                                                        NUMBER                           SUPERSEDES

                                                        50.060.01                        50.060.01
                                                                                         2/1/2019
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE                   PAGE NUMBER
                                                        3/21/2025
                                                        REVIEWED DATE                    Pages 1 of 2

 Division                                               Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                        ORS 240.145(3); 240.205(2)
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Transition of Agency Head
                                                        Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
The director of the Department of Administrative Services (DAS) may enter into an agreement with an outgoing
agency head to outline duties and expectations for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days. The purpose of
the agreement is to provide a smooth, orderly transfer of duties from an outgoing agency head to an incoming
agency head.

APPLICABILITY
Outgoing agency head in unclassified executive service.

ATTACHMENTS
None

DEFINITIONS
Refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) Subject to written agreement and approval by the DAS Director, an outgoing agency head may be
       retained for up to 30 calendar days to facilitate the transition to the new agency head.

            (a) The outgoing agency head may continue to perform some, but not all of the duties and
                responsibilities of the agency head’s position.

            (b) During the 30-day transition period, the outgoing agency head will be reassigned to another
                position within the agency.

            (c) Due to the reassignment of duties, responsibilities and authority, the outgoing agency head’s
                compensation shall be reduced to be commensurate with the reassignment.

            (d) The outgoing agency head shall continue to be subject to all state rules and policies applicable
                to unclassified executive service employees.



Policy No: 50.060.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 2
           (e) Oregon state government will not pay for outplacement services such as career coaches,
               resume writing, retraining and transition guides.

           (f) It is incumbent upon the agency’s incoming agency head to monitor the passage of time to
               ensure the overlap of employment between the outgoing agency head and the incoming agency
               head does not exceed 30 calendar days.

           (g) The agreement between the outgoing agency head and the DAS Director, shall be formalized in
               writing prior to going into effect and be available for the Department of Justice’s review. A copy
               of the agreement shall be saved within the state’s human resources information system. A copy
               shall be made available upon request by the Chief Human Resources Office.

           (h) The incoming agency head becomes the agency appointing authority.

   (2) The written agreement shall include the following information as approved by the DAS Director:

           (a) The dates for the transition period, not to exceed 30 days.

           (b) The position occupied during the transition period and compensation of the outgoing agency
               head.

           (c) The duties, responsibilities and expectations to be fulfilled by the outgoing agency head during
               the transition period, which demonstrate value to the agency.

           (d) Location where the duties and responsibilities will be performed during the transition period.

           (e) Notification that the outgoing agency head is still subject to all statutes, rules, policies, and
               confidentiality agreement, where applicable, and that outplacement services will not be
               provided.

           (f) Continued employment rights as stated in (4) of this policy.

   (3) When appropriate, the DAS Director shall consult with applicable boards or commissions.

   (4) Nothing in the agreement between an outgoing agency head and the DAS Director shall create a right of
       continued employment. The state reserves the right to immediately terminate the outgoing agency
       head’s employment as provided in State HR Policy 40.035.01, “Unclassified Service Employment and
       Termination.” The outgoing agency head reserves the right to discontinue employment at any time.




Policy No: 50.060.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                     Page 2 of 2
