                                                         NUMBER                          SUPERSEDES

                                                         50.010.06                       50.010.06
                                                                                         02/01/2019
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                         EFFECTIVE DATE                  PAGE NUMBER
                                                         01/01/2025
                                                         REVIEWED DATE                   Pages 1 of 3

 Division                                                Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                         Executive Order No. 17-01; ORS 240.145(3), 240.250
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                 APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Employee Health and Wellness
                                                         Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government is committed to promoting and supporting health and wellness of all state
employees. State employees are state government’s most valuable resource. Healthy, empowered and
engaged employees are integral to the effective delivery of state services.

APPLICABILITY
All employees, including limited duration and temporary employees, board and commission members,
volunteers, and others working in an agency, where not in conflict with an applicable collective bargaining
agreement.

ATTACHMENTS
Procedures and Implementation Guidance for Agency Wellness Plans

DEFINITIONS
Refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) This policy requires the establishment of a Coordinating Council.

            (a) The Coordinating Council shall provide guidance to agencies, Public Employees Benefit Board
                (PEBB), and the Governor’s Office on evidence-based worksite wellness.

            (b) The Coordinating Council shall consist of at least 15 individuals and be comprised of the
                following:

                   (A) Agency leaders, including leadership from Oregon Health Authority’s Public Health
                       Division, Public Employees’ Benefit Board, Department of Administrative Services, the
                       Governor’s Office; and

                   (B) At least two union representatives from each of the two largest unions; and

Policy No: 50.010.06 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 3
                   (C) A representative from a smaller labor union.

           (c) The Coordinating Council will develop and implement a state employee communications plan
               addressing the primary drivers of increased health care costs, including tobacco use, poor
               nutrition, lack of physical activity, and employee stress and depression.

   (2) The Public Employees’ Benefit Board shall appoint a state Wellness Manager.

   (3) The state Wellness Manager shall:

           (a) Facilitate the Coordinating Council;

           (b) Assist with developing and implementing the Coordinating Council’s communications plan;

           (c) Provide training and technical assistance on evidence-based worksite wellness to agency
               wellness committees;

           (d) Serve as the Coordinating Council’s liaison with PEBB, the Oregon Health Authority’s Public
               Health Division, the Department of Administrative Services (DAS), state agency leaders and the
               Governor’s Office;

           (e) Develop a system for accountability and evaluation of state agency efforts to improve state
               agency employee health and wellness;

           (f) Be responsible for compiling data and reporting progress on improvements to state agency
               employee health and wellness using metrics determined by the Wellness Manager in
               cooperation with the Coordinating Council, PEBB and the Public Health Division;

           (g) May recommend statewide policies to DAS, in conjunction with the Coordinating Council, which
               support agency health and wellness.

   (4) Agencies shall take the following measures to promote and support the health and wellness of state
       employees:

           (a) Develop, implement, and evaluate workplace health and wellness related efforts;

           (b) Offer training and opportunities to ask clarifying questions on this policy and any agency-
               specific policy related to workplace health and wellness programs;

           (c) Create a guide and procedures or modify the sample guide and procedures attached to this
               policy for employees who may face health and wellness risks and challenges.

           (d) Provide employees a copy of or electronic access to State HR Policy 50-010-06, Employee
               Health and Wellness;

Policy No: 50.010.06 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                Page 2 of 3
           (e) Complete a two-year agency wellness plan detailing the agency’s objectives and activities to
               assess and improve employee health in accordance with this policy.

   (5) State agency wellness plans shall be reviewed by the Coordinating Council and the state Wellness
       Manager.

           (a) Agencies shall update their wellness plans every two years and report on implementation
               progress to the state Wellness Manager by April 1 in even numbered years.

   (6) PEBB-covered employers that are not state agencies, including Oregon public universities or local
       governments, may participate in actions described in this policy and may request technical assistance.




Policy No: 50.010.06 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                              Page 3 of 3
