                                                        NUMBER                           SUPERSEDES

                                                        60.000.10                        60.000.10
                                                                                         1/1/2024
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE                   PAGE NUMBER
                                                        3/21/2025
                                                        REVIEWED DATE                    Pages 1 of 6

 Division                                               AUTHORITY
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                        ORS 240.145(3); 240.240; 240.250; 240.551
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Special Leaves with Pay
                                                        Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government recognizes the direct and indirect benefits of providing certain kinds of paid leave to
employees.

APPLICABILITY
All employees except temporary employees and employees represented by a collective bargaining agreement.

ATTACHMENTS
None

DEFINITIONS
Family member: Includes the employee’s spouse or domestic partner and the following:
   • Parent (includes biological, adoptive, stepparent, foster parent, or legal guardian, or the parent of the
       employee’s spouse/domestic partner, or the employee’s parent’s spouse/domestic partner, or in loco
       parentis)
   • Child (includes biological, adopted, stepchild, or foster child; spouse/domestic partner’s child, or the
       child’s spouse/domestic partner; or a child for whom the employee stood in loco parentis)
   • Sibling or stepsibling or the sibling’s or stepsibling’s spouse or domestic partner
   • Grandparent or the grandparent’s spouse or domestic partner
   • Grandchild or the grandchild’s spouse or domestic partner
   • Aunt or uncle
   • Niece or nephew
   • Members of the immediate household
   • An individual who is related by affinity to the employee

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) Bereavement Leave

            (a) Bereavement Leave with Pay


Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 6
                   (A) A full-time employee may request up to 24 hours of paid bereavement leave per
                       occurrence to discharge customary obligations when a family member dies. The
                       employee may use this leave intermittently or in a block of time.

                         (i)    The agency will prorate the amount of leave for part-time employees, employees
                                who job share, and part-time seasonal employees.

                        (ii)    The agency will review the use of intermittent leave without pay and the use of
                                leave under this section on a case-by-case basis.

                        (iii)   Refer to State HR Policy 60.000.03, Oregon Family Leave Act, for additional
                                information related to Bereavement Leave under OFLA.

                   (B) Customary Obligations

                         (i)    “Customary obligations” means making funeral arrangements, meeting with
                                representatives of a mortuary or funeral service, buying items for a funeral
                                service, and attending the funeral and burial.

                        (ii)    “Customary obligations” does not include visiting relatives, handling estate
                                issues, selling property, etc.

                   (C) An employee may request bereavement leave once per occurrence (i.e., one leave
                       request for any single occurrence of death). If more than one death occurs in a family at
                       the same time, simultaneous funeral service may be in order. In such a circumstance the
                       agency will allow only one 24-hour entitlement.

                   (D) If an employee needs additional leave after the funeral service and burial, they may ask
                       to use vacation, sick, or personal business leave, compensatory time or leave without
                       pay. Refer to the applicable leave policies for further information that applies to such
                       circumstances.

                   (E) When an employee uses leave for a family member who was related by affinity, the
                       agency may require the employee to attest in writing that the employee and the family
                       member had a significant personal bond that, when examined under the totality of the
                       circumstances, is like a family relationship.

           (b) Donated Bereavement Leave

                   (A) An employee may be eligible to receive up to 40 hours of donated bereavement leave to
                       be used consecutively. To qualify for donated bereavement leave, the employee must
                       exhaust all paid bereavement leave and all accumulated leave including sick and
                       vacation leave, compensatory time, and personal business leave.

                   (B) Donated bereavement leave can impact long- and short-time disability benefits. Before
                       applying for donated leave while receiving disability benefits, consult the agency payroll
                       office for information on how donated bereavement leave will impact the employee’s
                       specific circumstances.



Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                   Page 2 of 6
                   (C) An employee must submit a written request to the appointing authority or designee in
                       order to request donated bereavement leave.

                   (D) Donated bereavement leave is transferred to the requesting employee’s sick leave
                       account. Donated hours are based on the conversion of the donor’s salary rate to sick
                       leave hours at the recipient’s base rate of pay. Sick leave with pay is considered “time
                       worked” for leave accrual and holiday pay.

                   (E) Leave transferred to the requesting employee’s sick leave account will not exceed 40
                       hours. The agency must ensure the transfer of the appropriate numbers of hours.

                   (F) Donations within the same agency:

                           (i) An employee who works within the same agency as the recipient may voluntarily
                               donate available vacation leave, compensatory time, or both, to an eligible
                               employee’s sick leave account.

                           (ii) The donor must submit written request to donate leave to an eligible employee.
                                The donor’s request must be processed as per agency program procedures
                                before the transfer of leave occurs. A donor may not donate time they have lost
                                due to leave accrual limits set by state HR rule or policy.

                           (iii) An employee must donate leave in one-hour increments to a recipient. The
                                 agency will base the amount of donated hours on the conversion of the donor’s
                                 salary rate to sick leave hours at the recipient’s base rate of pay.

                           (iv) Donated hours transfer from the donor’s accrued leave as needed by the
                                recipient. If total leave donated exceeds the total amount of leave accepted, the
                                unaccepted leave remains in the donor’s accrued leave balance.

                   (G) Donations between agencies:

                           (i) An employee in a different agency may, subject to the approval of both agencies,
                               donate leave to an eligible recipient by completing and signing the Interagency
                               Donated Leave form (PD 625) and submitting it to the agency’s appointing
                               authority or designee.

                           (ii) An appointing authority or designee may disallow the transfer of donated leave
                                between agencies for legitimate business reasons including, but not limited to,
                                restrictions on the use of dedicated funding sources.

                           (iii) The agency may request documentation substantiating use of donated
                                 bereavement leave.




Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                   Page 3 of 6
   (2) Exceptional Performance Recognition Leave with Pay

           (a) An appointing authority may award leave with pay to an employee in recognition of exceptional
               performance. The leave may be awarded to:

                   (A) FLSA-exempt employees who work a professional work week and demonstrate
                       extraordinary performance of work outside normal work hours. Such performance is
                       compensable only in the form of leave.

                   (B) Any employee, regardless of FLSA status, whose achievement or demonstrated
                       performance is deemed by the appointing authority or designee to be an outstanding
                       contribution to agency goals and objectives.

           (b) This leave is not an entitlement. The agency must not automatically award such leave each
               fiscal year. An agency must award such leave judiciously.

           (c) The appointing authority must maintain records that show the reason for awarding such leave
               and the amount of time awarded and taken. The manager and the employee must agree on
               when the leave is taken.

           (d) Restrictions on exceptional performance recognition leave with pay:

                   (A) This leave is compensable only in time off, not pay.

                   (B) Such leave may not exceed 40 hours in a fiscal year.

                   (C) Such leave is not cumulative from fiscal year to fiscal year.

                   (D) Such leave is not transferable between agencies.

                   (E) An employee is eligible to use exceptional performance recognition leave with pay after
                       completion of six months of state service.

           (e) Agency heads and salaried board and commission members, including the chairs of such board
               or commissions who report directly to the Governor, may request exceptional performance
               recognition leave from the Department of Administrative Services Director. Supporting rationale
               must accompany each request.

   (3) Day of Leave

           (a) When authorized by the Governor, the state grants eight hours of paid leave to full-time
               employees. The agency will prorate the amount of leave for part-time employees, employees
               who job share, and part-time seasonal employees.

           (b) Day of Leave may be taken any day during the calendar year, subject to prior manager approval.


Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                Page 4 of 6
           (c) Day of Leave cannot be taken in hourly increments; it must be taken in one block of time.

   (4) Job Interview and Testing Leave with Pay - Management may grant a reasonable amount of time for a
       state government job interview or test.

   (5) Personal Business Leave with Pay:

           (a) An employee is granted up to 24 hours of personal business leave with pay each fiscal year.

                   (A) A full-time employee receives 24 hours of personal business leave with pay after
                       completion of six months of state service.

                   (B) The agency will prorate the amount of leave for part-time employees, employees who job
                       share, and part-time seasonal employees.

           (b) With management’s approval, an employee may use personal business leave for any purpose.

           (c) The state must restore unused personal business leave to an employee who separates and
               returns within the same fiscal year to a position covered by this policy, and who works six
               months during the fiscal year.

           (d) An employee, after completion of six months of state service, who accepts an appointment in
               another state agency, retains any unused personal business leave.

   (6) Pre-Retirement Planning Leave with Pay. Management may grant up to 28 hours of pre-retirement
       planning leave with pay within three years of the chosen retirement date for retirement planning
       activities.

   (7) Natural Disaster Leave

           (a) Employees who have lost their primary residence, lost use of their primary residence or lost
               access to their primary residence due to a natural disaster are eligible for a maximum of 80
               hours of Natural Disaster leave, prorated for part-time employees.

           (b) Employees who have used the 80 hours of Natural Disaster leave may request donated leave,
               not to exceed the amount needed to cover the absence.

   (8) Critical Incident Leave

           (a) Any employee who, during the performance of their work, is directly involved in an incident of
               on-duty violence (directly involved means physically attacked or physically intervening in an
               attack of a staff member), will not be required to complete their work day and the employee will
               be paid for the remainder of their shift.

           (b) The employee shall be allowed time off immediately after the incident to recover from any
               impairment or disability caused by the on-duty violence. Such leave shall be charged against
               any accumulated time the employee has earned. The employee may decide the type of


Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                Page 5 of 6
               accumulated time against which this leave shall be charged. If the employee does not have
               accumulated time earned, the employee may utilize authorized leave without pay.

           (c) The agency may request medical documentation of the need for such leave after three days.




Policy No: 60.000.10 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                              Page 6 of 6
