                                                        NUMBER                           SUPERSEDES

                                                        50.050.01                        50.050.01
                                                                                         1/1/2024
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE                   PAGE NUMBER
                                                        3/21/2025
                                                        REVIEWED DATE                    Pages 1 of 5

 Division                                               Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                        ORS 240.145(3), 240.250, 240.855; State HR Policy
                                                        20.005.20, Fair Labor Standards Act; and Enterprise
 Policy Owner
                                                        Information Services (EIS) information technology and
                                                        information security policies
 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Working Remotely
                                                        Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government encourages working remotely where it is a viable option that benefits both the
employee and the agency.

APPLICABILITY
All employees where not in conflict with an applicable collective bargaining agreement.

ATTACHMENTS
None

DEFINITIONS
WORKPLACE OPTIONS:

Central Workplace: The agency-assigned location of the position, not the employee. It is the permanent
assignment of the employee’s position within Oregon and is not their residence.

Alternate Workplace: A workplace alternate to the central workplace that is within the employee’s residence, or
in a location requested by the employee and approved by the agency.

Temporary Workplace: A place where the agency work assignment is expected to last less than a year. A
temporary workplace would also include meeting sites held away from the central or alternate workplace.

Mobile Workplace: A workplace alternate to the central workplace that changes frequently based on project
work assignments, such as field work (e.g., maintenance, surveying, inspection, construction).

Residence: The place where the employee personally resides.

WORKTYPE OPTIONS:

Full-time Remote Work: All essential functions of the position are performed from an alternate workplace 100%
of the time.


Policy No: 50.050.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 5
Hybrid Remote Work: Essential functions of the position are performed from both the central workplace and an
alternate workplace. Business needs may require the employee to come into the central workplace or perform
mobile work on a regular or periodic basis.

Mobile Work: The essential functions of the position require the employee to perform work in a variety of
locations. Mobile work may encompass a district, region or other geographic location. Employees performing
mobile work may periodically work from a central, alternate or temporary workplace.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
Use of alternate work options promote the health and safety of Oregonians; ensures the optimal use of
resources for agencies; ensures that cultural, equity and accessibility issues are addressed in a meaningful
way; and supports flexibility and work-life balance for employees. It also offers the opportunity to be more
flexible in interactions with Oregonians and decreases an agency's impact on the environment.

   (1) An agency director shall administer this policy as the agency’s policy on working remotely.

   (2) Employees may work remotely on a regular or periodic basis upon approval of their supervisor.

   (3) An employee’s salary and employer-sponsored insurance coverage do not change as a result of remote
       work.

   (4) Initiation of Remote Work.

           (a) Current employees or their supervisor can initiate interest in exercising remote work.

           (b) Employee requests for remote work must be documented in the state human resources
               information system and responded to within 30 calendar days.

           (c) Considerations when determining the suitability of remote work include, but are not limited to:

                   (A) Positions that are assigned duties suitable for working remote. Positions with limited
                       need for direct supervision and access to hard-copy files; limited need for face-to-face
                       contact with other employees, clients and customers; and limited need for access to the
                       agency’s resources.

                   (B) Employees who consistently demonstrate work behaviors that are well-suited to working
                       remote, including, but not limited to: self-motivation, self-discipline, the ability to work
                       independently, the ability to manage distractions, the ability to meet deadlines, and a
                       demonstrated record of meeting established performance expectations.

                   (C) Remote work meets the agency’s business and operational needs, as well as those of
                       the agency’s customers and the employee.

   (5) Agreement.


Policy No: 50.050.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                   Page 2 of 5
           (a) Employees who work remotely will acknowledge and document the following in the state
               human resources information system:

                   (A) This Working Remotely policy.

                   (B) The security classification of information used.

                   (C) The asset tracking survey.

                   (D) Remote work guidelines.

           (b) Agreements for remote work will be maintained in the state human resources information
               system.

           (c) During the recruitment process, agencies are encouraged to indicate in the job posting whether
               the position requires in-person attendance or is eligible for remote work.

           (d) An agreement to work remote may be discontinued by either party at any time. When an
               employer rescinds an agreement, it must provide the employee the reasons for the rescission in
               writing. An employer shall only rescind remote work on the basis of sound business reasons.
               Once the written explanation has been provided, the employer may rescind the remote work
               agreement with a minimum of 10 calendar days’ notice.

           (e) The employee maintains a clean and safe alternate workspace. The employee must
               immediately report to the supervisor any injury that occurs during work hours. The state is not
               responsible for loss, damage, repair, replacement or wear of personal property.

           (f) Employees will not hold business visits or in-person meetings with an agency’s customers or
               co-workers at the alternate workplace unless approved by the employee's supervisor.

           (g) The agency may require employees who work remote to share workspace with other employees
               when at their central workplace.

           (h) Employees working remotely will adhere to all expectations, standards, and policies as if they
               were performing work at their agency’s central workplace, including adherence to performance
               standards and measurements.

           (i) The employee shall promptly notify their supervisor when the employee is unable to perform
               work assignments due to equipment failure, safety hazards or other unforeseen circumstances.

   (6) Security.




Policy No: 50.050.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                 Page 3 of 5
           (a) Supervisors will ensure the employee has received information security training as well as
               agency and EIS policies and protocols related to software, hardware, and information and data
               security.

           (b) Employees will ensure the appropriate level of security for state information and equipment in
               transit or at the alternate workplace.

   (7) Technology, Devices and Office Supplies.

           (a) Employees who work outside of state-owned or leased buildings shall have internet coverage,
               allowing the employee to perform assigned duties and participate in phone conferences and
               virtual meetings during scheduled work hours. Internet connectivity provided through state-
               owned equipment may be arranged upon agency approval.

           (b) The agency provides basic technology equipment and related devices necessary for the
               employee to perform their assigned job duties at the alternate workplace. The equipment and
               devices are for agency business only and must comply with the agency’s desktop security and
               maintenance policies and practices. Employees will not conduct state business on the following
               personal equipment: phones, computers, laptops or other information-storing devices.

                   (A) Exceptions to section (b) are subject to the approval of the State Chief Operating Officer.

                   (B) Agencies are responsible for paying for equipment to be shipped to and from the
                       employee.

           (c) Additional technology, devices and office supplies may be provided to the employee at the
               agency’s discretion or in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).

           (d) Employees may access the State Surplus Property warehouse with management approval.

           (e) Employees working remotely will follow DAS Risk Management guidance when driving for state
               business, and DAS Fleet and Parking Services guidance and rules for use of state vehicles.

   (8) Travel reimbursement between the central, alternate or mobile work locations will be reimbursed as
       outlined in the Oregon Accounting Manual.

   (9) Working Outside of Oregon

           (a) Approval of out-of-state remote work will be made on a case-by-case basis and may be
               informed by factors that include legal compliance obligations of the other state. Remote work
               outside of the 50 United States of America and the District of Columbia is prohibited.

           (b) When an employee’s alternate workplace is outside of Oregon and is expected to last more than
               30 calendar days, the agency’s human resources department designee must request a workers’
               compensation insurance assessment from DAS Risk Management to determine if out-of-state

Policy No: 50.050.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                  Page 4 of 5
               workers’ compensation coverage is needed. If additional coverage is needed, DAS Risk
               Management arranges for the coverage.

           (c) When an employee’s alternate workplace is outside of Oregon and is expected to last more than
               30 calendar days, they must complete a new working remotely agreement in the state human
               resources information system.




Policy No: 50.050.01 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                             Page 5 of 5
