COPILOT GENERAL USAGE POLICY
NUMBER: 107-004-200
EFFECTIVE DATE: June 16, 2026
DIVISION: Enterprise Information Services (State CIO)
POLICY OWNER: Privacy and Artificial Intelligence
INTERNAL OR STATEWIDE POLICY: Statewide
LAST REVIEWED DATE: June 16, 2026
SUPERSEDES: Updated Interim Guidance on Generative AI Access and Usage memo
(Feb.10, 2026)
PAGE NUMBER: Page 1 of 4
REFERENCE/AUTHORITY:

   •   ORS 276A.203; 276A.206
   •   Information Asset Classification Statewide Policy 107-004-050
   •   Copilot General Usage Statewide Procedure: 107-004-200_PR

APPROVED SIGNATURE:


_____________________________________________
Terrence Woods, State Chief Information Officer

Statement
This policy outlines directives and best practices for the safe, effective use of Microsoft
Copilot Chat, Microsoft 365 (M365) Copilot, and Teams Premium by state employees.

Applicability
This policy applies to all state agencies as defined in ORS 174.112, and includes any
board, commission, department, office or other entity within the Oregon executive
department. The following agencies are excluded:

   •   Secretary of State
   •   State Treasurer




Policy No: 107-004-200      Effective: 6/16/2026; Reviewed: 6/16/2026               Page 1 of 4
Definitions
Artificial intelligence (AI): a machine-based system that is capable, for a given set of
human-defined objectives, of making predictions, recommendations or decisions
influencing real or virtual environments and uses machine- or human-based inputs.
Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI): a software system that generates new content,
data, or other output, including images, video, audio, and text, autonomously. It uses
algorithms and models to create new and original information from patterns and
information it learned previously from a given set of data. Large language models and
foundation models are both GenAI. GenAI is distinguished from other AI systems by its
primary function of creating new content rather than solely classifying, predicting, or
recommending from predefined categories.
Human in the loop (HITL): Human in the loop refers to a system or process in which a
human actively participates in the operation, supervision and decision-making of an
automated system. In the context of AI, HITL means that humans are involved in the AI
workflow to ensure accuracy, safety, accountability and ethical decision-making.
Proprietary or protected material: material subject to ownership rights or legal
restrictions on use, disclosure, reproduction, or distribution, including copyrighted works,
licensed content, and trade secrets, as well as confidential or proprietary business
information designated as restricted by the organization.
Public meeting: a convening of the governing body of a public body, for which a quorum is
required, to make a decision or deliberate toward a decision on any matter, and that is
open to the public. (ORS 192.610(5); ORS 192.630(1))

General Information
Copilot Chat, M365 Copilot and Teams Premium are generative AI tools from Microsoft, at
least some of which are available to most state employees. This policy covers M365
Copilot, Copilot Chat, and Teams Premium, and provides full integration across Microsoft
365 applications like Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, and Teams to enhance
productivity.
Copilot Chat (included with Microsoft 365 license): a conversational tool available to most
state employees which is helpful with generating ideas, searching the web, or reviewing
single documents.
M365 Copilot (additional license): an enhanced version of Copilot integrated across the
M365 suite (including Word, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams) and which has direct
access to employee data in Teams, Outlook, SharePoint, and OneDrive.




Policy No: 107-004-200    Effective: 6/16/2026; Reviewed: 6/16/2026                Page 2 of 4
Teams Premium (additional license): an enhanced version of Teams that summarizes
meetings, captures action items, and provides deep analysis on meetings when turned on.
Users of Copilot must follow two specific directives:
    1. Appropriate data use: Only appropriate Level 1-2 data may be input into Copilot.
        a. Data or information input into Copilot, either as a document attachment or
           directly entered text, must be properly classified. Users may not intentionally
           input content that is or would be classified as level 3 or 4 unless specific
           permission for their use case is received from Enterprise Information Services
           (EIS).
        b. Use of proprietary or protected content, including licensed materials,
           subscription databases, and paid research, may only be used in accordance
           with the applicable license requirements.
    2. Appropriate human review: Copilot outputs require human review, and AI should
       not take the place of human subject matter expertise. AI-generated content should
       be considered a “rough draft” and must receive sufficient human review before
       distribution or further action. The scope of the review should align with the nature of
       the content and its intended audience. Users may consult with their manager to
       determine the appropriate level of human review of Copilot outputs. In many cases,
       existing review processes will be sufficient, but it’s worth having the dialogue to
       confirm.

General User Responsibilities
    •   Review all Copilot output for accuracy and completeness. Users are responsible for
        the content of materials produced by Copilot that are subsequently used or
        distributed.
    •   Use only the enterprise-security approved versions 1 of Copilot Chat and M365
        Copilot using their state credentials.
    •   Complete a state-provided AI training course through Workday before using M365
        Copilot. 2
    •   Classify any document used with Copilot in compliance with Statewide Policy 107-
        004-050 3.




1
  Look for the green shield icon when logged into your Oregon account to conﬁrm you are in a secure version
of Copilot.
2
  The current approved course available in Workday is “DAS – EIS Responsible AI for Public Professionals”.
3
  State of Oregon Information Asset Classiﬁcation Policy 107-004-050.pdf


Policy No: 107-004-200         Effective: 6/16/2026; Reviewed: 6/16/2026                         Page 3 of 4
   •   Copilot output should be reviewed and classified based on its content, beginning
       with the sensitivity level of the input data as a default starting point.
   •   Promptly report any anomalies (to M365.Info@das.oregon.gov and your own
       agency), such as:
          o Copilot generates language that is offensive, discriminatory, harmful, or
              otherwise unsuitable for workplace use.
          o Copilot appears to use or reference information the user did not provide or
              did not expect it to access.
   •   Never use Copilot output:
          o Without human review. Hitting send on an email or Teams chat containing AI
              output indicates that human review by the sender has occurred, and that the
              sender stands behind the content.
          o As the sole source of reference.
          o To impersonate individuals or organizations.
          o As the sole basis in making critical decisions or providing legal, medical, or
              financial advice.
          o In any way that violates laws, regulations, organizational policies, or
              contractual obligations.
   •   Users must not input proprietary, copyrighted or otherwise protected material into
       Copilot unless they have written authorization or licensing to use the materials with
       generative AI tools.
   •   Real-time transcription or translation of public meetings using Teams Premium
       requires written approval from your agency director or their designee. For public
       meetings requiring language translation, agencies should continue to use qualified
       human interpreters to ensure accuracy and compliance with legal requirements.

The agency director or their delegate should review the “Copilot Recommended Use
Guidance” attachment to this policy. Agencies are encouraged to supplement it to provide
clear direction to employees that supports the responsible use of Microsoft Copilot,
including agency-specific standards for human review.




Policy No: 107-004-200    Effective: 6/16/2026; Reviewed: 6/16/2026               Page 4 of 4
