                                                                                                 State HR Policy


       SUBJECT:     Definitions                                             NUMBER:                     10.000.01

       DIVISION:    Chief Human Resources Office                            EFFECTIVE DATE:             1/01/2024

       APPROVED: Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office




   POLICY                 This policy defines terms used throughout policies maintained by the Chief Human
   STATEMENT:             Resources Office. Additional terms are defined within specific state human resources
                          policies.

   AUTHORITY:             ORS 240.145; 240.250

   APPLICABILITY:         All State HR Policies unless otherwise defined in specific policies.

   ATTACHMENTS:            None

   DEFINITIONS:

(1)      Abolishment/establishment: simultaneous abolishment of a position and establishment of another
         position in a significantly different classification. Differs from reclassification primarily because the new
         job is: significantly different from the former one, usually requiring different knowledge and skills; or the
         change is sudden and intentional, rather than the gradual evolution of a position.
(2)      Academic year appointment: appointment of a person to a position which generally conforms to the
         academic year of mid-September to mid-June.
(3)      Administrator: the Chief Human Resources Officer or the Chief Human Resources Office (CHRO), of
         the Department of Administrative Services (DAS).
(4)      Agency: any department, independent board, council, bureau, institution or commission; all the
         positions which are under the same appointing authority; and a distinct entity for which a separate
         budget limitation or agency number is maintained.
 (5)     Agency head: an elected or appointed officer with the authority and responsibility to manage and
         operate a state agency, and who is accountable for appropriate outcomes.
 (6)     Allocation: assignment of a position to a classification.
 (7)     Appointing authority: as defined in ORS 240.015(2).
 (8)     Appointment: the hiring of a person into state service.
 (9)     Base pay: an employee’s regular monthly rate of pay. Base pay does not include differentials pay
         line exceptions, etc.
 (10)    Benchmark position: a classification that can be commonly found, defined, and used as a standard
         reference to which other positions can be compared, analyzed, and evaluated against.
(11)     Break in service: a separation from employment of more than 15 calendar days.
(12)     Bumping: displacement of one employee by another qualified employee in layoff situations.
(13)     Central Evaluation Team (CET): the team composed of agency and DAS staff, having responsibility to
         determine the relative value of work performed in each classification using the “point factor of job
Policy: 10.000.01                                      1 of 8                                    Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                      State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                        10.000.01



       evaluation” method.
(14)   Classification: as defined in ORS 240.015.
(15)   Classification plan: all classifications adopted by CHRO, the classification specifications, and the
       procedures and policies for keeping the classifications current.
(16)   Classification specification: a document that generally specifies:
       (a)      a class title,
       (b)      a general description,
       (c)      distinguishing features,
       (d)      characteristic duties, and
       (e)      a statement of minimum qualifications for a classification of state work.
(17)   Classified service: as defined in ORS 240.210.
(18)   Comparability of the value of work: as defined in ORS 292.951.
(19)   Compensation plan: the schedule of rates of pay for the various classes and titles in state service
       authorized by legislative action and adopted by CHRO.
(20)   Compensatory time: paid time off instead of cash payment for overtime worked.
(21)   Conciliation Service Division: a program of the Employment Relations Board.
(22)   Confidential employee: as defined in ORS 243.650(6).
(23)   Crossfill: the appointment of an employee to a position in a different classification in the same salary
       range number.
(24)   Delegate: authorization for agencies to assume responsibility for designated CHRO functions.
(25)   Demotion: voluntary or involuntary movement of an employee, except temporary employees, from a
       position in one classification to a position in another classification having a lower salary range.
(26)   Deputy: the deputy or deputies of each executive or administrative officer specified in ORS 240.200(1)
       and ORS 240.205(1), (2), and (3) who are authorized to exercise that officer’s authority upon the officer's
       absence.
(27)   Developmental assignment: a reassignment of duties providing an employee opportunity to obtain skills
       and experience in order to meet the minimum qualifications and/or special requirements for classifications
       at a higher salary range.
(28)   Direct appointment: an alternate appointment of an applicant as defined in ORS 240.306(5)(b).
(29)   Director: the Director of DAS.
(30)   Disabled veteran: as defined in ORS 408.225.
(31)   Disposition reason: a standardized reason assigned to an applicant not moving forward in the
       selection process.
(32)   Domestic partner: One of the two individuals party to a civil contract described in ORS 106.300 to
       106.340 entered into in person between two individuals who are at least 18 years of age, who are
       otherwise capable and at least one of whom is a resident of Oregon.
(33)   Doublefill: the addition of a position that does not have budget authority (non-budgeted) and is
       not a job share.
(34)   Eligible list: a list of candidates qualified for a position.
Policy: 10.000.01                                      2 of 8                               Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                   State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                         10.000.01




(35)   Employment lists: eligible lists used as part of a recruitment process to fill vacancies include:
       (a)      a statewide injured worker list,
       (b)      agency layoff list,
       (c)      statewide layoff list,
       (d)      internal list,
       (e)      agency transfer list, or
       (f)      external list containing the names of persons eligible for employment.
(36)   Exempt employee: an executive, administrative or professional employee, as defined by the Fair Labor
       Standards Act (FLSA), not eligible for overtime.
(37)   Exempt service: as defined in ORS 240.200.
(38)   FLSA: Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and implementing federal regulations.
(39)   Flexible work schedule: a work schedule which varies either the number of hours worked or the starting
       and stopping times on a daily basis, but not necessarily each day.
(40)   Full time: a work schedule of normally 40 hours during the assigned work week or any average of 40
       hours per week over the course of a monthly pay period.
(41)   Geographic relocation or transfer: a relocation or transfer to a new work site at least 50 miles farther
       from the employee’s former residence than the old work site was from the residence. Example: if the old
       work site was three miles from the former residence, the new work site must be at least 53 miles from the
       former residence.
(42)   Grievance; classified unrepresented, management, unclassified and exempt service employee: a
       written notice or appeal of a personnel action taken by management alleged to be arbitrary, contrary to
       law or taken for political reasons.
(43)   Hay Method: the Hay Guide Chart Profile Method of job evaluation.
(44)   Human resource management: the procurement, development, utilization, and maintenance of the
       workforce.
(45)   In loco parentis: an individual who stood in place of a parent when a person was a child.
(46)   Initial appointment: the first time an employee is appointed to a position in state service or the
       appointment of a former employee whose reemployment eligibility or layoff rights have expired, excluding
       temporary employees.
(47)   Injured worker: an employee who sustained an injury:
       (a)      while employed in an Executive Branch agency,
       (b)      that was determined to be compensable pursuant to ORS Chapter 656, and
       (a)      who has not exercised or waived reinstatement and reemployment rights pursuant to ORS
                659A.043 and 659A.046.
(48)   Intermittent work schedule: a work schedule based upon assigned work being available only on an
       irregular basis or a schedule the employer established in accordance with State HR Policy 60.000.15,
       Family and Medical Leave.
(49)   Irregular work schedule: a work schedule with the same starting and stopping times such as four,
       10-hour days.
Policy: 10.000.01                                   3 of 8                                   Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                    State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                          10.000.01



(50)   Job family: a specific field of work or study existing within a broader occupational group.
(51)   Job posting: a written notice of a recruitment which includes:
       (a)      summary of job duties;
       (b)      qualifications;
       (c)      salary;
       (d)      application deadline, if applicable; and
       (e)      any supplemental questions; or
       (f)      additional application requirements and instructions.
(52)   Job rotation: performance by an employee of a different work assignment, by mutual agreement, on a
       non-permanent basis, for an agreed-to-period of time.
(53)   Job share or Job-sharing position: as defined in ORS 240.015.
(54)   Labor Market benchmark: Benchmarks used to assess compensation competitiveness in the appropriate
       labor market.
(55)   Layoff: a reduction in workforce due to lack of work, curtailment of funds or reorganization, except for
       reasons specified in ORS 240.555.
(56)   Leadwork: on a recurring daily basis, an employee is assigned the following duties:
       (a)      prioritize and assign tasks to efficiently complete work;
       (b)      provide direction to workers concerning work procedures and performance standards;
       (c)      review the completeness, accuracy, quality and quantity of work; and
       (d)      provide informal feedback of employee performance to the supervisor.
(57)   Limited-competitive appointment: an appointment to a non-competitive classification made by limiting
       the competition for appointment to economically disadvantaged persons.
(58)   Limited duration: a position established in an agency’s budget for a study, project or workload need, not
       to exceed two years.
(59)   Limited duration appointment: a non-status appointment to meet workload needs.
(60)   Management service: as defined in ORS 240.212.
(61)   Managerial employee: as defined in ORS 243.650(16).
(62)   Maximum salary rate: the top step or highest rate of pay in a classification’s salary range.
(63)   Merit increase: a salary increase awarded to an employee whose performance equals or exceeds the
       established standards.
(64)   Merit pay system: allows for the orderly progression of an employee’s pay from the established
       minimum to maximum of the salary range based on documented meritorious performance.
(65)   Minimum qualifications: the minimum experience, training, knowledge and/or skill that must
       be met for a candidate to be considered for a position.
(66)   Minimum salary rate: the first step or lowest rate of pay in a classification’s salary range.
(67)   Misallocation: an error in the allocation of a position, an employee, or both, to the classification system.
(68)   Non-competitive appointment: an appointment to a non-competitive classification made by an
       appointing authority.
Policy: 10.000.01                                     4 of 8                                 Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                   State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                         10.000.01



(69)   Non-exempt employee: an overtime-eligible employee covered by the FLSA.
(70)   Non-status appointment: an at-will appointment to a position with no trial service. The employee may
       be terminated at any time for any reason unless otherwise protected by law.
(71)   Occupational group: a broad field of work or study consisting of multiple related job families.
(72)   Official representative: any person designated or authorized by an employee to act on behalf of the
       employee in employment matters.
(73)   Overfill: the employment of a person in a classification higher than the established classification level of
       the position.
(74)   Part time: means an assigned work schedule less than full time.
(75)   Part-time employee: an employee who works less than full time.
(76)   Performance Accountability & Feedback check-in: a quarterly meeting between a supervisor
       and their employee to provide understanding to the employee regarding expectations and
       performance.
(77)   Permanent appointment: the permanent appointment of a person into a position.
(78)   Permanent positon: a full-time or part-time position normally expected to last indefinitely subject to
       availability or permanent funding.
(79)   Personnel action: any documented action taken which affects an employee or position.
(80)   Personnel file: individual employee documents as defined in OAR 166-300-0040(9).
(81)   Personnel records: the official documents and materials related to an individual employee.
(82)   Position: a group of duties, authorities and responsibilities assigned to a position by an appointing
       authority.
(83)   Position description: A form established by CHRO which describes, for each position, its duties,
       authorities and responsibilities assigned by management, and identifies the essential functions of the job.
(84)   Preference: preference over all applicants for an available and suitable position in an appropriate agency
       of the state Executive Branch except for:
       (a)      injured worker, and employees entitled to appointment to the position pursuant to the terms of
                a collective bargaining agreement entered prior to Oct. 3, 1989.
(85)   Principal assistant: part of unclassified service as defined in ORS 240.205(4).
(86)   Promotion: the movement of an employee, except temporary employees, from a position in one
       classification to a position in another classification having a higher salary range number.
(87)   Protected classes: those characteristics of people afforded protection under Title VII of the Civil Rights
       Act, federal and state law.
(88)   Public record: any record containing information relating to the conduct of the public’s business which is
       prepared, owned, used or retained by CHRO or other agency.
(89)   Reallocation: the change of a position or employee from one classification to another classification due
       to class plan revision or to correct a misallocation.
(90)   Reasonable accommodation: as defined in ORS 659A.118.
(91)   Reclassification: a classification change based on assignment of significantly different duties with
       continuation of the same general knowledge and skill requirements. The change in duties usually occurs
       gradually over a period of time and results in a change to lower or higher classification.
Policy: 10.000.01                                   5 of 8                                   Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                    State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                         10.000.01



(92)   Reclassification downward: the change of a position, an employee, or both, from one classification to
       another classification with a lower salary range or rate.
(93)   Reclassification equal: the change of a position, an employee, or both, from one classification to
       another classification with the same salary range or rate.
(94)   Reclassification upward: the change of a position, an employee, or both, from one classification to
       another classification with a higher salary range or rate.
(95)   Recognition program: a program which provides awards or other acknowledgement to employees
       based on performance or personal achievement.
(96)   Recognized service date: the date reflecting an employee’s time in state service, with appropriate
       adjustment, to determine the employee’s vacation accrual rate.
(97)   Recruitment: a process to solicit a pool of qualified applicants for hiring consideration.
(98)   Red circle: a procedure in which an employee’s previous rate of pay above the top step of a new salary
       range is retained upon downward reclassification or reallocation, provided the employee remains in the
       reclassified or reallocated position until the rate is equal to or exceeded by the top step of the new salary
       range. A red-circled salary does not receive cost of living increases.
(99)   Reemployment: the return of a former state employee, excluding temporary employees:
       (a)      within two years from the date of separation in good standing,
       (b)      return from layoff,
       (c)      return from voluntary demotion, demotion in lieu of layoff, or
       (d)      return following downward reclassification
(100) Referral list: a list of candidates who meet the minimum qualifications of a specific classification.
(101) Regular employee: an employee who completes a specified trial service period following appointment to
      a position in the classified unrepresented or management service, excluding limited duration
      appointments.
(102) Regular status: status given to a management service or classified unrepresented employee upon
      successful completion of a designated trial service period. Employees in management service and
      classified unrepresented limited duration appointments do not serve a trial service.
(103) Regular work schedule: a work schedule of eight hours per day, 40 hours per week.
(104) Representation code: a code comprised of three to four characters used to identify a position belonging
      to a particular employment statutory category, type of state service and assignment to a labor
      organization.
(105) Represented positon: a position represented by a labor union or association.
(106) Resignation: a voluntary separation from state service.
(107) Salary eligibility date: the date an employee is eligible for consideration for a merit increase.
(108) Salary range: a range of pay established for each classification, normally including a minimum rate, a
      maximum rate and intermediate rates or salary steps.
(109) Salary range number: the number, along with any alphabetical suffix character, which identifies salary
      relationship among a classification within compensation plans.
(110) Salary step: a number assigned to each rate of pay within a salary range, normally beginning with step 1
      for the lowest rate and increasing in numerical sequence within the salary range.

Policy: 10.000.01                                    6 of 8                                   Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                     State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                           10.000.01



(111) Seasonal appointment: the appointment of a person to a position which occurs, terminates, and recurs
      periodically or regularly.
(112) Seasonal position: a position, as defined in ORS 240.425, which occurs, terminates, and recurs
      periodically and regularly regardless of its duration.
(113) Seasonal service position: a period of service encompassing a complete season as designated by an
      appointing authority.
(114) Service credit: a numerical computation taking into account length of service or merit rating, or
      combination of both, used to determine order of individual employee layoff.
(115) Special merit increase: a one step, unscheduled, salary increase awarded to employees for
      extraordinary performance or for other valid reasons.
(116) Special qualifications: qualifications added to minimum qualifications necessary at the time of
      appointment based on specific duties of the position to be filled which may include, but are not limited to,
      bilingual skills or, licenses, permits and certifications required by law.
(117) Supervisory employee: as defined in ORS 243.650(23).
(118) Temporary appointment: the non-status appointment of a person for the purposes of meeting
      emergency, nonrecurring or short-term workload needs of an agency. A temporary employee shall be
      exempt from all provisions of the State Personnel Relations Law and Administrative Rules except where
      noted.
(119) Temporarily restricted injured worker: an injured worker who is reasonably expected to fully recover
      and released by a health care practitioner to return to light duty assignment prior to return to the
      worker’s pre-injury position.
(120) Termination: the involuntary separation of an employee from state service.
(121) Test: any method of giving a rating to a job applicant or of selecting from among the applicants on an
      eligible list.
(122) Transfer: the lateral movement of an employee, excluding temporary employees:
       (a)      from one position to another position in the same classification, or
       (b)      from a position in one classification to a position in another classification with the same salary
                range number or rate.
(123) Trial service: the final phase of the hiring process when an employee is required to demonstrate, by
      conduct and actual performance of duties, the qualification and fitness for the position. Trial service
      does not apply to limited duration appointments unless granted by collective bargaining agreements.
(124) Unclassified “Executive” service: as defined in ORS 240.205.
(125) Underfill: the employment of a person in a classification lower than the established classification level of
      the position.
(126) Unrepresented position: a position eligible for official representation by a union or association, but for
      which representation has not been elected.
(127) Veteran: as defined in ORS 408.225.
(128) Voluntary demotion: movement of an employee to a position in a classification with a lower salary
      range or rate, not necessitated by layoff circumstances and not reflecting discredit on the employee.
(129) Work day: a period within 24 consecutive hours.


Policy: 10.000.01                                     7 of 8                                   Effective: 1/01/2024
                                                State HR Policy

  Definitions                                                                                   10.000.01



(130) Work week: generally, a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours during seven consecutive 24-
      hour periods, or as otherwise allowed by FLSA.
(131) Work out of class: an assignment of an employee to perform the majority of the duties, with authority
      and responsibilities, of a position classified at a higher salary level.




Policy: 10.000.01                                 8 of 8                                Effective: 1/01/2024
