             DEPARTMENT OF
             ADMINISTRATIVE
             SERVICES
                                                                                       Statewide Policy




SUBJECT:     Employee Security                                   NUMBER:                   107-004-053

DIVISION: | Enterprise Information Strategy and Policy           EFFECTIVE DATE:                   7/30/07


APPROVED:

                                   A, Bath
POLICY/             Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to protect information assets and reduce the
PURPOSE:            risk of human error and misuse of enterprise information and equipment.

                    Policy: Each agency will develop and enforce a policy that:
                          e   Requires pre-employment screen of employees commensurate with the
                              value and risk of the information assets they will have access to;
                          e   Establishes accountability and responsibility to all employees having access
                              to the agency’s information assets;
                          e   Establishes processes for timely removal of all permissions for employees
                              having access to information assets and return of agency assets at
                              termination or reassignment; and
                          e   Establishes awareness training for employees.


                    Compliance
                    Each agency may, based upon its individual business needs or legal requirements,
                    exceed the security requirements put forth in this document but must, at a minimum,
                    achieve the security objectives defined in this document.


                    State agencies have six (6) months from effective date of this policy to comply with
                   this policy.


AUTHORITY:         This policy is established under the authority of 2005 Oregon Laws Chapter 739, OAR
                   125-800-005, 125-800-0010 and 125-800-0020.



APPLICABILITY:      This policy applies to all Executive Branch agencies as defined in ORS 174.112,
                    except as provided in ORS 182.122 and 182.124 and OAR 125-800-0020 (3)(a) and
                    (b) and (4) as they apply to the State Board of Higher Education and the Oregon
                    University System, the Oregon State Lottery, Secretary of State, State Treasurer, and
                    the Attorney General.


ATTACHMENTS:        None.


DEFINITIONS:        Asset: Anything that has value to the organization.


                    Information:    Any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material,
                    regardless of its physical form or characteristics.


                    Information Security:     Preservation of confidentiality, integrity and availability of
                    information, including authenticity, accountability, non-repudiation, and reliability.
                                         Statewide Policy


POLICY NAME: Employee Security                                       POLICY NUMBER: 107-004-053



                Integrity: A security principle that makes sure that information and systems are not
                modified maliciously or accidentally.

                Risk: The likelihood of a threat agent taking advantage of a vulnerability and the
                resulting business impact. A risk is the loss potential or probability that a threat will
                exploit the vulnerability.

                Security Policy: Documentation that describes senior management's directives
                toward the role that security plays within the organization. It provides a framework
                within which an organization establishes needed levels of information security to
                achieve the desired confidentiality, availability and integrity goals. A policy is a
                statement of information values, protection responsibilities, and organization
                commitment managing risks.

GUIDELINES:     Agency management should ensure that employees and volunteers:
                      e   Are briefed on compliance with agency policies;
                      e   Sign for the receipt of agency policies:
                            o   Acknowledging receipt of the policies; and
                            o   Acknowledging their understanding and agreement to comply with
                                agency policies.
                      e   Receive user awareness training;
                      e   Are aware of their roles and responsibilities for the protection of information
                          assets.


                Agencies should have documented procedures for the review and classification of
                appropriate security levels for staff members whose duties have changed due to
                promotion, demotion, or reassignment.

                Voluntary Termination
                Agencies should follow normal access control policies and procedures whenever an
                employee voluntarily leaves state service or accepts a position or job rotation,
                developmental or work out of classification assignment, within the agency or with
                another agency. In some cases, agencies may wish to remove access to information
                assets at the time an employee informs them of his/her intention to leave or accept a
                job rotation, developmental or work out of classification assignment.

                Involuntary Termination
                Access to information systems and assets should be removed prior to or at the same
                time the employee is notified of an involuntary action. Involuntary termination is
                disciplinary termination or removal from trial service, layoff, or for temporary actions
                such as duty station at home, suspension with or without pay or administrative leave
                pending an investigation.
