                                                        NUMBER                           SUPERSEDES

                                                        60.000.20                        60.000.20
                                                                                         6/1/2024
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE                   PAGE NUMBER
                                                        3/21/2025
                                                        REVIEWED DATE                    Pages 1 of 4

 Division                                               Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                        ORS 240.145(3); 240.250; 240.551; 652.210
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Alternative Leave Provisions
                                                        Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
State agencies may grant alternative sick leave and vacation benefits to accomplish recruitment objectives
while applying practices and procedures consistent with the pay equity law.

APPLICABILITY
Management service and unclassified executive service employees, excluding temporary employees.

ATTACHMENTS
None

DEFINITIONS
Compensation: Wages, salary, bonuses, benefits, fringe benefits and equity-based compensation.

Education: The act or process of acquiring knowledge through systematic instruction, especially through an
accredited academic institution.

Equal-pay analysis: An evaluation process to assess and correct disparities among employees who perform
work of comparable character across the Executive Branch. Note: recommendations for the correction of
existing compensation disparities are subject to the review and approval of Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) executive leadership.

Experience: The process of gaining knowledge or skill from doing an activity, particularly by holding a position
in a specific professional field or occupation.

Internal assessment: An evaluation by an agency to determine the appropriate, equitable salary rate for a
candidate or an employee relative to the current workforce performing work of a comparable character in
terms of education, training and experience or other factor(s) specified in the pay equity law. Factors by which
individual employees may be compensated differently for work of a comparable character include: a seniority
system; a merit system; workplace location; travel (if necessary and regular for the employee); education;
training; experience; or a combination of these factors, if the combination of factors accounts for the entire
compensation differential.


Policy No: 60.000.20 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 4
Merit system: An orderly progression of an employee’s pay from the established minimum to maximum rate of
a compensation grade based on documented performance. May include salary adjustments resulting from
promotions, special merit increases or other personnel actions.

New hire: The appointment of any person into state service, regardless of status (e.g., temporary, permanent,
limited duration, seasonal, etc.). Not included in this definition are reemployments, return from layoff or retiree
appointments within two years of retirement.

Protected class: A group of persons distinguished by race, color, religion, sex, including pregnancy, gender
identity, sexual orientation, national origin, marital or family status, veteran status, disability, or age.

Seniority system: Refers to an employee’s length of state service and how it relates to their salary, benefits
and employment rights (e.g., step increases, vacation leave accrual, layoff rights, etc.).

Training: The process by which someone is taught the skills needed for a job. Training may be on-the-job
experiences, systematic practice or informal instruction.

Travel, if necessary and regular: An employee required to travel from one place to another as part of their
regularly scheduled work assignment; not included in this definition is the regular commute, to and from an
employee’s home and workstation.

Work of comparable character: Work that requires substantially similar knowledge, skill, effort, responsibility
and working conditions in the performance of work, regardless of job description or job title. Note: the state’s
job profiles often provide the best means available for determining which jobs constitute work of a comparable
character. At times however, a sub-set of jobs within a job profile, particularly a broad job profile such as
Operations and Policy Analyst, needs to be identified for proper comparison purposes.

Working conditions: Includes work environment, hours, time of day, physical surroundings and potential
hazards encountered by an employee.

Workplace locations: The geographic location(s) (e.g., city/county) where an employee is assigned to work.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) Agency heads may consider alternative sick leave and vacation benefits as part of employment
       negotiations to provide additional incentives when recruiting a candidate outside of state government.
       Agencies must complete an internal assessment as defined by this policy prior to offering alternative
       leave. Normally, alternative leave provisions are appropriate for higher level or specialized positions
       where recruitment difficulties are due to any one of the following conditions:

           (a) a significantly below-market compensation grade for a specific job profile, where changing the
               compensation grade on a timely basis is impossible

           (b) a position in a generic job profile being extremely sensitive to market pay fluctuations

           (c) the nature of the assignment (e.g., added expectations or workload for a short to medium
               period) which makes the position especially unattractive to potential candidates

           (d) the specialized education, training, or experience requirements of the position
Policy No: 60.000.20 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                     Page 2 of 4
   (2) Agencies are prohibited from:

           (a) seeking the salary history of an applicant from the applicant or from a current or former
               employer of the applicant

           (b) screening job applicants based on current or past compensation

           (c) determining the compensation for a position based on the current or past compensation of an
               employee who is new to state service.

   (3) The following leave alternatives shall be appropriate substitutes for standard leave provisions:

           (a) Sick Leave: An advance of up to 240 hours may be granted for immediate use during the first 30
               months of employment. The hours may be drawn upon but not increased during this period.

           (b) Vacation Leave:

                   (A) An increased rate of accrual may be granted at the rate of 11.34 hours per month to a
                       maximum of 19.34 hours per month. Subsequent accrual rates will not occur until the
                       employee meets the required years of service for standard leave accrual rates as
                       outlined in State HR Policy 60-000-05, Vacation Leave.

                   (B) The hours may be eligible for immediate use upon supervisory approval.

                   (C) An advanced vacation benefit may be granted, not to exceed the hours accrued in the
                       first year.

                           (i) The hours will be applied against the employee’s accrual.

                           (ii) This vacation benefit may be used only once and only during the first year of
                                employment.

                           (iii) This vacation benefit is transferrable to a receiving agency (refer to (4) below).

                           (iv) Upon separation during the first year of employment, the employee loses any
                                hours advanced and not used or donated.

   (4) Any alternative leave granted shall not result in an inequity with current employees performing work of
       a comparable character.

   (5) Agencies must retain documentation of the internal assessment and determination of the alternative
       leave granted.




Policy No: 60.000.20 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                      Page 3 of 4
   (6) An agency must report to the Chief Human Resources Office (CHRO) when granting increased vacation
       rates. The report must include the employee’s name and OR number, job profile, business title, benefit
       eligibility date, any prior alternative leave provisions awarded to the employee and a statement of
       justification. Multiple employees’ alternative leave provisions may appear in the same report to the
       CHRO.

   (7) Exceptions to this policy shall be sent to the DAS Chief Human Resources Officer for approval.

   (8) If the employee transfers from the agency granting alternative leave provisions, balances may be
       transferred consistent with State HR Policy 60.000.05, Vacation Leave and 60.000.01, Sick Leave with
       Pay.

   (9) Other paid leave benefits are subject to State HR Policy 60.000.10, Special Leaves with Pay.




Policy No: 60.000.20 | Effective: 3/21/2025 Reviewed:                                                 Page 4 of 4
