                                                                              Statewide Policy Manual



SUBJECT:    Mobile Communication Device Usage While Driving         NUMBER: 107-001-016
DIVISION:   Office of the Director                                  EFFECTIVE DATE: 01-01-2010
APPROVED:

            Scott Harra, Director (signature on file with DAS Business Services)


POLICY / PURPOSE:             The purpose of this policy is to promote safe driving practices by
                              employees and prevent job-related motor vehicle crashes due to use of
                              Mobile Communication Devices (MCDs) while driving.

                              Employees who drive state vehicles or who drive personal vehicles while
                              conducting state business must comply with all federal and state laws
                              that govern the use of MCDs while driving. This policy encourages
                              drivers to keep MCD use at a minimum while their vehicles are in motion.
                              An employee should use a hands-free accessory if he or she absolutely
                              must utilize an MCD while driving on state business. Do not make calls
                              while driving, and try not to receive them. Set your MCD to receive voice
                              mail while you drive. If you must take a call (or make one), find a safe
                              place to pull over.

AUTHORITY:                    ORS 811.507 and HB 2377 [2009 Session]

APPLICABILITY:                This policy applies to all DAS employees who use MCDs while driving for
                              state business. Other agencies may follow this policy at their option.

                              This policy does not apply to:
                                  A person who provides public safety services or emergency
                                     services as a volunteer, or while acting in the scope of
                                     employment as a public safety officer as defined in ORS 348.270;
                                  Operators of authorized emergency transit vehicles;
                                  Persons who use an MCD for the purpose of farming or
                                     agricultural operations;
                                  A person who activates or deactivates the MCD or a function of
                                     the device;
                                  A person who operates an amateur radio and holds a valid
                                     amateur radio operator license issued by the Federal
                                     Communications Commission;
                                  A person who operates a two-way radio device that transmits
                                     radio communication transmitted by a station operating on an
                                     authorized frequency within the citizens’ or family radio service
                                     bands in accordance with rules of the Federal Communications
                                     Commission;
                                   A person who uses one-way voice communication while engaging
                                     in any of the following activities:
                                      A. Operating a motor vehicle in the scope of the person’s
                                      employment;
                                      B. Providing transit services to people with disabilities or senior
                                      citizens; or
                                          Statewide Policy

Mobile Communication Device Usage While Driving                         POLICY NUMBER: 107-001-016
                                       C. Participating in public safety or emergency service activities.

ATTACHMENTS:                   Exhibit A - Please refer to Exhibit A (Acceptable Use Agreement)
                               attached to this policy which is the agreement each employee will sign
                               agreeing to comply with the policy.

DEFINITIONS:
                               Business Emergency
                               A business reason for using a state-issued MCD without a hands-free
                               device.
                               Hands-free Accessory
                               An attachment to an MCD, or built-in feature or an addition to an MCD
                               (whether or not permanently installed in a motor vehicle) that enables a
                               person to keep both hands on the steering wheel while using the MCD.
                               Mobile Communication Device (MCD)
                               A text-messaging device or a wireless, two-way communication device
                               that receives and transmits voice or text, including Nextel and any similar
                               device and mobile Global Positioning System (GPS).
                               Texting
                               The act of sending a written message using a MCD such as a cell phone,
                               BlackBerry or GPS.

GUIDELINES:

I.     General Use at work:
         • Use privately owned MCDs sparingly in the workplace, since these devices are for
             personal communications.
         • Agencies may assign MCDs to employees to enable them to conduct state business
             according to Policy 107-001-015.
         • You may use an MCD as a pager for receipt of voice or text messages.
         • Agencies may assign MCDs to employees primarily for business use, with occasional
             personal use as identified on a monthly basis and reimbursed through payroll deduction.
             Employees must protect MCDs and return them when employment ends.
         • Agencies will monitor monthly charges for use of MCDs by employees. Managers may
             determine consequences of excessive or inappropriate use by their employees.
         • This policy prohibits use of camera phones in restrooms and areas where confidential
             information is located.

II.    Safety
          • Avoid or terminate stressful or emotional phone calls while driving.
          • Avoid using MCDs in unsafe or high risk situations while driving, e.g., construction sites,
              near heavy machinery, school zones, areas of greater foot traffic, etc. This guideline
              pertains to personal use and official use.
          • Avoid using MCDs while driving on state-related business.
          • Never look up phone numbers while driving, except when the vehicle is stationary.
          • Keep your eyes on the road while driving.
          • Never use an MCD in adverse weather or in difficult traffic conditions.

III.      Compliance
          • Any employee who violates this policy or engages in unauthorized use of a MCD is
                                        Statewide Policy

Mobile Communication Device Usage While Driving                       POLICY NUMBER: 107-001-016
             subject to disciplinary actions, up to and including dismissal.
         •   Any employee who operates a motor vehicle while using a MCD without a hands-free
             accessory commits a class D traffic violation, which is punishable upon conviction by a
             fine of $90 as provided in ORS 153.018(2).
         •   Each occurrence of a violation is a separate offense.
         •   Payment of fines is the responsibility of the employee.

PROCEDURES:

Step Responsible Party       Action
1.    Agency Director         Each agency director has the following responsibilities:

                              •   Ensure that the agency has sufficient safeguards in place to restrict
                                  expenditures for state information assets to those necessary for
                                  the conduct of official business. The director must also ensure that
                                  sufficient internal controls are in place.
                              •   Ensure appropriate use of state information assets and compliance
                                  with applicable rules and policies.
                              •   Ensure that the state pays only charges incurred by authorized
                                  users for official business.

2     Division               The division administrator is responsible for enforcement of this policy;
      Administrator          the administrator must do the following:

                              •   Inform employees of this policy and obtain employees’ signatures
                                  on Acceptable Use Agreement as it applies to use of state
                                  information assets in the scope of employment.
                              •   Provide a good example of state information asset use, and guard
                                  against excessive or inappropriate use of such assets by
                                  employees.
                              •   Maintain accurate record of violations of this policy.
                              •   Implement a maintenance program and immediate withdrawal from
                                  service of any computer or device with mechanical defects; regular
                                  inspection and maintenance.
3     Employee               All employees who drive a vehicle on state business are responsible
                             for:

                              •   Using an MCD hands-free device when placing or taking calls
                                  while driving.
                              •   Ensuring that a vehicle is not in motion when entering information
                                  into a GPS.
                              •   Following this policy and acknowledging understanding by signing
                                  an Acceptable Use Agreement.
                              •   Understanding that sanctions, including dismissal, may result from
                                  the unauthorized use of the MCD.
                              •   Understanding the minimum standards that relate to charges and
                                  use of MCDs according to Policy 107-001-015.
                                        Statewide Policy

Mobile Communication Device Usage While Driving                     POLICY NUMBER: 107-001-016


Exhibit A

                               Acceptable Use Agreement



I, _______________________________________acknowledge I am being granted use of state
information assets in order to carry out my work and agree that my use of such assets will be
conducted in a manner that ensures compliance with this Policy, Policy 107-01-010, and Policy
107-001-015 and by Oregon Accounting Manual Policy 40.10.00 PO and by Statewide Policy
107-001-016, Mobile Communication Device Usage While Driving.

I agree that any personal use of any provided Mobile Communication Device, will be identified
on a monthly basis, and reimbursed to the agency through Payroll Deductions. I further
understand that any personal use is also subject to taxation of the user.

I understand my usage will be monitored, without further warning, and that inappropriate usage
may be cause for disciplinary action, including but not limited to reprimand, suspension, and
termination of employment or Civil or criminal prosecution under federal and state law.

I understand that I must use a hands-free accessory when driving a motor vehicle while using a
Mobile Communication Device, except where exclusions apply. Any traffic violations or payment
of fines imposed for violation of any applicable laws are my personal responsibility.

I understand that the use of state information assets may be revoked at any time without further
warning.

I acknowledge, I have read and understood this document by signing below. I further
understand it is my responsibility to seek advice regarding any questions I might have regarding
this document or policy prior to my signing.




         Employee Signature                   Witness (Manager) Signature               Date


             Print Name                               Print Name                        Date
