                                                         NUMBER                          SUPERSEDES

                                                         50.090.01                       50.090.01
                                                                                         02/13/2023
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                         EFFECTIVE DATE                  PAGE NUMBER
                                                         01/01/2025
                                                         REVIEWED DATE                   Pages 1 of 5

 Division                                                Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                         ORS 659A.200 to 659A.224
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                 APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Managing Improper Governmental Conduct
                                                         Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government is committed to providing employees and volunteers with an environment that
encourages and enables reporting of known or suspected improper governmental conduct. This policy
addresses reporting such conduct and how state government manages reports.

APPLICABILITY
All employees, including temporary employees, and volunteers where not in conflict with an applicable
bargaining agreement.

ATTACHMENTS
None

DEFINITIONS
Abuse of authority: the deliberate, wrongful, and improper use or diversion of public resources or the
excessive or improper use of a state official’s position.

Gross waste of funds: a deliberate, wrongful, and improper use of public funds for other than their lawful or
designated use resulting in significant financial detriment to the state.

Improper governmental conduct: conduct involving abuse of authority, gross waste of funds, mismanagement,
specific danger to public health or safety, or violations of state or federal law, rule or regulation.

Mismanagement: serious misconduct having the effect of actually or potentially undermining state
government’s ability to fulfill its public mission.

Reasonably believes is evidence: in addition to other circumstances bearing on the reasonableness of the
belief, an employee has personal knowledge of facts tending to establish the violation of law, rule or regulation,
or the existence of mismanagement, abuse of authority, gross waste of funds, or substantial and specific
danger to public health or safety.




Policy No: 50.090.01 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 5
Substantial and specific danger: a specified risk of serious injury, illness, peril, or loss, to which the exposure
of the public is a gross deviation from the standard of care or competence which a reasonable person would
do in the same situation.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) Oregon state government is committed to an environment where:

           (a) the opportunity exists to report activities reasonably believed to be improper governmental
               conduct

           (b) reports of improper activities are investigated, and action taken, if necessary

           (c) persons who report are free from retaliation.

   (2) Reporting. An employee or volunteer who reasonably believes they have evidence of improper
       governmental conduct (allegedly involving government officials or specific practices) may report the
       violation immediately to the Chief Human Resources Office (CHRO), law enforcement, a manager, an
       agency human resources office or a licensed attorney (when seeking legal advice on the alleged
       violation).

           (a) A report of improper conduct may be made orally or in writing.

           (b) Reports of improper conduct may be submitted anonymously.

           (c) An oral or written report of improper conduct should contain the following:

                   (A) the names of all parties involved, including witnesses

                   (B) a specific and detailed description of the suspected or actual violation

                   (C) the date and time period in which the violation allegedly occurred.

   (3) Investigation. The agency’s human resources office or agency head, as applicable, will coordinate and
       conduct or delegate responsibility for the investigation.

           (a) The agency will assess all reports of improper conduct, and if appropriate, initiate an
               investigation.

           (b) All parties are expected to cooperate with the investigation.

           (c) The subject of an investigation may have rights under state policy or applicable collective
               bargaining agreement. The investigator, as necessary, may confer with their agency’s human
               resources staff or the CHRO pertaining to those rights.


Policy No: 50.090.01 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                    Page 2 of 5
           (d) While an investigation is pending, the name of the reporting employee will not be disclosed
               without written consent of the reporting employee, unless otherwise required by law.

   (4) Retaliation. This policy prohibits retaliation against an employee who, in good faith, reports a violation.

           (a) State officials and employees are prohibited from retaliating, including imposing discipline,
               against any employee because the employee has, in good faith, reported improper
               governmental conduct. However, employees may be subject to discipline if they know the
               information they disclose is false, if the employee discloses the information with reckless
               disregard for its truth or falsity, or if the information disclosed relates to the employee’s own
               improper governmental conduct.

           (b) Any employee who believes they are the subject of retaliation for reporting improper
               governmental conduct shall advise their supervisor or agency human resources office. The
               party receiving the report shall take steps to investigate and address complaints of retaliation.

   (5) Penalties. Agencies will assess conduct in violation of this policy and take appropriate disciplinary
       action.

           (a) Employees engaging in conduct in violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary action
               up to and including dismissal.

           (b) Volunteers engaging in conduct in violation of this policy may have their volunteer position
               ended.

           (c) Managers or supervisors who know or should know of conduct in violation of this policy and
               who fail to report such behavior or fail to take prompt, appropriate action may be subject to
               disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.

           (d) Any employee who is found to have retaliated against an employee for reporting, in good faith,
               improper governmental conduct may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
               dismissal.

   (6) Specific reporting protections and defenses provided under relevant law relating to improper
       governmental conduct.

           (a) In response to an official request, no employee shall be prohibited from discussing, either
               specifically or generally, with any member of the Legislature, legislative committee staff acting
               under direction of a member of the Legislature, any member of the elected governing body of a
               political subdivision in the state or any elected auditor of a city, county or metropolitan service
               district, the activities of:

                   (A) The state or any agency or political subdivision in the state; or




Policy No: 50.090.01 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                   Page 3 of 5
                   (B) Any person authorized to act on behalf of the state or any agency or political subdivision
                       in the state.

           (b) No employee shall be disciplined or threatened with discipline for disclosing any information
               that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of:

                   (A) a violation of any federal or state law, rule or regulation by the state, agency or political
                       subdivision

                   (B) mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority or substantial and specific
                       danger to public health and safety resulting from action of the state, agency or political
                       subdivision

                   (C) subject to ORS 659A.212(2), the fact that a person receiving services, benefits or
                       assistance from a state agency or subdivision, is subject to a felony or misdemeanor
                       warrant for arrest issued by the state of Oregon, any other state, the federal government,
                       or any territory, commonwealth or governmental instrument of the United States.

           (c) No employee shall be required to give notice prior to making any disclosure under sections (a)
               and (b).

           (d) No employee shall be discouraged, restrained, dissuaded, coerced, prevented or otherwise
               interfered with when making disclosures or engaging in discussions of matters protected under
               sections (a) and (b). The remedies provided under sections (a) and (b) are in addition to any
               remedy provided to an employee under other applicable laws.

           (e) An employee’s good faith and objectively reasonable belief of a violation of federal, state or
               local law, rule or regulation by the employee’s employer shall be an affirmative defense to a civil
               or criminal charge related to the disclosure by the employee of lawfully accessed information
               related to the violation, including information that is exempt from disclosure as provided in ORS
               192.311 to 192.478 or by state policy, if the information is provided to:

                   (A) a state or federal regulatory agency

                   (B) a law enforcement agency

                   (C) a manager employed by the state

                   (D) an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Oregon if a confidential
                       communication is made in connection with the alleged violation described in this
                       section (e) and in furtherance of rendering legal services to the employee that are
                       subject to ORS 40.225.

           (f) An employee may not assert the affirmative defense described in section (e) if the information:


Policy No: 50.090.01 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                     Page 4 of 5
                   (A) is disclosed or re-disclosed by the employee or at the employee’s direction to a party
                       other than the parties listed in section (e)

                   (B) is stated in a commercial exclusive negotiating agreement with the state, provided that
                       the agreement is not related to the employee’s employment with the state

                   (C) is stated in a commercial nondisclosure agreement with the state, provided that the
                       agreement is not related to the employee’s employment with state.

           (g) The affirmative defense described in section (e) is available to an employee who discloses
               information related to an alleged violation by a co-worker or supervisor described in section (e)
               if the disclosure relates to the course and scope of employment of the co-worker or supervisor.

           (h) The affirmative defense described in section (e) may not be asserted by an employee who is an
               attorney or by an employee who is not an attorney but who is employed, retained, supervised or
               directed by an attorney if the information disclosed pursuant to section (e) is related to the
               representation of a client.

           (i) Disclosure made under sections (b), (c), and (e) herein are subject to the rules of professional
               conduct established pursuant to ORS 9.490.

           (j) Subject to the rules of professional conduct established pursuant to ORS 9.490, a public
               employee who is an attorney may report to the Attorney General the employee’s knowledge of a
               violation of federal, state or local law, rule or regulation.

           (k) Disclosure of information pursuant to section (e) does not waive the attorney-client privilege or
               affect the applicability of any exemption from disclosure of a public record under ORS 192.311
               to 192.478.

           (l) Notwithstanding section (e), information protected from disclosure under federal law, including,
               but not limited to, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (P.L.
               104-191), may be disclosed only in accordance with federal law.

   (7) Other Opportunities for Reporting. This policy addresses reporting allegations of improper
       governmental conduct, as described above. The policy does not replace other opportunities for
       employees to bring complaints or grievances regarding their employment or work environment, such as
       the employee’s rights under a collective bargaining agreement or other policies.

   (8) Policy Notification. Agencies must give all employees and volunteers a copy or the electronic location
       of this policy.




Policy No: 50.090.01 | Effective: 01/01/2025 Reviewed:                                                 Page 5 of 5
