                                                         NUMBER                          SUPERSEDES

                                                         30.000.20                       30.000.20
                                                                                         02/01/2019
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                         EFFECTIVE DATE                  PAGE NUMBER
                                                         11/01/2024
                                                         REVIEWED DATE                   Pages 1 of 3

 Division                                                Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                         ORS 291.204 and ORS 291.227
 Policy Owner


 CHRO Policy Unit
 SUBJECT                                                 APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Span of Control
                                                         Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office


POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government is committed to strategically aligning its workforce to comply with the agency-
established maximum supervisory ratios.

APPLICABILITY
All state agencies over 100 employees.

ATTACHMENTS
Span of Control Toolkit

DEFINITIONS
State Agency or Agency: an agency, board, or commission in the Executive Branch whose most recent
legislatively adopted budget shows the agency employs more than 100 employees. Refer to ORS 291.227 for
excluded agencies.

Employee: a person holding a full or part time permanent, limited duration, temporary, seasonal, or academic
position in state service.

Supervisory Role: an employee other than an agency head that meets the definition of supervisory employee
as defined in ORS 243.650 that is designated in the Chief Human Resources Office (CHRO) human resources
information system with supervisory responsibility.

Non-Supervisory Role: an employee designated in the CHRO human resources information system that is not
in a supervisory role.

Maximum Supervisory Ratio: the ratio determined by an agency based on factors specified in ORS 291.227
and established in an agency’s legislatively adopted budget. The maximum supervisory ratio applies to the
agency as a whole, not to individual divisions or sections.

Actual Supervisory Ratio: the ratio of persons in non-supervisory roles to persons in a supervisory role
calculated from the agency’s total number of active people recorded in the CHRO human resources
information system.

Policy No: 30.000.20 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 3
Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

POLICY
   (1) Calculation of Actual Supervisory Ratio:

           (a) Total supervisors include all employees and vacant positions designated as supervisory
               excluding the agency head.

           (b) Total non-supervisors include all employees and vacant positions designated as non-
               supervisory.

           (c) The calculation of the actual supervisory ratio is the total number of non-supervisory employees
               and vacant non-supervisory positions in the agency divided by the total number of supervisory
               employees and vacant supervisory positions in the agency.

   (2) Establishing Agency Maximum Supervisory Ratio: Agencies must determine their own maximum
       supervisory ratio for consideration by the Legislature by starting from a baseline ratio of 1 to 11 and
       adjusting upward or downward based on some or all of the following seven factors:

           (a) Safety of the public or of state employees - If the work of the agency presents a high risk to the
               safety of the public or of state employees, the span of control may narrow and may require
               more supervisors. Conversely, a low risk to the safety of the public or of state employees may
               widen the span of control and may require fewer supervisors.

           (b) Geographical location of the agency’s employees - A dispersed work force may narrow the
               span of control and may require more supervisors, while a geographically close workforce may
               widen the span of control and may require fewer supervisors.

           (c) Complexity of the agency’s duties - If the nature of the work is complex, the span of control
               may narrow and may require more supervisors. A less complex nature of work may widen the
               span of control and may require fewer supervisors.

           (d) Industry best practices and standards - An agency that can demonstrate there are industry best
               practices and standards that support a greater or lesser span of control may consider those
               industry best practices and standards when developing their maximum supervisory ratio.

           (e) Size and hours of operation of the agency - A large agency or an agency with greater hours of
               operation may require a wider span of control and may require fewer supervisors while a
               smaller agency or an agency with fewer hours of operation may have a narrower span of control
               and may require more supervisors.

           (f) Unique personnel needs of the agency - This includes the agency’s use of volunteers or
               seasonal or temporary employees, or the exercise of supervisory authority by agency
               supervisory employees over personnel who are not agency employees. Unique is defined as
               being individualized; limited in occurrence to a given class or agency; not typical; unusual.
Policy No: 30.000.20 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                 Page 2 of 3
                   (A) An agency with a greater number of unique personnel needs may require a narrower
                       span of control with more supervisors while an agency with fewer unique personnel
                       needs may have a wider span of control and require fewer supervisors.

           (g) Financial scope and responsibility of the agency - An agency with a high financial scope and
               responsibility may require a narrower span of control and more supervisors while an agency
               with a lower financial scope and responsibility may require a wider span of control and fewer
               supervisors.

   (3) Span of Control Report to the Legislature:

           (a) As part of the agency biennial budget process agencies will prepare a report to the Joint
               Committee on Ways and Means that establishes an appropriate maximum supervisory ratio for
               the agency.

           (b) Agencies will provide a copy of the report to all labor organizations that represent employees of
               the agency before the report is submitted to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means.

   (4) Quarterly Report: DAS CHRO will publish a quarterly report with the actual supervisory ratios and
       maximum supervisory ratios for each agency. Agencies will receive notification of their actual
       supervisory ratios two weeks prior to the quarterly report being published to allow for corrective
       staffing changes.

   (5) Unless approval has been granted by DAS CHRO, an agency may not fill any supervisory position when
       the actual supervisory ratio is greater than the maximum supervisory ratio at the time the quarterly
       report is published or until such time the agency can demonstrate to DAS CHRO the agency is within
       their maximum supervisory ratio.

   (6) Maximum Supervisory Ratio Exemptions:

           (a) An agency must request approval from DAS CHRO to hire one or more additional supervisory
               employees when the agency’s actual supervisory ratio is greater than the agency maximum
               supervisory ratio included in the agency’s legislatively adopted budget.

           (b) The request must articulate the basis for the request by using some or all of the factors set
               forth in subsection (2) of this policy.

           (c) Determination for granting the request will be based on some or all of the factors set forth in
               subsection (2) of this policy.

           (d) DAS CHRO will notify all labor organizations that represent employees of the state agency of the
               intent to grant the request to hire one or more additional supervisory employees at least five
               business days before granting the request.


Policy No: 30.000.20 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                 Page 3 of 3
