                                                         NUMBER                          SUPERSEDES

                                                         60.000.15                       60.000.15
                                                                                         01/01/2024
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                         EFFECTIVE DATE                  PAGE NUMBER
                                                         07/01/2024
                                                         REVIEWED DATE                   Pages 1 of 9

 Division                                                REFERENCE
 Chief Human Resources Office                            Federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), as
                                                         amended, 29 USC § 2601et seq; federal regulations 29 CFR
 Policy Owner                                            Part 825; the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as
                                                         amended (including the ADA Amendments Act), 42 USC §
                                                         12101 et seq; the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), as
 CHRO Policy Unit                                        amended, 29 USC § 201 et seq; and the Uniform Services
                                                         Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), as
                                                         amended, 38 USC §4301 et seq.
 SUBJECT                                                 APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Federal Family and Medical Leave Act
                                                         Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office
 (FMLA)

POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government provides leave to employees according to the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act
(FMLA).

APPLICABILITY
All employees, where not in conflict with an applicable collective bargaining agreement.

ATTACHMENTS
Health Care Provider Certification
FMLA Military Healthcare Certification (PD 615B)
Qualifying Exigency Certification (PD 615C)
Insurance benefits guide
Additional policy attachments by leave-type
     A. FMLA Serious Health Condition
     B. FMLA Parental leave
     C. FMLA Military Caregiver leave
     D. FMLA Qualifying Exigency leave

DEFINITIONS
Employee: A person holding a full or part time permanent, limited duration, temporary, seasonal, or academic
position in state service.

Agency: includes the appointing authority, the human resource staff, and individuals designated by the
appointing authority to administer the agency’s Family and Medical leave program.

Federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA): federal law that protects an employee’s absence from work
under certain conditions.

Leave Year: 52 weeks beginning the Sunday immediately preceding the first day of leave. Refer to section 6(d)
for FMLA Military Caregiver leave.



Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 9
Paid Leave Oregon: an insurance program administered by the Oregon Employment Department that provides
up to 14 weeks of paid leave for qualifying conditions and protects an eligible employee’s absence from work.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

NOTE: Subsequent sections of the policy include other definitions relevant to the FMLA leave type.

POLICY
   (1) An agency is required to notify an employee of their rights under FMLA when requested by the
       employee or when agency management learns that protected leave may be needed. Federal law
       prohibits retaliating against an employee with respect to hiring or any other term or condition of
       employment because the employee asked about, requested or used any type of FMLA leave.

   (2) An agency grants an eligible employee up to 12 weeks (no less than 480 hours for a full-time employee
       who works 40 hours per week) of protected time off under FMLA for the purposes listed in the chart
       below. Except for military caregiver leave, an employee’s FMLA leave entitlement is limited to 12 weeks
       per leave in a leave year, no matter how many different leave-types are used.

                                                    Qualifying purposes under FMLA

   To tend to the employee’s own serious health condition

   To tend to the serious health condition of the employee’s:

    • Spouse

    • Parent: the employee’s biological or adoptive mother or father, or an individual who stood in loco
      parentis1 (in place of a parent) when the employee was a child.

    • Child: The employee’s biological, adopted, foster or stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of an employee
      standing in loco parentis. The child must be 17 years of age or younger. The age limit does not apply if
      the child is incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability under the ADA as interpreted
      by the EEOC per 29 C.F.R. § 825.122(d) (2) at the time FMLA leave is to commence.


   Parental leave: to care for the employee’s newborn, newly adopted child, or newly placed foster child.

   Qualifying Exigency leave: to attend to qualifying exigencies when the employee’s spouse, parent, son, or
   daughter is on active duty or called into active duty in support of a contingency operation for the military.

   Military Caregiver leave: [Up to 26 weeks (1040 hours for a full-time employee who works 40 hours per week)
   in a single 12-month period] to care for the employee’s spouse, parent, son or daughter of any age, or next of
   kin who is a covered service member with a serious injury or illness incurred in the line of duty on active duty,
   or a veteran discharged under other than dishonorable conditions within five years of receiving medical
   treatment, recuperation or therapy for a serious injury or illness. The single 12-month period is applied on the
   following basis: per covered service member, per injury or illness. This includes (is not in addition to) time
   used for other FMLA-qualifying purposes during the 12- month period.



   (3) An agency prorates the FMLA leave entitlement for part-time employees. Examples:


   1 The Wage and Hour Division of the US Department of Labor issued an Administrator’s Interpretation No. 2010-3 on June 22, 2010, to clarify
   the definition of “son or daughter” under Section 101(12) of the FMLA as it applies to an employee standing “in loco parentis” to a child.


Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                                           Page 2 of 9
           (a) The entitlement for a part-time employee who works 30 hours a week is up to 12 weeks of leave
               at 30 hours a week or 360 hours of intermittent or reduced-schedule leave in a leave year for
               their own serious health condition; (2) An employee who uses FMLA Military Caregiver leave
               and works 30 hours a week is entitled to up to 26 weeks of leave at 30 hours a week or 780
               hours of intermittent or reduced-schedule leave in a leave year.

           (b) An eligible limited duration or temporary employee’s FMLA leave ends when the employee’s
               assignment expires regardless of whether the person has exhausted their leave entitlement.

   (4) Required posting: Agencies must display the following poster in the worksite: “Employee Rights under
       the Family and Medical Leave Act.” The poster is attached to this policy and is available through the US
       Department of Labor.

           (a) Federal law requires that an agency provide FMLA information to applicants and employees
               upon hire. To satisfy the first requirement for all agencies, DAS maintains a link to FMLA
               information on the state Jobs website. An agency can satisfy the second requirement by giving
               a newly hired employee a copy of the FMLA poster or by using another method of informing
               new hires.

   (5) An agency follows this policy for all FMLA leave-types. Additional requirements for specific leave-types
       are contained in the following policy attachments:

             (a) Leave for a Serious Health Condition
             (b) Parental leave
             (c) FMLA Military Caregiver leave
             (d) FMLA Qualifying Exigency leave

   (6) Eligibility for leave: The agency determines eligibility for leave as follows. Eligibility is not pro-rated for
       part-time employees.

           (a) Employees Eligible for FMLA: to qualify for all FMLA leave types the employee must have
               worked for Oregon state government for a total of at least 12 months (if months are non-
               consecutive there can be no more than a seven-year break in service) and worked for at least
               1250 hours during the 12-month period immediately preceding the leave.

           (b) The agency counts only the hours the employee actually worked (not hours while on paid or
               unpaid leave), the hours worked in another state agency, hours worked as a temporary
               employee (state or Qualified Rehabilitation Facility temp) for a state agency, military leave- time
               (per federal USERRA law and State HR Policy 60.000.25 Military Leave), and hours spent
               performing union business to determine an employee’s eligibility for FMLA leave.

           (c) The agency reduces the employee’s FMLA entitlement by any FMLA leave used in the current
               leave year for the employee’s own or a family member’s serious health condition, Parental leave,
               FMLA Military Caregiver leave or FMLA Qualifying Exigency leave.

           (d) To determine the amount of an employee’s entitlement to FMLA Military Caregiver leave, the
               agency uses a “rolling forward” leave year. This means the leave year for Military Caregiver
               leave starts on the first day of the first occurrence of Military Caregiver leave. The employee has
               one year from the first day of the leave to use the 26-week leave entitlement. If the employee
               exhausts the leave before the year is over, the employee is not eligible for additional FMLA
               Military Caregiver leave during that year. The agency does not reduce the employee’s
               entitlement to FMLA Military Caregiver leave by the amount of FMLA leave used prior to the
               start of the Military Caregiver leave.

Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                       Page 3 of 9
    (7) Types of leave schedules:

              (a) Continuous leave: Leave taken in a block of time. For example, an employee takes six weeks of
                  leave due to illness.

              (b) Intermittent leave: Leave taken sporadically. For example, an employee misses five days of
                  work a month due to a serious health condition. Conditions for use of intermittent leave are
                  outlined in the policy attachments for each specific leave-type, where applicable.

              (c) Reduced-schedule leave: Leave taken where the employee is scheduled to work less than the
                  employee’s normal hours in a day or week. For example, an employee scheduled to work eight
                  hours a day, works six hours and takes the remaining two hours as FMLA due to a serious
                  health condition. Conditions for use of reduced-schedule leave are outlined in the policy
                  attachments for each specific leave-type, where applicable.

    (8) FMLA will run concurrently with the Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA) and/or Paid Leave Oregon, when
        applicable.

    (9) Entitlement when spouses work for Oregon state government:

              (a) Spouses who are both employed by Oregon state government share the FMLA entitlement for
                  Parental leave, leave to care for a parent with a serious health condition, and FMLA Military
                  Caregiver leave. An agency (or agencies) may choose to lift the requirement that spouses share
                  the entitlement when the absence of both employees does not cause a hardship for the agency.

    (10) Employee requirements to request FMLA: An employee makes a request to the agency 30 calendar
       days in advance for a planned or foreseeable absence2. The employee is not required to use the word
       FMLA, but they must give enough information that the agency can determine if the reason for the leave
       might qualify as FMLA. If the employee does not give enough information, the agency may ask
       questions as to the nature of the leave. Exceptions:

              (a) For medical emergencies, other unforeseeable events or short-notice situations, an employee,
                  or their family member if the employee is medically unable, must notify the agency as soon as
                  possible.

    (11) Agency’s initial response to a request for FMLA leave and eligibility determination3: Under most
       circumstances an agency provides an initial written response to the employee within five business days
       telling the employee whether they are eligible for FMLA leave, that the leave may count as FMLA, and:

              (a) If the employee is not eligible for leave, the agency provides at least one reason for the
                  determination. For example, the employee has not worked enough hours to qualify.

              (b) If the employee is eligible for leave, the agency may provisionally designate the leave until the
                  employee provides further information. Additionally, the agency notifies the employee of their
                  rights and responsibilities listed in Section 13, and whether the employee must provide medical
                  or military certification or military orders (in order for the agency to determine if the employee’s
                  reason for the leave qualifies as FMLA). If the agency requires medical or military certification
                  or military orders, the agency must also notify the employee of the consequence for failing to
                  provide the information.
2 The penalty for failure to give a 30-day notice is located in 29 CFR § 825.302 for an employee using exclusively FMLA.

3 An agency may designate or deny FMLA leave in the initial written response if the agency has enough information to make the determination if
the employee is eligible and the employee’s need for leave qualifies. The agency’s response must include (where applicable) the provisions in
Sections (10)(a), (11) and (12).

Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                                             Page 4 of 9
   (12) Agency’s determination if leave qualifies as FMLA: Within five business days of receiving information
      such as a medical or military certification, or military orders, the agency provides the employee with a
      written response that states whether the reason for the employee’s leave qualifies as FMLA and:

           (a) If the employee’s reason or purpose for the leave does not qualify for FMLA, the agency
               provides at least one reason for the determination. For example, the leave did not qualify as a
               serious health condition.

           (b) If the employee’s reason or purpose for leave qualifies as FMLA, the agency designates the
               leave as such and notifies the employee of:

                  i.    Their rights and responsibilities listed in Section 13.

                  ii.   The number of weeks, days or hours of leave that will count against the employee’s
                        FMLA entitlements if the leave is taken in a block of time or as a predictable reduced
                        schedule.

                 iii.   If the FMLA leave is intermittent or it is not possible to provide the specific amount of
                        time that counts against the employee’s FMLA entitlement, the employee may request
                        the agency provide a notice of the amount counted against FMLA. The request can be
                        no more than every 30 days and only when the employee has FMLA during those 30
                        days.

   (13) Employee’s rights and responsibilities under FMLA:

           (a) Employees are responsible for providing sufficient information for the agency to determine if
               the leave qualifies.

           (b) Employees must use paid leave according to this policy or a collective bargaining agreement.

           (c) Employees are entitled to insurance premium information.

           (d) An employee who requests leave for their own serious health condition is entitled to know
               whether the agency will require a fitness-for-duty certification before returning to work. The
               fitness-for-duty certificate must verify whether the employee is able to return to work, whether
               the employee has any job-related restrictions, and the duration of any restrictions. The agency
               must communicate this requirement when it initially responds to the employee’s request for
               leave.

   (14) Core PEBB Insurance: During months when an employee uses FMLA the agency pays its share of
      health care contributions for a benefit eligible employee’s enrolled core benefit (medical, dental, and
      vision and basic employee-only life insurance).

           (a) An employee must pay their share of the premium payment and any surcharges related to their
               core benefits. An employee in leave without pay status is required to make arrangements with
               the agency to pay for their share of the premium payments and surcharges associated with the
               employee’s core benefits. A family member may make arrangements to make premium
               payments if the employee is incapacitated.

                  i.    An employee may submit monthly payments to the agency for the employee portion of
                        core benefits.




Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                   Page 5 of 9
                  ii.   An employee may choose to have the employee portion of core benefit premiums paid
                        by the agency on their behalf during months an employee uses FMLA. Payments made
                        by the agency are recoverable upon the first available paycheck(s) after the employee
                        returns to work, not to exceed 10% of their gross pay of each pay period.

           (b) An employee may be required to reimburse an agency for the employer’s portion and any
               agency paid employee’s portion of insurance premiums paid on the employee’s behalf if the
               employee fails to return to work, unless the reason for the employee’s failure to return is a
               continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious health condition of the employee or employee’s
               family member, a continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious illness or injury of a covered
               service member or other circumstances beyond the employee’s control.

           (c) Refer to the CHRO Paid Leave Oregon policy 60-000-04 for continuation of insurance benefits
               when FMLA is used concurrently with Paid Leave Oregon.

   (15) Optional PEBB insurances:

           (a) If an employee works an insufficient number of hours in a month to cover their optional
               insurances while on FMLA or is in leave without pay status, the employee must pay premiums
               for the optional PEBB insurances that may be continued.

                  i.    An employee may submit monthly payments to the agency for the continued optional
                        insurance benefits.

   (16) PEBB Insurances after exhaustion of FMLA:

           (a) When leave does not qualify under FMLA, all insurance coverage terminates when the
               employee, who is not in a current Affordable Care Act (ACA) Stability Period, does not work
               enough hours in the month, uses insufficient paid leave, or fails to make a premium payment.
               Should the employee wish insurance to continue, they may self-pay some insurance premiums
               under COBRA. The employee receives information about self-paying insurance through a third-
               party administrator.

   (17) Use of paid leave: FMLA is unpaid leave entitlement. However, this policy requires an employee to use
      available paid leave during FMLA leave prior to using leave without pay with some exceptions listed in
      the chart below. The agency counts all paid and unpaid leave used during FMLA leave toward the
      employee’s FMLA entitlement. An employee chooses whether to use compensatory time (unless
      required by a collective bargaining agreement).




Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                               Page 6 of 9
         Leave Situation              Represented Employees                  Management Service,
                                        (The column below is the             Unclassified Executive Service
                                        employee’s requirement to use or     or Unrepresented Employees
                                        reserve leave in the leave           (The column below is the
                                        situation listed in                  employee’s requirement to use or
                                      the left-hand column)                  reserve leave in the
                                                                           situation listed in the far left- hand
                                                                           column)
  Employee is on any FMLA             Employee must use paid leave          Employee must use paid leave
  leave-types in a block of time is   but may be able to reserve leave      but may reserve 60 hours of sick
  not on workers’ compensation        according to an applicable            or vacation leave or a
  or receiving payments from a        collective bargaining agreement.      combination of both for use upon
  disability provider.                Employee may not reserve              return to work. Employee may not
                                      accrued paid leave when on            reserve accrued paid leave when
                                      intermittent or reduced-schedule      on intermittent or reduced-
                                      leave.                                schedule leave.
  Employee receives payments          Employee chooses if they will use     Employee chooses if they will use
  from a disability provider          paid leave.                           paid leave.
  while they are on FMLA.             If the employee chooses to use        If the employee chooses to use
                                      paid leave, paid leave must be        paid leave, paid leave must be
                                      used until exhausted prior to         used until exhausted prior to
                                      entering into leave without pay.      entering into leave without pay.
                                      If the employee chooses to use        If the employee chooses to use
                                      leave without pay, leave without      leave without pay, leave without
                                      pay shall end when disability         pay shall end when disability
                                      payments end. Employee                payments end. Employee
                                      resumes use of accrued paid           resumes use of accrued paid
                                      leave when disability payments        leave when disability payments
                                      end.                                  end.
  Employee receives payments          Refer to the applicable collective   Employees may choose to use
  from a disability provider          bargaining agreement.                sick, vacation, personal business,
  and/or receive Paid Leave                                                compensatory time, straight time
  Oregon while they are on FMLA                                            leave or leave without pay in any
                                                                           increment, up to their normally
                                                                           scheduled hours, while receiving
                                                                           Paid Leave Oregon.

  Employee exhausts FMLA and          Employee chooses if they will use    Employee chooses if they will use
  continues to receive payments       paid leave.                          paid leave.
  from a disability provider.         If the employee chooses to use       If the employee chooses to use
                                      paid leave, paid leave must be       paid leave, paid leave must be
                                      used until exhausted prior to        used until exhausted prior to
                                      entering into leave without pay.     entering into leave without pay.
                                      If the employee chooses to use       If the employee chooses to use
                                      leave without pay, leave without     leave without pay, leave without
                                      pay shall end when disability        pay shall end when disability
                                      payments end. Employee               payments end. Employee
                                      resumes use of accrued paid          resumes use of accrued paid
                                      leave when disability payments       leave when disability payments
                                      end.                                 end.




Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                     Page 7 of 9
  Leave Situation                    Represented Employees                   Management Service,
                                       (The column below is the              Unclassified Executive Service
                                       employee’s requirement to use or      or Unrepresented Employees
                                       reserve leave in the leave            (The column below is the
                                       situation listed in                   employee’s requirement to use or
                                      the left-hand column)                  reserve leave in the
                                                                             situation listed in the far left- hand
                                                                             column)
  Employee is on time loss      Employee chooses whether they                Employee chooses whether they
  through workers’ compensation will supplement the workers’                 will supplement the workers’
  while on FMLA leave.          compensation payment with                    compensation payment with
                                accrued paid leave to equal the              accrued paid leave to equal the
                                difference between the workers’              difference between the workers’
                                compensation payment and                     compensation payment and
                                their normal salary. (A collective           their normal salary.
                                bargaining agreement may have
                                further requirements or different
                                provisions.)

   (18) Returning from leave:

           (a) If an agency has exercised the option to require an employee who returns from leave for their
               own serious health condition to provide a fitness for duty statement from a health care provider,
               the agency can require that statement for the employee’s return. The statement must certify the
               employee is able to return to work, whether the employee has any job-related restrictions, and
               the duration of any restrictions.

   (19) Reinstatement rights:

           (a) An agency restores an employee who returns from FMLA to the same or an equivalent position
               with equivalent pay, benefits and other terms and conditions of employment. The following
               exceptions apply:

                  i.    If an equivalent position is not available, the employer shall offer the employee an
                        equivalent job at a geographically proximate worksite (i.e. one that does not involve a
                        significant increase in commuting time or distance), if such a position is available. If
                        equivalent positions are available at multiple job sites, the employer shall first offer the
                        employee the position at the job site that is nearest to the job site of the employee’s
                        former position.

                  ii.   If an agency eliminates the employee’s position through layoff, the agency treats the
                        employee as if the employee was not on FMLA, in the same manner as similarly situated
                        employees, according to the agency’s policy or applicable collective bargaining
                        agreement.

                 iii.   An agency restores an unclassified, temporary, or limited duration employee to the
                        extent the employee’s placement, appointment or position still exists.

                 iv.    If an employee does not return from leave or is unable to perform an essential function
                        of the position the employee held prior to the commencement of FMLA, with or without
                        reasonable accommodation, the employee may be subject to termination under
                        applicable law, rule, policy, or collective bargaining agreement.


Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                       Page 8 of 9
              (b) An agency has no obligation under FMLA to continue to employ an employee who has
                  exhausted their FMLA leave if the employee cannot return to the position they held prior to
                  FMLA, or cannot perform an essential function of the position, with or without reasonable
                  accommodation4. The following exceptions apply:

                        i.      An employee who cannot return to work after exhausting their FMLA leave entitlement,
                                who is not receiving disability payments, and who still has sick leave, must notify the
                                agency of the need to continue their absence using accrued sick leave according to
                                State HR Policy 60.000.01 Sick Leave with Pay, an applicable agency policy, or an
                                applicable collective bargaining agreement.

                       ii.      Where an employee’s own serious health condition prevents them from returning to
                                work after exhausting their FMLA leave entitlement, an agency has the option to grant an
                                employee’s request to extend an absence when continuing the leave does not impose an
                                undue hardship on the agency and it complies with law, policy, applicable collective
                                bargaining agreement, and reasonable accommodation provisions of the Americans
                                with Disabilities Act Amendments Act (ADAAA). An agency may request the employee
                                provide medical certification verifying the need for continued leave.

   (20) Effect on seniority, salary increases and recognized service date: Use of FMLA does not affect an
      employee’s seniority, eligibility for salary increases or the employee’s recognized service date. The
      agency treats an employee using FMLA leave as if the employee is not on leave, up to the point where
      the employee’s FMLA entitlement ends. Unpaid leave affects an employee’s PERS retirement benefits.

   (21) FMLA recordkeeping: An agency maintains records of the FMLA leave taken by its employees
      according to the recordkeeping requirements and purging schedules of OAR 166- 300-0035(3)(5)(6). An
      agency keeps FMLA medical records in a secured location in the Oregon state Human Resources
      Information System separate from an employee’s personnel file. These records will be available to the
      appropriate personnel in any agency in which the employee is currently employed.

   (22) An agency may send all eligibility and designation letters to the employee’s work email before and
      after the time the employee is on FMLA leave. The agency may send eligibility and designation letters
      to the employee’s personal email if the employee wants to provide their personal email address during
      the time the employee is on FMLA leave.

        Otherwise, eligibility and designation letters are delivered in person or sent through US mail. An agency
        may not send an employee’s completed medical certification through unsecure email. However, the
        agency is not prohibited from receiving medical documentation via email if the employee chooses to
        provide it in this manner.

   (23) Refer to the appropriate federal and state laws for situations regarding family and medical leave not
      covered in the policy.




   4
     An employee has reinstatement rights under FMLA as long as the employee returns immediately (the next business day for an employee on full-day leave) after the
   employee’s leave entitlement ends and can perform all essential functions of the position. An agency may still have an obligation to employ the person, but it is no
   longer under FMLA.



Policy No: 60.000.15 | Effective: 07/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                                                                     Page 9 of 9
