                                                         NUMBER                          SUPERSEDES

                                                         10.040.01                       10.040.01
                                                                                         02/01/2019
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                         EFFECTIVE DATE                  PAGE NUMBER
                                                         11/01/2024
                                                         REVIEWED DATE                   Pages 1 of 4

 Division                                                Authority
 Chief Human Resources Office
                                                         ORS 184.370, 240.145(3) and (4); 240.160; 240.250;
                                                         240.435; 240.850(5); Executive Order 17-08; DAS 107-001-
 Policy Owner
                                                         020, ORS 401, HB 4068 (2022 Regular Session), ORS
                                                         276A.323, DAS 50.000.01, DAS 50.010.02, DAS 50.010.04,
 CHRO Policy Unit                                        DAS 50.010.05, DAS 50.010.01, DAS 50.035.01

 SUBJECT                                                 APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Statewide Workforce Learning and
                                                         Signature on file with the Chief Human Resources Office
 Development

POLICY STATEMENT
Oregon state government recognizes its most important resource is its employees. It is committed to
providing a continuous learning and development environment, accessible to all employees, to maintain and
advance their knowledge, skills and competencies. Continuous employee learning and development is an
investment in both the employee and the organization, as it supports employee engagement, attraction and
retention, and encourages innovation and knowledge transfer.

APPLICABILITY
All employees, including temporary employees, and others working in an agency where noted.

ATTACHMENTS

Enterprise Employee Competencies

Enterprise Manager Competencies

DEFINITIONS
Compliance Training: employee training mandated by regulation, statute, rule, policy or executive order.

Formal Learning and Development: includes classroom instruction, web-based training, remote labs, self-
paced online courses, workshops, seminars, webinars, conferences, on-the-job training, mentoring, job
shadowing.

Informal Learning and Development: includes self-study, videos, articles, social media engagement, book
clubs, online forums and chat rooms, networking and taking on stretch assignments.

Others working in an agency: May include members of boards, commissions, councils, task forces,
workgroups, advisory groups, volunteers, interns, and other communities of interest to further statutorily
mandated and legislatively directed objectives.

Also refer to State HR Policy 10.000.01, Definitions.

Policy No: 10.040.01 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                             Page 1 of 4
POLICY
   (1) The increasing complexity of the work environment requires employees to continually develop
       competencies and upgrade their knowledge and skills. Therefore, formal and informal learning and
       development shall be integrated into some of the stages of the employee lifecycle (onboard, develop,
       retain, transition).


   (2) Learning and development opportunities shall be developed in line with industry standards
       and best practices and Oregon state government’s enterprise values and competencies.

           (a) The agency director administers this policy as the agency’s learning and development policy.

                   (A) Agencies must provide notification and access to employees for all required trainings
                       and communicate completion expectations.

                   (B) In addition to the learning and compliance trainings listed in this policy, an agency may
                       write or post in a location accessible to all agency employees an agency-specific policy
                       with additional required training.

                   (C) Managers, in consultation with their employees, must identify yearly performance or
                       developmental goals and document them in the Chief Human Resources Office human
                       resources information system.

                           (i) Within 60 days of a new employee’s position start date, the manager shall
                               identify the employee’s yearly performance expectations and goals and
                               document them in the Chief Human Resources Office human resources
                               information system.

                           (ii) At a minimum, each employee’s performance expectations and goals should be
                                reviewed and updated as needed.

           (b) Formal learning, development, and compliance trainings shall be prepared and presented by
               state employees or outside vendors and made available to employees through remote learning,
               online, classroom or other alternative platforms. Employees may request an accommodation to
               participate in a learning, development, or compliance training through their manager or agency
               human resources department.

           (c) Upon initial appointment to Oregon state government or the Executive Branch, new employees
               shall complete within the first 30 days of employment the following required compliance
               trainings unless otherwise required by statute, rule, policy or collective bargaining agreement:

                   (A) DAS – CHRO – Overview of Oregon State Government

                   (B) DAS – CHRO – Public Records


Policy No: 10.040.01 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                                 Page 2 of 4
                   (C) OGEC – Overview of Oregon Ethics Law

                   (D) DAS – CHRO – Violence and Weapons Free Workplace

                   (E) DAS – CHRO – Drug-free Workplace for Employees

                   (F) DAS – CHRO – Customer Service Fundamentals (must be completed within 60 days of
                       position start date)

                   (G) DAS – CHRO – Preventing Discrimination and Harassment

                   (H) DAS – EIS – Information Security Training: Foundations

                   (I) DAS – CHRO – Uplift Your Benefits for NEW Employees

           (d) The following compliance trainings are required for the following people:

                   (A) Within 30 days of initial appointment: All supervisory management employees shall
                       complete the DAS - CHRO - Performance Accountability and Feedback Module 1, Module
                       2 and Module 3.

                   (B) Within 60 days of position start date: All new hires to Oregon state government and
                       employees who transfer to an Executive Branch agency from the Legislature, Judicial
                       Department, Inside Oregon Enterprises, Oregon Travel Information Council, Secretary of
                       State, Treasury or a semi-independent agency must complete the agency’s new
                       employee orientation (NEO). Temporary and seasonal employees only need to complete
                       the agency NEO if they will work for the agency for 30 days or longer. At the agency’s
                       discretion, NEO for temporary or seasonal employees can be a modified version of the
                       full NEO.

                   (C) Within four months of initial appointment: All supervisory management employees,
                       except for agency heads, shall complete the DAS – CHRO Foundational Training
                       Program.

                   (D) Within six months of initial appointment: Agency heads and management service
                       employees shall complete the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) training
                       on incident command and the National Incident Management System.

                   (E) Within six months of initial appointment: All new board and commission members, and
                       executive directors of an entity with fewer than 50 FTE, must complete the DAS – CHRO
                       – Overview of Boards and Commissions training.

                   (F) Annually: All employees, including temporary employees, volunteers, and board and
                       commission members must complete the DAS – CHRO – Preventing Discrimination and


Policy No: 10.040.01 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                             Page 3 of 4
                       Harassment training unless an agency receives an exception from the DAS Chief Human
                       Resources Officer.

                   (G) Annually: All employees, including temporary employees, volunteers, and board and
                       commission members must complete DAS – EIS – Information Security Training:
                       Foundations.

                   (H) Within two years of initial appointment: All managers, supervisors, and human resources
                       staff must complete the DAS – CHRO – Intimate Partner Violence training unless the
                       agency has its own course.

                   (I) Once per biennium: All employees shall complete public records training. Employees
                       may take the DAS – CHRO – Public Records training, courses provided by the Secretary
                       of State, or agency-specific training provided by their agency.

                   (J) Before conducting a workplace investigation, a human resources employee shall
                       complete the DAS – CHRO – Conducting Discrimination and Harassment Investigations
                       in the Workplace training.

           (e) With approval from the Chief Human Resources Office, agencies may exempt employees from a
               training requirement when it is not an appropriate use of public resources, the employee has
               complied with the training requirement within the past two years, or for other acceptable
               reasons. The agency shall maintain all documents related to any exemptions.




Policy No: 10.040.01 | Effective: 11/01/2024 Reviewed:                                              Page 4 of 4
