                                                                      Directive

                    Title:      r:-waste·Handling facility Perrnltting & Cornpliari <:e       FORM C

                                                                                              Pa es:4
State of Oregon
Department of
Environmental
Quality


Scope:
This directive defines e-waste, categorizes e-waste handling facilities, describes potential
environmental concerns at these facilities, determines when an e-waste handling facility needs a solid
waste permit, describes what should be in the permit, and outlines inspection and technical assistance
guidelines.


Purpose/Need:
The purpose is to address potential environmental concerns at e-waste handling facilities and
coordinate permitting and compliance work done by solid waste and hazardous waste staff.

This directive applies to e-waste handling facilities but does not apply to transporters of e-waste
(regulated by ODOT, local hauling franchises, etc.). Facilities that only repair electronics for resale are
not defined as handling waste. This !MD is not intended to address some types of electronic waste
such as white goods (household appliances containing circuit boards). These materials must still be
managed appropriately to address potential hazardous waste or other environmental concerns. If
some time in the future DEQ determines that white goods require more scrutiny, DEQ will amend this
IM D or create a new one.

Legal Authority:
ORS 459, 465, and 466; OAR 340-093, 095-097, 102. See Attachment A, Guidance for Inspectors
Regarding Management of Electronic Waste, for details on relevant statutes and administrative rules.

Discussion:
Electronics waste recycling is a growing sector in Oregon. The electronics waste stream is expected to
grow due to increasing electronics in the marketplace as well as Oregon's E-cycle program initiated in
January 2009 and the landfill ban on covered electronic devices slated to go into effect in January
2010. Since electronics contain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium, storage and
handling must meet solid and hazardous waste requirements to protect human and environmental
health. This sector has been under scrutiny for sham recycling. HW and SW inspectors have
discovered several instances of mismanagement of e-waste through complaints. In addition, DEQ has
not had a systematic, consistent approach to solid waste permitting and inspecting e-waste facilities
and to hazardous waste regulation of small and large quantity generators who generate hazardous
waste from e-waste. This !MD identifies a methodical approach that DEQ staff will use to address
potential threats to Oregon's environment and human health regarding the safe collection and handling
of e-waste.

Directive:
Definition of e-waste: E-waste is defined as electronic devices used in the work-place and at home
that have been discarded or are intended to be discarded by the owner. These devices may contain
toxic or hazardous substances such as lead or mercury. E-waste includes televisions, computer
monitors, computers, printers, facsimile machines, copying equipment, calculators, VCRs, cell phones,
telephones, radios, DVD players, portable DVD players with video screens, and any other existing or
future types of equipment that are designed primarily to store or convey information electronically and
any accessories to such equipment.




Oregon Dept. of Environmental Quality, E-\vaste handling facility permitting and compliance       Page I
Categories of e-waste handling facilities: DEQ is categorizing e-waste handling facilities by their
activities. Environmental concerns increase as facilities carry out more activities. The categories are
listed in order of increasing potential for environmental concern.

Collector: A collector takes e-waste in and prepares it for shipping out with minimal handling and may
store it for some period of time.

Disassembly, dismantling and remanufacturing CDDRl: A DOR facility disassembles devices by taking
them apart, dismantles devices by popping rivets, breaking or cutting components apart, or
reconfiguring them, and/or remanufactures devices by mining them for parts or putting devices back
together using parts from various units. Residual waste is sent for disposal or additional recycling.

Shredding. grinding. or breaking CRTs and other e-waste: These facilities intentionally break CRTs,
computers and other e-waste most often through grinding or shredding for the purpose of material
recovery. Residual waste is sent for disposal or additional recycling. Shredding for purposes of
disposal may require a SW treatment permit.

Transformers: These facilities use processes such as smelting or refining to recover materials.

Environmental concerns accordma to e-waste catec ories:
Environmental Concerns & Regulatory Compliance    Collectors                                   DDRs   Shredder     Transformer
                                                                                                      or Grinder
Exposure to stormwater contributinq to water quality impacts                    x              x      x            x
Exposure to elements that could result in breakage and                          x              x      x            x
exoosure to hazardous substances or water aualitv imoacts
Fire hazards                                                                    x              x      x            x
Vectors (similar to those seen at landfill or other disposal                    x              x      x            x
sites) such as rats, mice, insects, birds, or bats. These vectors
could cause exposure to diseases or viruses harmful to
humans or other animals.         If materials accumulate water,
thev may become breedinCJ Qrounds for mosquitoes.
Inadvertent breakage may create HW that must be handled &                       x              x      x            x
disoosed of orooerlv
Securitv of the facilitv                                                        x              x      x            x
If the facility activities generate HW, HW may not be                           x              x      x            x
appropriately or adequately labeled or there may be no
labelina.
Volume of material stored:        Speculative accumulation is                   x              x      x            x
treated slightly differently between SW and HW. For SW
purposes, speculative accumulation occurs if material is onsite
longer than 6 months.        For HW purposes, speculative
accumulation occurs when <75% of material on site has been
sent for recycling since the start of the calendar year and no
markets are identified for the materials.
Lack of appropriate documentation to substantiate recycling                     x              x      x            x
activities. Minimum required is where, what, how much, and
when e-waste was received and where it went, how, and to
whom.
If CRT's are shipped out of the country for recycling, the                      x              x      x            x
facility needs to inform EPA and receive EPA confirmation. If
shinned out for reuse, facilitv needs to notifv EPA.
Possible illegal disposal of source separated recyclables or                    x              x      x            x
sham recvclina
Potential for creatina lead or other metal dust                                                x      x            x
Possible air or wastewater discharaes                                                          x      x            x
other toxic dust aels or liauids                                                               x      x            x
Could become HW aenerator by activities at facility                                            x      x            x
More likely breakage, shredding/grinding or transforming                                              x            x
activities that could cause air quality or water quality
oroblems
Fluff or dust from arindina or transformina mav create HW &                                           x            x


Oregon Dept. of Environn1ental Quality, E-\vaste handling Facility permitting and compliance                           Page 2
require HW characterization
Mav have sufficient air emissions to need an air quality permit                                   x   x
Mav have offsite dust                                                                             x   x
Generation & disposal of non-recyclable residues from                                         x   x   x
orocessina source seoarated recvclables


Solid waste permit determinations: DEQ has determined permit needs based on each type of
facility.

Collector: If the collector has a solid waste permit already, it will be amended to address e-waste
handling. If the collector does not have a solid waste permit, DEQ will not require one unless a
complaint response or site visit uncovers environmental concerns that are not addressed. A transfer
station or material recovery facility {MRF) permit may be issued if the facility does not address
environmental concerns. (OAR 340-093-0050(3)(f))

DOR: If a DDR has a solid waste permit, it will be amended to address e-waste handling. If a DDR
does not have a solid waste permit, DEQ will evaluate each facility and will require a MRF permit if,
after considering all of the following criteria, DEQ staff determine the facility's activities have potential
for environmental impact.
{l)The facility processes more than 100 tons of e-waste per year.
(2) The facility processes or stores e-waste outside or not under cover and near waterways or
wetlands or near a public drinking water supply. Tarping is not considered cover sufficient to protect
e-waste from environmental exposure. Materials are exposed to ambient conditions including
precipitation, flooding, wind, or other atmospheric conditions.
{3)The facility is near or in a residence, school, daycare facility, park, or playground or any other
locations where children are regularly present. Schools using computer repair and recycling activities
as an education tool may not need a permit.
( 4) The facility has had a notice of noncompliance, warning letter, pre-enforcement notice, or penalty
order for a WQ, HQ, or SW violation in the past five years, unless the facility is under new ownership
and violations occurred under past owners.

Shredder or Grinder: A shredder or grinder will need to get a solid waste MRF permit.


Transformer: DEQ will evaluate each transforming facility on a case-by-case basis to determine if
SW MRF or treatment permit is needed. Environmental concerns may be adequately addressed under
an AQ or WQ permit or existing facilities may comply with all HW requirements.

New SW permits:       DEQ will communicate the requirements for a new permit to existing unpermitted
e-waste facilities starting in April 2009 and will work with these facilities in a technical assistance role
to help them apply for permits and make sure they are managing e-waste appropriately. By January 1,
2010, any existing or new facility not currently accepting e-waste that wants to start accepting e­
waste and meets the criteria requiring a SW permit, must obtain a new permit or obtain a permit
amendment before accepting e-waste.

DEQ has prepared a draft permit template and draft operations plan template that are attached to this
IMD. In addition to typical solid waste requirements for safe management, storage, and processing,
the SW permit will include:
    1. Generic HW requirements, downstream due diligence for all e-waste recyclers that generate
       HW, and e-waste specific requirements.
   2. The landfill ban for E-Cycles Program covered devices (televisions, computers, laptops,
       monitors).
   3. An operations plan to be reviewed by both SW and HW staff that includes any special waste
       management plan requirements to address spills, breakage or accumulation.
   4. Facility closure plans
    5. After 2009 rule changes become effective that broaden the requirement for financial assurance,
       DEQ will require financial assurance for all facilities that shred, grind, or break CRTs and other
       e-waste. other facilities will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
   6. Record keeping and reporting requirements to avoid speculative accumulation and for material
       recovery survey purposes.

Oregon Dept. of Environmental Quality, E-\vaste handling facility permitting and compliance               Page 3
     7.   Other requirements appropriate for the specific facility.

Existing SW permits: Existing SW permits for collectors and DDRs will be modified to include any
appropriate requirements identified above (DEQ does not know of any permitted shredders or
transformers in Oregon). DEQ will determine if any permit changes warrant public comment.

Site visits: DEQ will decide priority order of site visits depending on the facility activities, whether it
has or needs a SW permit, and its HW generator status. Regional SW and HW managers will consult
and determine which program leads all site visits. Many visits during 2009 will be in a technical
assistance mode, unless egregious violations of environmental requirements for e-waste are found.
Beginning in 2010, site visits will shift to compliance inspections, although any type of facility may
request HW TA at any time.

SW permitted facilities will be inspected at least annually (collectors, DDRs, and shredders/grinders).

Non permitted facilities will be inspected periodically according to the priority assigned to the facility
(considering, for example, their HW generator status) and DEQ workload and resources available.
Regional managers will confer and agree on which program, HW or SW, takes lead, if inspections will
be joint inspections, whether TA staff or inspectors will do site visits, etc. At unpermitted DDRs, HW
will lead inspections but will consult with SW. These facilities may warrant a joint inspection to
determine whether they need permits. For collectors that do not have an existing permit but are in the
Oregon E-Cycles Program, DEQ will rely on plan representative audits to determine if site visit follow­
up is needed. These will be lower priority for DEQ inspections. Collectors not participating in the
Oregon E-Cycles Program will be higher priority for DEQ inspections or site visits. DEQ intends to
conduct a site visit at each of these facilities by 2011.

Inspector guidance. Hazardous Waste, Solid Waste and E-Cycles staff and inspectors will share and
exchange information and consult one another on facilities and compliance information." SW and HW
inspector guidance about the types of e-waste facilities and the kinds of violations to look for during
site visits is Attachment A to this !MD. DEQ's enforcement guidance covers these violations. This !MD
does not intend to enforce the Oregon E-Cycles Program, so no E-Cycles Program-specific violations
are identified in the guidance.

Implementation Plan and Schedule:
Implementation of this !MD will start upon signature and will follow the attached implementation plan
and schedule.


Review Schedule:
The periodic review schedule will apply.

Contact Person:
Audrey O'Brien, 503-229-5072, obrien.audrey@deq.state.or.us.

Disclaimer:
This directive is intended solely as guidance for DEQ employees. It does not constitute rulemaking by
the Environmental Quality Commission and may not be relied upon to create an enforceable right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any person. DEQ may take
action at variance with this policy.




Oregon Dept. of Environmental Quality, E-\vaste handling facility permitting and compliance         Page4
                        Attachment A
Guidance for Inspectors/TAs Regarding Management of
Electronic Waste

This guidance is intended to be used by solid waste and hazardous waste inspectors
or technical assistance staff when they inspect/visit electronic waste facilities that
collect; dismantle, disassemble, or remanufacture (DDR); or shred, grind, or break
CRTs or other types of e-waste. This guidance summarizes existing solid waste and
hazardous waste regulations applicable to facilities that collect or handle e-waste. It
also references common but not necessarily all air quality and water quality
requirements that may apply to these facilities. It does not include requirements for
the Oregon E-Cycles Program, which is monitored through a state contractor
program and manufacturer programs and third-party audits. However, DEQ SW and
HW inspectors will be inspecting some facilities participating in Oregon E-Cycles to
verify that they are complying with solid waste and hazardous waste requirements
that apply because they are handling e-waste. Information about Oregon E-Cycles,
including a list of facilities participating in the program, can be found at
www.deq.state.or.us/lq/ecycle/index.htm.

Before using this guidance, please review the information in the e-waste directive
(IMD) that defines e-waste and the types of facilities you may inspect and provides
other guidance on the collection and handling of e-waste.

Hazardous waste, solid waste, and Oregon E-Cycles staff and TAs/inspectors will
share information and consult one another on facilities and compliance information.
A checklist is being created for use when conducting site visits.




                                           1
Requirements that apply to all e-waste facilities

Regulation                                                 Details
Various                                                    All facilities that collect, store, or process e-waste
                                                           must comply with applicable local, state, and federal
                                                           regulations, including applicable SW & HW regulations
                                                           as well as other environmental, health, and safety
                                                           regulations.
Speculative accumulation/illegal storage of HW w/o         A material that a facility intends to recycle that would
permit, ORS 466.095(a) – Pursuant to 40 CFR                otherwise be a HW is “accumulated speculatively” – if
261.2(c)(4) and 261.1(c)(8)                                it is accumulated before being recycled unless the
                                                           person accumulating it can show that the material is
                                                           potentially recyclable and has a feasible means of
                                                           being recycled; and that during the calendar year
                                                           (commencing Jan 1) the amount of material that is
                                                           recycled, or transferred to a different site for
                                                           recycling, equals at least 75% by weight or volume of
                                                           that material accumulated at the beginning of the
                                                           period. Through photographs and documentation,
                                                           inspectors should note whether the collection of e-
                                                           waste stored on site is timely and appropriately
                                                           recycled. If e-waste is accumulated speculatively, SW
                                                           and HW regulations will apply. Inspectors/TA staff
                                                           may be able to verify speculative accumulation by
                                                           records requests after one site visit. However, if no
                                                           records are available, inspectors may need to conduct
                                                           multiple site visits to appropriately verify speculative
                                                           accumulation by documenting amounts through
                                                           repeated site visits (photographs, etc.).
Speculative Accumulation of SW, Operating a disposal       Per SW policy, if material is accumulated for more
site without a SW permit, OAR 340-093-0050(1)              than six months, the facility is considered a disposal
                                                           site. The material must be removed or the owner
                                                           must apply for a SW permit. Under this policy, a SW

                                                       2
Regulation                                            Details
                                                      speculative accumulation violation may be
                                                      documented earlier than a HW one. The same feasible
                                                      recycling and 75% recycled amount exemptions apply
                                                      as noted above for HW. If speculative accumulation of
                                                      SW is documented, the violation is creating,
                                                      operating, or maintaining an illegal solid waste
                                                      disposal site.
Illegal disposal of SW, OAR 340-093-0040(1)           If disposal of residuals or recyclable materials is
                                                      documented on-site (speculative accumulation or
                                                      otherwise), illegal disposal of solid waste is the
                                                      violation.
Hazardous waste determination (HWD), OAR 340-102- A person who generates a residue as defined in OAR
0011(2)                                            340-100-0010 must determine if that residue is a
                                                   hazardous waste using the following method: (a)
                                                   Persons should first determine if the waste is
                                                   excluded from regulation under 40 CFR 261.4 or
                                                   OAR 340-101-0004; (b) Persons must then determine
                                                   if the waste is listed as a hazardous waste in Subpart
                                                   D of 40 CFR Part 261. This includes conditionally
                                                   exempt generators (Pursuant to 40 CFR 261.5(g)(1).
                                                   Performing a HWD is one of the thresholds for
                                                   qualifying as a CEG). Any materials taken from e-
                                                   waste components as defined above that do not go to
                                                   recycling but are disposed of instead will require a
                                                   HWD. Wastes of concern include (all of the following
                                                   would be HW violations if the materials fail a HW
                                                   determination): Lead dust contaminated plastic or
                                                   other materials, fire retardant contaminated materials
                                                   and broken CRT glass. Facilities that generate a
                                                   residual, including shredding fluff as a result of their
                                                   processing, shredding, or grinding of e-waste have
                                                   generated a new waste and must perform a HWD on
                                                   the residual. The inspector/TA staff should evaluate
                                                 3
Regulation                                                  Details
                                                            the sampling protocol being used by the facility as
                                                            part of the evaluation of the HW Determination. If the
                                                            residual is recycled, it may be excluded from HW
                                                            regulations. If the residual is HW and is not recycled,
                                                            it is subject to the generator requirements of 40 CFR
                                                            262.34. (Note that CEG and SAA regulations may
                                                            apply). In addition , any facility that has violated the
                                                            speculative accumulation requirements for HW must
                                                            conduct a HWD on the e-waste if they cannot do so
                                                            by knowledge of process.
Illegal disposal of HW without a permit, ORS                If a facility does not comply with HWD requirement or
466.100(1) and (2)                                          through speculative accumulation or regular
                                                            generation, the facility becomes a SQG (220 lbs per
                                                            month HW or 2200 lbs accumulated at any one time)
                                                            or LQG, then the facility must dispose of HW at a
                                                            Subtitle C landfill. If they do not, then they have
                                                            illegally disposed of HW without a permit.
Illegal disposal of source separated recyclables, ORS       ORS 459A.080(3) prohibits a person from mixing
459A.080 & OAR 340-090-0090                                 source separated recyclable material with solid waste
                                                            “in any vehicle, box, container or receptacle used in
                                                            solid waste collection or disposal.”

                                                            OAR 340-090-0090(2) more specifically provides that
                                                            “no person shall dispose of source separated
                                                            recyclable material which has been collected or
                                                            received from the generator by any method other
                                                            than reuse or recycling except for used oil and wood
                                                            waste which may be collected and burned for energy
                                                            recovery.”
Labeling requirements, 40 CFR 262.34                        If HW is stored or managed, the labeling and
                                                            management requirements of 40 CFR 262.34 apply.
                                                            For DDRs this will likely apply to e-waste that has
                                                            been speculatively accumulated or hazardous non-
                                                        4
Regulation                                                      Details
                                                                recycled debris or other material related to DDR
                                                                activities.
CRT policy violations (interim policy in effect until DEQ       CRTs that are not being recycled and are broken must
adopts EPA rule in June 2009). Applies to e-waste               have a HW determination made if they came from
from large or small quantity generators. Facilities will        either small or large quantity generators. If the HW
need to separate e-waste received from household                determination results in a CRT failing the HW
hazardous waste generators (HHW) and conditionally              characteristic for lead, it must be labeled, dated, and
exempt generators (CEG) from small/large quantity               follow other HW requirements according to the
generators (SQG/LQG).                                           appropriate generator status.. If a CRT that is being
                                                                recycled is later determined to be unusable, a HW
                                                                determination is needed if the CRT was received from
                                                                a small or large quantity generator or if the facility
                                                                failed to separate HHW/CEG from SQG/LQG waste.
                                                                DEQ intends to adopt these federal rules during 2009.
                                                                The EPA CRT rules require that CRTs must be
                                                                recycled to avoid HW requirements. The CRT user
                                                                who decides the CRT cannot be used any longer must
                                                                know the final recycling destination of the CRT.

                                                                CRTs to be recycled must be accumulated in a
                                                                manner that minimizes breakage and is protective to
                                                                the environment. Any residuals from breakage must
                                                                be managed in suitable, closed containers that do not
                                                                leak and cannot be easily crushed to prevent releases
                                                                of hazardous constituents into the environment.
                                                                Cardboard Gaylord boxes would not be suitable
                                                                containers for broken, ground or crushed CRTs.
                                                                Containers holding broken CRTs must be labeled with
                                                                words “Broken CRTs for recycling.” If not recycled,
                                                                CRTs must be managed as potential HW. If broken
                                                                CRTs are exposed to the environment, then HW
                                                                regulations apply.


                                                            5
Regulation                                                     Details
                                                               Shredders/grinders and transforming facilities must
                                                               conduct all dismantling or processing inside a building
                                                               and have applicable permits. Residuals or waste
                                                               materials generated from the management of CRTs
                                                               that are destined for disposal or not destined for
                                                               recycling must be managed as potential HW. A HWD
                                                               must be performed and if the materials designate as
                                                               HW, then all applicable HW generator requirements
                                                               apply.
Water quality concerns: channelized discharges to              Note any water quality concerns and refer to the
surface water or wetlands; potential underground               appropriate program or government. Check with WQ
injection control points; stormwater sheet flow runoff;        program about possible UIC discharge without a
construction runoff; discharge to wastewater                   permit. Check with local government or DEQ WQ
treatment systems.                                             program about surface WQ discharge without NPDES
                                                               or WPCF permit or potential violations for not treating
                                                               wastewater before discharging.
Landfill ban, ORS 459A.305(12)(b)(A) and (5)(a) Each           Electronic devices covered by Oregon E-Cycles may
disposal site operator shall establish and implement, in       not be disposed of in landfills, starting Jan. 2, 2010.
accordance with any permit requirements established            Covered devices are televisions, computers, laptops,
by the Department of Environmental Quality, a                  and monitors. If the inspector sees a CED disposed,
program reasonably designed to prevent acceptance              the inspector will need to evaluate the facility’s
of covered electronic devices for disposal. If an              program to determine whether the operator is
operator operates the disposal site in conformity with         following a DEQ approved program designed to
the program, the operator is presumed to have                  prevent acceptance of CEDs for disposal.
complied with the provisions of this section that
prohibit knowingly accepting covered electronic
devices for disposal.”
Offsite dust violation, OAR 340-208-0450; new                  Note any visible offsite dust issues and refer to DEQ’s
emission equipment without Notice of Intent to                 AQ program for follow up or for help with response.
Construct filed with DEQ AQ program, OAR 340-0210              No facility is allowed to have visible offsite dust from
                                                               their facility operations after DEQ documents the first
                                                               occurrence and tells the facility to correct the

                                                           6
Regulation                                                   Details
                                                             problem. If DEQ inspectors/TA staff observe offsite
                                                             dust after a facility has been told to correct this
                                                             problem, DEQ may refer ongoing offsite dust
                                                             violations for penalty.

                                                             Any newly installed or recently installed emission
                                                             units should have been reviewed by DEQ’s AQ
                                                             program under the Notice of Intent to Construct
                                                             program. If the equipment has not been evaluated
                                                             by AQ, refer the concern and the facility to
                                                             appropriate AQ staff for follow up.
Failure to file material recovery survey, OAR 340-090-       Materials collected for recycling from households and
100(5)                                                       commercial establishments must be reported annually
                                                             on the material recovery survey. Check with SW HQs
                                                             to see if the company is filing or needs to file.
Lack of appropriate documentation for management of          If e-waste is not being recycled or speculatively
HW                                                           accumulated and it designates as HW, then all the
                                                             appropriate documentation is needed based on the
                                                             generator status of the facility. This would include
                                                             recordkeeping, notification requirements,
                                                             documentation of appropriate training, labeling
                                                             requirements and all the appropriate documentation
                                                             for safe management and disposal of HW for either
                                                             SQG or LQG or proof that the facility is a CEG or only
                                                             handling HHW. Documents that inspectors/TA staff
                                                             should check for include: receipts for incoming e-
                                                             waste, bills of lading or shipping receipts that
                                                             document where, to whom and when e-waste is
                                                             shipped offsite, landfill disposal receipts or records of
                                                             disposal, and HW manifests if needed.
Worker health and safety issues, various regulations         Inspectors/TA staff should be aware of regulations
                                                             that address worker exposures to hazardous
                                                         7
Regulation                 Details
                           materials and hazardous wastes. These regulations
                           require recyclers who perform authorized treatment
                           to ensure that workers/handlers who process the
                           electronic devices are thoroughly familiar with the
                           hazards associated with such processing and that
                           they have access to the proper procedures and
                           protective equipment necessary to conduct the
                           processing safely. In addition, the regulations require
                           handlers who process e-waste to comply with all
                           applicable worker health and safety laws and
                           regulations including: OR OSHA, DOT, and the Fire
                           Marshal. If inspectors/TA staff identify poor
                           housekeeping practices such as dust is present and
                           uncontrolled, staff should refer the facility to OR
                           OSHA for consultation or make a referral to OR
                           OSHA. If DEQ staff visit the facility in a TA mode,
                           then recommend the facility contact OSHA’s
                           consultant program which provides TA to facilities.
Fire safety concerns       Staff should consider a referral to the Fire Marshal if
                           chemicals and hazardous materials are stored on-site
                           in large volumes or the quantity of e-waste seems
                           disproportionate for the building.




                       8
Requirements that apply to e-waste facilities that have SW permits.

Regulation                       Details
Violating permit or operations   Permit requirements are identified in OAR 340-093 and 096 and may vary
plan conditions, OAR 340-093-    depending upon the type of permit issued. DEQ anticipates that collectors if
0050(6) and (7). OAR 340-096-    required to have a permit will have a SW transfer station or material
0040                             recovery facility permit. DDRs will most likely have SW material recovery
                                 facility permits. Shredders/grinders will most likely have a material
                                 recovery facility permit or possibly a SW treatment permit. A transformer
                                 will be evaluated to determine if existing permits adequately address
                                 environmental concerns. If a SW permit is needed, it may be a material
                                 recovery facility permit or a treatment permit.

                                 Permit requirements will include DEQ approval of site characterization, plans
                                 and specifications, operations plans, any required financial assurance, and
                                 other requirements designed to assure safe handling, management and
                                 disposal of e-waste to avoid environmental and human health impacts. E-
                                 waste facilities are disposal sites as defined by ORS Chapter 459, and are
                                 also subject to the requirements of OAR Chapter 340, Divisions 93, 95 and
                                 97 as applicable.
Exceeding permit or operating    Permits may include limits on the amounts of materials stored, processed or
plan limits, OAR 340-093-        managed on site. These limits may be exceeded if the facility speculatively
0050(6)-(7)                      accumulates e-waste on site.




                                                     9
Note: If an inspector documents violations of SW permit conditions, the inspector should check if
the permit condition is established to carry out a specific rule requirement. Enforcement of rule
violations can be addressed through warning letters or pre-enforcement notices that refer
violations for penalty orders. Permit condition violations that are not also rule or statutory
violations require notices of permit violations which take significantly more time to complete.

Specific Exemptions that may apply to e-waste facilities:

Each participating facility will need to very carefully manage their recycling programs to ensure that the e-
waste does not speculatively accumulate or become discarded so that HW requirements are triggered.

Some household hazardous waste facilities may act as E-cycles collection facilities only. Those facilities are not
subject to HW regulation if the covered electronic devices are handled properly because there is an assumption
in the law that the covered electronic devices are coming from households or small businesses so they are
treated as household hazardous waste or conditionally exempt generator waste. However, in order to maintain
the household hazardous waste designation the Collection/Storage/Processing facility will have to keep that
household E-cycles e-waste segregated from E-waste from other sources.




                                                        10
