Conducting Contained-In
Determinations for
Environmental Media
Internal Management Directive

July 2024
                                       This document was prepared by:

                                Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
                                        Hazardous Waste Program
                                   700 NE Multnomah Street, Suite 600
                                         Portland Oregon, 97232

                                      Email: hazwaste@deq.oregon.gov
                                          Phone: 1-844-841-4938

                                              www.oregon.gov/deq




Translation or other formats
Español | 한국어 | 繁體中文 | Pусский | Tiếng Việt | ‫اﻟﻌﺮﺑﯿﺔ‬
800-452-4011 | TTY: 711 | deqinfo@deq.oregon.gov

Non-discrimination statement
DEQ does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age or sex in administration of
its programs or activities. Visit DEQ’s Civil Rights and Environmental Justice page.
Disclaimer
This directive is intended solely as guidance for Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
employees. It does not constitute rulemaking by the Environmental Quality Commission and may
not be relied upon to create an enforceable right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable
at law or in equity, by any person. With written managerial approval, DEQ employees may deviate
from this directive. DEQ anticipates revising this directive from time to time as conditions warrant.




Document development
 Prepared By:     Hazardous Waste Program IMD Team


 Reviewed By:     Hazardous Waste Program Management Team


 Approved By:     Hazardous Waste Program Management Team                  Date: 7/25/2024

                    Michael E. Kucinski                                            08/26/2024
 Approved By:     Michael E. Kucinski (Aug 26, 2024 08:10 PDT)             Date:
                 Michael E. Kucinski,
                 Interim Land Quality Administrator
Table of contents

      1. Intent/purpose/statement of need .......................................................................... 5
      2. Applicability.............................................................................................................. 7
      3. Summary .................................................................................................................. 8
      4. Background .............................................................................................................. 9
      5. Definitions ...............................................................................................................10
      6. Acronyms used in this directive ............................................................................11
      7. Directive ...................................................................................................................13
      7.1 Applicability ............................................................................................................13
      7.2 Steps for making the No Longer Contained-In Determination ............................14
      7.3 Documenting the Approval....................................................................................15
      8. Appendices ................................................................................................................17
      9. Record of revisions to directive ...............................................................................23




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                                                                 4
1. Purpose
This directive provides guidance to Oregon Department of Environmental Quality staff in
assessing whether environmentally contaminated materials containing listed hazardous waste
can be safely disposed of as non-hazardous waste. Once determined to no longer contain
hazardous waste, these materials may be disposed of at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle
C landfill, a solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill, or a wastewater treatment facility
permitted under the Clean Water Act. 1 This includes facilities such as wastewater treatment
plants with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, or NPDES, permit or those with a
permitted pre-treatment discharge. DEQ staff can make a ‘No Longer Contained-In’
determination once all the specified management conditions outlined in the approval memo
have been satisfied. If the conditions are met, the waste can be managed as non-hazardous;
otherwise, it must be managed as hazardous waste.

To encourage remediation at contaminated cleanup sites, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency developed regulations and policies for hazardous waste in environmental media,
meaning soil, sediment, water, etc. Examples of such regulations and policies are the Area of
Contamination policy, the contained-in policies, and temporary unit regulations. 2 EPA
determined environmental media containing listed hazardous wastes or exhibiting a hazardous
waste characteristic must be managed as hazardous waste. 3

EPA regions and authorized states may apply the contained-in policy to determine if the
concentration of hazardous constituents in the environmental media falls below site-, media-
and contaminant-specific levels EPA or the states determine are protective of human health and
the environment. Environmental media with contaminant concentrations below these levels may
be disposed of at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a solid waste permitted Subtitle D


1 A Subtitle D equivalent landfill may adequately protect human health and the environment in specific

situations. The discretion to approve the use of such a landfill for disposal of waste deemed to 'no longer
contain' hazardous waste lies with the Regional Hazardous Waste Manager.

2 63 FR 65877 (November 30, 1998), "How Has EPA Tried to Solve These Problems in the Past?", 61 FR

18780, 18782 (April 29, 1996), memorandum from Michael Shapiro, Director, Office of Solid Waste,
Stephan D. Luftig, Director, Office of Emergency and Remedial Response, and Jerry Clifford, Director,
Office of Site Remediation Enforcement, EPA to RCRA Branch Chiefs and CERCLA Regional Managers,
(March 13, 1996); 55 FR 8666, 8758-8760 (March 8, 1990); and 58 FR 8658 (February 16, 1993).

3 63 FR 28621 (May 25, 1998), "The Contained-In Policy". EPA requires that “soil (and other

environmental media), although not wastes themselves, be managed as if they were hazardous waste if
they contain hazardous waste or exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste."



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                                         5
lined landfill, or a wastewater treatment facility permitted under the Clean Water Act, if
determined to no longer contain listed hazardous waste.

The No Longer Contained-In Determination, or NLCI, for contaminated media can be made
irrespective of treatment status. It is important to clarify that the decision on whether the media
is considered NLCI is not dependent on the completion of treatment processes. This
determination can be made before or after any treatment activities; the assessment cannot
require the media to be treated as a precondition for approval.

Once DEQ determines environmental media no longer contains listed hazardous waste, the
generator/cleanup site must manage and dispose of the contaminated environmental media
following DEQ conditions of approval, either at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a
solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill or at a wastewater treatment facility permitted
under the Clean Water Act. Because the NLCI determination is approved after determining that
contaminants are below risk levels, the generator/cleanup site has more options to manage and
dispose of the contaminated environmental media. The NLCI determination offers the
generator/cleanup site an alternate pathway of protective management because permitting
requirements and minimum technology requirements do not apply to media that does not
contain listed hazardous waste. The generator/cleanup site will still need to manage the
environmental media according to Oregon’s solid waste, water quality, and any other applicable
requirements.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                                 6
2. Applicability
DEQ Hazardous Waste and Cleanup program staff will use this IMD when evaluating whether
contaminated environmental media containing a listed hazardous waste must be disposed of as
hazardous waste. Sites that may generate contaminated environmental media include, but are
not limited to:

    •   Regulated hazardous waste generators with releases to the environment.
    •   Environmental cleanup sites under DEQ oversight.
    •   Emergency response sites under DEQ oversight.
    •   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act corrective action sites under DEQ oversight.
    •   Out-of-state waste that DEQ considers hazardous waste-contaminated environmental
        media, including waste from hazardous waste generators, cleanup sites, or RCRA
        corrective action sites.

Regarding media generated during cleanup from a registered underground storage tank, 40
Code of Federal Regulations §261.4(b)(10) states: "Petroleum-contaminated media and debris
that fail the test for the toxicity characteristic of §261.24 (hazardous waste codes D018 through
D043 only) and are subject to the corrective action regulations under part 280 of this chapter."
This exemption includes benzene and some solvents. It does not apply to RCRA metals and
solvent-bearing wastes that are not listed. Cleanups from underground storage tank waste oil
tanks, often legacy sites, may generate waste characterizing for F-listed solvents which are not
exempt from hazardous waste determination. Such wastes are eligible for review under this
IMD.

This IMD does not address contaminated debris. Examples of contaminated debris include, but
are not limited to, manufactured objects, plant or animal matter, and natural geologic material
over 60 millimeters in diameter. This IMD recommends that Cleanup Program staff consult with
DEQ Hazardous Waste Program staff for assistance with contaminated debris. 4




4 Traditionally, the same contained-in policy for environmental media governed hazardous waste-

contaminated debris. In 1992, the EPA codified certain aspects of the contained-in policy for debris in the
definition of hazardous waste regulations in §261.3. In particular, the EPA included a regulatory passage
explaining the process by which handlers of debris contaminated with listed hazardous waste can
demonstrate the debris is non-hazardous. This passage also references certain treatment technologies
for decontaminating listed debris so that it no longer contains a listed waste.



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                                     7
This IMD applies only to contaminated environmental media. This IMD does not apply to waste
streams generated during normal industrial or manufacturing operations (i.e., "as­ generated"
wastes), such as:

   •   Concentrated spent chemicals.
   •   Discarded, unused commercial chemical products and formulations.
   •   Industrial wastewaters.
   •   Pollution control/treatment residues such as sludge, as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                           8
3. Summary
For each individual case, DEQ may determine that contaminated environmental media no
longer contains hazardous waste when: 1) it no longer exhibits a characteristic of hazardous
waste; and 2) concentrations of hazardous constituents from listed hazardous waste are below
risk-based concentration levels when managed as approved by DEQ.

When cleaning up soils contaminated with hazardous waste, adhere to the specific risk-based
concentrations established for construction workers. In exceptional cases, particularly for
locations with high levels of naturally occurring background metals like arsenic, DEQ staff may
recommend an alternative RBC. This recommendation applies to soils with high concentrations
of naturally occurring metals that do not exceed the background levels outlined in DEQ's
Background Levels of Metals in Soils for Cleanup fact sheet. In such cases, DEQ staff will align
with the current DEQ Risk-Based Concentrations for Individual Chemicals table and may
consult the EPA’s Regional Screening Levels-Generic Tables for further guidance. The regional
background metal concentrations provided in these resources can be used for soil removal and
disposal instead of the standard RBC. This alternative approach must be thoroughly
documented and is subject to approval by the Hazardous Waste Program Management Team
or Regional Manager.

DEQ cleanup project managers will consult with DEQ Hazardous Waste Program staff on
determinations by routing a memo (reference Appendix A) to the regional Hazardous Waste
Program through the appropriate hazardous waste staff person and their manager. Hazardous
waste staff will consider land disposal restriction issues and coordinate with the cleanup project
manager who drafted the memo. Once hazardous waste staff, and materials management staff
if input from the landfill permit writer is required, approve the memo, it will be routed to the
appropriate cleanup and hazardous waste managers for signature and final approval.

The responsible party must manage the contaminated media in compliance with conditions
prescribed in the approval memo for it to qualify as non-hazardous waste. In situations involving
long-term disposal or disposal of large volume material, cleanup or hazardous waste staff may
consult with the solid waste or hazardous waste permit writer to make sure that the landfill being
considered for disposal can safely manage the waste, has sufficient capacity for this waste and
its contaminant concentrations, and is approved to accept the environmental media either as an
authorized waste or through a special waste management plan.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                            9
4. Background
EPA's contained-in policy is not codified in rule. However, it is a long-standing policy for
applying RCRA Subtitle C requirements to mixtures of environmental media (e.g., soils,
groundwater, sediments) and listed hazardous wastes. Two rules subject environmental media
to Subtitle C requirements:

    •   Under 40 CFR 261.3(c)(1), a "hazardous waste will remain a hazardous waste" unless
        and until the generator meets the conditions specified by the authorized agency. DEQ
        sets out these conditions in an approval memo.
    •   Under 40 CFR 261.3(d)(2), a "waste which contains" a listed hazardous waste remains a
        listed waste until it is delisted.

Together, these regulations provide for continued regulation of hazardous wastes even after
they are released to the environment and commingle with environmental media.

EPA has discussed the contained-in concept in several directives, RCRA rulemakings (e.g., 58
FR 48092, 48127 [September 1993]), and letters. 5 In addition, EPA describes the policy on
page 9 of Management of Remediation Waste Under RCRA, EC-G-2002-096.

EPA has not issued guidance or regulations for determining appropriate contained-in levels;
however, EPA regions and states have been advised that risk-based levels derived from direct
exposure pathways or site-specific risk assessments are acceptable as "contained-in" levels.
EPA’s practice is that waste managed under a specific management method approved as
protective no longer contains listed hazardous waste. EPA's practice anticipates that authorized
states such as Oregon might hold in abeyance no longer contained-in approvals conditioned on
final management of the waste under the approved management method. If DEQ issues a NLCI
determination for a waste that contains listed hazardous waste unless protectively managed and
that waste is mismanaged, then that waste remains hazardous and subject to hazardous waste
management and disposal requirements.




5 The EPA has explained the policy and its regulatory basis in numerous preambles and letters, including

53 FR 31138, 31142, 31148 (August 17, 1988); 57 FR 21450, 21453 (May 20, 1992); memorandum from
Marcia E. Williams, Director, the EPA Office of Solid Waste to Patrick Tobin, EPA Region IV (Nov 15,
1986); letter from Jonathan Z. Cannon, the EPA Acting Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste and
Emergency Response, to Thomas Jorling, Commissioner, New York Department of Environmental
Conservation (June I9, 1989); letter from Sylvia K. Lowrance, Director, the EPA Office of Solid Waste, to
John Ely, Enforcement Director, Virginia Department of Waste Management (March 26, 1991); and a
detailed discussion in HWIR-Media proposal preamble, 61 FR 18795 (April 29, 1996).



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                                 10
5. Definitions
Administratively Complete: This definition refers to the responsible party's formal request. The
request must have the following information: requester's name and address; site name, location,
and ECSI, YDO, UST/LUST or RCRA Site ID number, if issued; a list of applicable waste codes;
an explanation of the type of environmental media (sediment, water, soil, etc.); an estimate of
quantities the request applies to; and sufficient laboratory analytical results that characterize
each material to support a determination.

Area of Contamination Policy: EPA interprets RCRA to allow certain discrete areas of
generally dispersed contamination to be considered RCRA units - typically landfills. Because an
area of concern, or AOC, is equated to a RCRA land-based unit, consolidation and in situ
treatment of hazardous waste within the AOC does not create a new point of hazardous waste
generation for the purposes of RCRA. This interpretation allows wastes to be consolidated or
treated in situ within an AOC without triggering land disposal restrictions or minimum technology
requirements. The AOC interpretation may be applied to any hazardous remediation waste
(including non-media wastes) in or on the land. Note that the AOC policy only covers
consolidation and other in situ waste management techniques carried out within an AOC. 6

DEQ highly recommends the AOC be clearly defined and determined before submitting a
request for a NLCI determination. Establishing the AOC upfront ensures that all subsequent
waste management activities are conducted within the established boundaries, thereby
maintaining compliance with RCRA, and facilitating a more streamlined and effective
remediation process. This proactive approach helps avoid potential regulatory complications
and ensures that all waste management activities within the AOC are carried out in accordance
with the regulations.

Environmental Media: Soil, sediment, and water (surface water, stormwater, groundwater) in
the environment.

Debris: Solid material exceeding a 60 millimeter diameter particle size intended for disposal and
that is: a manufactured object, plant or animal matter, or natural geologic material. Materials that
are not debris include any material for which a specific treatment standard is provided in 40
CFR Subpart D, Part 268, namely lead acid batteries, cadmium batteries, and radioactive lead


6 The AOC policy was first articulated in the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution

Contingency Plan (NCP). Reference 53 FR 51444 for detailed discussion in proposed NCP preamble; 55
FR 8758-8760 (March 8, 1990) for final NCP preamble discussion. Reference also the most recent
guidance from the EPA, “Use of the Area of Contamination Concept During RCRA Cleanups” (March 13,
1996).



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                            11
solids; process residuals such as smelter slag and residues from the treatment of waste,
wastewater, sludges, or air emission residues; and intact containers of hazardous waste that
are not ruptured and that retain at least 75% of their original volume. A mixture of debris that
has not been treated to the standards provided by §268.45 and other material is subject to
regulation as debris if the mixture is comprised primarily of debris by volume, based on visual
inspection.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                              12
6. Acronyms or abbreviations
AOC: Area of Contamination

CERCLA: Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act

CFR: Code of Federal Regulations (§ denotes a subsection of 40 CFR)

CWA: Clean Water Act

DEQ: Department of Environmental Quality

EPA: Environmental Protection Agency

ECSI: Environmental Cleanup Site Information system

IDW: Investigative Derived Waste

IMD: Internal Management Directive

LDR: Land Disposal Restriction(s)

LUST: Leaking Underground Storage Tank

MRL: Minimum Reporting Levels

NLCI: No Longer Contained-In

NPDES: National Pollution Discharge Elimination System

PCE: Perchloroethylene or Tetrachloroethylene, i.e., dry cleaning fluid

POTW: Publicly Owned Treatment Works

TCLP: Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (EPA test method 1311 for HW)

RBC: Risk Based Concentration

RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act

UST: Underground Storage Tank

WWTP: Wastewater Treatment Plant




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                     13
7. Directive
7.1 Applicability
This IMD applies only to environmental media: soil, sediment, and water. Hazardous waste-
contaminated debris management is found under 40 CFR 261.3(f)(2) and 40 CFR 268.45(a).

7.2 Steps for making the No Longer Contained-In
Determination
7.2.1. Verification
DEQ must receive a formal request for a No Longer Contained-In determination to initiate the
process. DEQ staff’s initial review should verify:

   1) Whether the site is a current DEQ cleanup site. This includes sites currently participating
      in one of the following programs: Voluntary Cleanup Program, Independent Cleanup
      Pathway, Site Response Program, or Orphan Site Program.
   2) Whether the site is another independent cleanup site without cost recovery, and not one
      of the programs listed in 7.2.1.1. Any site that requests an NLCI determination from DEQ
      must volunteer for or be willing to enter a cleanup cost recovery program for the
      determination process or actual cleanup process.
   3) Whether DEQ Hazardous Waste Program staff will charge to the QCat number for
      hazardous waste generators or to the responsible party. For more complicated
      determinations, Hazardous Waste Program staff maintain the ability to charge to the
      responsible party, and such charges will be preceded by a discussion with the involved
      parties. DEQ Cleanup Program staff will charge the responsible party through the
      cleanup agreement.
   4) That the request includes sufficient analytical information to demonstrate that the
      environmental media no longer contains hazardous waste. Sample results must be
      representative of the media in its current state, whether treated or untreated, and
      obtained following established protocols, such as SW-846, or through site sampling
      conducted per a DEQ-approved sampling and analysis plan or quality assurance project
      plan.
   5) That the request is administratively complete, as defined above.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                          14
7.2.2. Applying RBCs
After meeting the prerequisites outlined in Section 7.2.1, DEQ's completion of the NLCI
determination for environmental media, particularly soils contaminated by listed hazardous
wastes, will adhere to the construction worker risk-based concentrations, ensuring these soils
are managed below the specified risk-based levels. Contaminated media should be sampled in
situ or within the area of contamination, targeting removal and disposal at authorized hazardous
waste permitted Subtitle C or a solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill. In certain
scenarios, a DEQ toxicologist may approve an alternative RBC that guarantees sufficient
protection, with a comprehensive justification for such an alternative required in the NLCI
determination. The Hazardous Waste Program reserves the final approval on the use of
alternative RBCs, which should be cautiously considered and documented as exceptions rather
than standard protocol.

Such an exception applies to soils with high concentrations of naturally occurring metals that do
not exceed the background levels outlined in DEQ's Background Levels of Metals in Soils for
Cleanup fact sheet. In these cases, DEQ staff will align with the current DEQ Risk-Based
Concentrations for Individual Chemicals table and may consult the EPA’s Regional Screening
Levels - Generic Tables for additional guidance. The regional background metal concentrations
provided in these resources can be used for soil removal and disposal instead of the standard
RBC. This alternative approach must be thoroughly documented and is subject to approval by
the Hazardous Waste Program Management Team or Regional Manager.

The determination that environmental media no longer contain hazardous waste will be based
on whether:

   •   Water exhibits hazardous contaminant concentrations below the construction and
       excavation worker RBC.
   •   Soil or sediment shows hazardous constituent levels beneath the construction worker
       RBC.

Media that exhibit a hazardous waste characteristic, but are not listed as hazardous waste, are
considered to "contain" hazardous waste until these characteristics are no longer present. This
status is typically confirmed through straightforward analytical testing, and therefore, does not
require a formal DEQ NLCI determination.

7.2.3. Land Disposal Restriction Considerations
LDRs apply to each of the following situations:

   1. The waste is generated, removed from the land or AOC, prior to the NLCI determination
      and the media is contaminated by a listed hazardous waste.



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                           15
   2. The waste is hazardous waste and must be treated to meet the RBCs unless treatment
      is completed within the AOC.

If LDRs are applicable and must be met, use the alternative LDR treatment standards for
contaminated soil found in 40 CFR 268.49.

Contaminated environmental media that does not contain any hazardous waste, as
demonstrated by non-detect results at minimum reporting levels achieving the industry standard
(recommended to be no less than 20% of both applicable RCRA and cleanup regulatory
thresholds), is not considered hazardous waste and is not subject to any RCRA Subtitle C
requirements, including LDRs. Once the hazardous waste determination is complete and meets
these conditions, the responsible party is not required to consult with DEQ regarding the
hazardous waste regulatory status and management of such waste. However, solid waste
disposal requirements still apply.

7.2.4. Disposal Restrictions
If DEQ concludes environmental media no longer contains hazardous waste if managed in
accordance with conditions in DEQ’s approval memo (see Section 7.3), the media does remain
subject to solid waste management standards and additional solid waste restrictions on reuse,
placement, or disposal may apply as outlined in Section 7.3. DEQ’s NLCI determination
approval requires soil to be managed at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a solid waste
permitted Subtitle D lined landfill and water to be disposed of at a Clean Water Act permitted
wastewater treatment system.

7.3 Documenting the Approval
The cleanup project manager will provide the Hazardous Waste Program a draft approval memo
and cover sheet (refer to Appendix A for the approval memo template). This memo provides the
basis to support non-hazardous characterization and sets out prescribed disposal options,
including soil managed at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a solid waste permitted
Subtitle D lined landfill, and water disposed of at a wastewater treatment facility permitted under
the Clean Water Act.

The cover sheet includes:

   •   Site name.
   •   Any identification numbers such as an ECSI number and/or RCRA site ID.
   •   Media types involved.
   •   Approved disposal method(s).
   •   Signature lines for:
           o Cleanup project manager.



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                           16
           o   Cleanup toxicologist, where alternate RBC is recommended.
           o   Hazardous waste staff reviewing the request.
           o   Hazardous or solid waste permit writer (if applicable).
           o   Regional Hazardous Waste Program manager and regional Cleanup Program
               manager who will provide final approval.


The body of the memo must include:

   •   Brief description of site background.
   •   Discussion of why the NLCI determination is needed.
   •   Analytical results listed in a table.
   •   Discussion of the data review, including alternate RBC recommendations.
   •   Description of limitations and conditions and DEQ’s conclusions.

The body of the memo will also state requirements and conditions for approved disposal of soil
and/or water as indicated in Section 7.2.4, and a list of supporting documents, including the
NLCI determination request submitted by the responsible party, if applicable.

The Regional Hazardous Waste Program manager has five business days to review and sign
the memo once it has been routed to them. If this is not possible, the Regional Hazardous
Waste Program manager may request an extension or delegate signatory authority. Once
signed, the memo is returned to the cleanup project manager.

After the memo is approved and signed, ensure a copy is filed in both the Hazardous Waste and
Cleanup program files for future reference. If a site has not been assigned a cleanup project
manager to oversee the completion of waste management as approved, the responsible party
must submit documentation confirming the completion of the requirements outlined in the
approval memo. This includes submitting disposal receipts showing the tonnage managed at an
approved facility or facilities.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                        17
8. Appendices
Appendix A – Template and Example: Contained-In Determination Approval Memo

Appendix B - Example Scenarios: Conducting Contained-In Determinations

Appendix C - Example Addendum: Extending a No Longer Contained-In Determination




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                     18
                                         Appendix A

            Template and Example: Contained-In Determination Approval Memo

Note: Use the most recent memo template, available on QNet.

              Oregon DEQ Contained-In Determination Approval Signoff Sheet

Site Name [include ESCI/LUST/RCRA #]:

Location:

Media:

Approved Disposal Location:

Signatures:

Cleanup project manager:

____________________________________________                          Date:

Hazardous Waste Program staff:

____________________________________________                          Date:

Solid waste or hazardous waste permit writer [if needed]:

____________________________________________                          Date:

Hazardous Waste or Solid Waste Program manager:

____________________________________________                          Date:

Cleanup toxicologist [if needed]:

____________________________________________                          Date:

DEQ Cleanup Program manager:

____________________________________________                          Date:




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                     19
Memorandum

Date: 2/10/2024

To: Project File, ZY Mobility, ECSI 1234

From: Joe Brown, Project Manager, Western Region Cleanup Program

Subject: No Longer Contained-In Determination for ZY Mobility Site, Medford, Oregon
(ECSI 1234)

DEQ’s Western Region Environmental Cleanup and Hazardous Waste programs have prepared
this No Longer Contained-In Determination for soil cuttings and groundwater investigation
derived waste and soil generated during a sanitary sewer line replacement project at the ZY
Mobility cleanup site. ZY Mobility provides vehicle retrofitting services for people with disabilities
and has been in operation in Medford since 1982. Prior to this, the site was occupied by a dry
cleaning facility between 1950 and 1981. Releases of Perchloroethylene, also called PCE, from
past dry cleaning practices have contaminated soil and groundwater beneath the site. PCE
contamination in environmental media from this site would be considered by DEQ to contain a
listed hazardous waste (F002).

This determination is for approximately 8 cubic yards of soil that was excavated in August 2023
during replacement of the facility’s onsite sanitary sewer line and for 26 drums (6.5 cubic yards)
of soil and 17 drums of water (approximately 935 gallons) generated in September and
December 2023 during drilling of soil borings and monitoring wells on the site. The 8 cubic yard
soil pile generated from the sanitary sewer excavation is currently covered and stored on the
property. The IDW generated during drilling activities is currently stored on-site in labeled
drums. All the soil and water are and have been stored within the on-site area of contamination.

Representative samples were collected from the soil pile, the drummed IDW soil, and the
drummed IDW water. Soil analysis was conducted as “totals”, not TCLP. Low levels of PCE
were detected in the soil pile, the IDW soil, and the IDW water samples. The results of the
chemical analysis are tabulated below. Only chemicals detected by analysis are shown in the
table.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                              20
            Table I: Media Pollutant and Applicable Risk Based Concentrations

                                            Assessment of Risk Based Concentration


                      PCE                                                         20 x TCLP
       Media      Concentration PCE: Soil Direct         PCE: Water (ppb)      Limit PCE for Soil
                                 Contact (ppm)                                       (ppm)

      Soil Pile     0.0004 ppm            1,800                  N/A                    14

      IDW Soil     0.00042 ppm            1,800                  N/A                    14

     IDW Water        0.89 ppb             N/A                  5,600                  N/A



A No Longer Contained-In Determination is required to demonstrate that the soil and water do
not qualify as characteristic hazardous waste, that concentrations of dry cleaning solvent-related
chemicals are below protective levels, and, if applicable, that land disposal restrictions are met.

To demonstrate that the soil “no longer contains” hazardous waste, the following conditions
need to be met:

   1. The soil (a solid) must not exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste (must not be
      reactive or toxic). The potential for soil containing a waste to exhibit the toxicity
      characteristic is evaluated through comparison of constituent concentrations in leachate,
      extracted from the waste, using the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, also
      called TCLP, with the limits specified at 40 CFR, Part 261.24. Representative (total)
      chemical concentrations for the soil are compared to a value of 20 times the TCLP limit
      (to account for the 20 to 1 dilution inherent in the TCLP analysis method) to determine if
      the limits could potentially be exceeded. If the 20 times TCLP limit for any chemical is
      exceeded, then the waste may be a characteristic waste. The 20 times TCLP limit for
      PCE is 14 parts per million or 14,000 parts per billion. The soil does not fail the toxicity
      characteristic for PCE. The soil is not a characteristic hazardous waste.
   2. The water must not exhibit a characteristic of a hazardous waste (must not be ignitable
      or corrosive). Based on knowledge of process, DEQ has determined that the water is
      neither ignitable nor corrosive.
   3. Concentrations of hazardous constituents from listed waste must be below health-based
      levels. Currently, it is DEQ policy that if soil is to be taken to a solid waste permitted
      Subtitle D lined landfill, then concentrations of hazardous constituents should be below
      the DEQ Construction Worker Risk Based Concentration for direct contact. Currently this



Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                           21
      RBC for PCE is 1,800 ppm. The concentrations of PCE detected in the soil pile and the
      IDW soil are well below the construction worker direct contact RBC.
   4. For water, DEQ’s current policy is that if the water is to be taken to a Clean Water Act-
      permitted wastewater treatment facility, then concentrations of hazardous constituents
      must be below the Groundwater in Excavation RBC. Currently this RBC for PCE is 5,600
      ppb. The concentration of PCE in the IDW water is well below this RBC.
   5. RCRA land disposal restrictions do not apply because the waste was not removed from
      the area of contamination prior to this determination.

The table above illustrates the sample results compared to the applicable DEQ RBCs and
TCLP.

Underlying constituents of PCE might be present in the soil at concentrations below the
minimum reporting levels shown in the laboratory analytical data. Using the MRL concentrations
and our knowledge of process, we can assume the following about the soil and water:

   •   It would not be ignitable, corrosive nor reactive;
   •   Concentrations of underlying constituents would be below toxicity characteristic levels;
   •   Concentrations of underlying constituents would be below DEQ protective levels.

Based on review of the data and the above findings, DEQ has determined that the soil pile from
the excavated sewer line and the soil and groundwater IDW generated during drilling and
sampling activities at the ZY Mobility site do not exhibit characteristics of a hazardous waste.
The concentrations of detected dry cleaner solvents in the water and soil samples are below the
DEQ’s generic Construction and Excavation and Construction Worker RBCs, respectively. The
soil does not pose an unacceptable risk to industrial worker exposure under the waste
management scenario proposed. If this soil is disposed of at a hazardous waste permitted
Subtitle C or a solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill that DEQ has approved for this
purpose, the waste will be considered to no longer contain hazardous waste. Similarly, if this
water is discharged, with the approval of the sanitary sewer authority, to the collection system
for its publicly owned treatment works [or "transported to (specified facility) and managed in its
CWA permitted wastewater treatment unit"], DEQ agrees this wastewater will no longer contain
hazardous waste. If the waste or wastewater is not managed and disposed of in accordance
with these conditions of approval, this No Longer Contained-In Determination does not apply,
the waste remains hazardous waste, and must be managed and disposed of in compliance with
applicable hazardous waste regulations.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                             22
                                         Appendix B

               Example Scenarios: Conducting Contained-In Determinations

Scenario #1: Contaminated soil excavated from a Cleanup site will be managed at a solid
waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill

A cleanup site at a former dry cleaner is under DEQ oversight in the Voluntary Cleanup
Program. As part of the cleanup, the responsible party excavated 200 tons of soil contaminated
with tetrachloroethylene, which is determined to be an F002 listed hazardous waste. The soil
was stockpiled temporarily on the site and representative soil samples were collected to
characterize the levels of contamination in the pile. The consultant for the site submitted a
request to DEQ for a No Longer Contained-In Determination for the soil. Soil sample results
indicated the soil contained up to 8,000 µg/Kg (8 mg/Kg) total PCE. The DEQ project manager
first determined that the soil was not a characteristic hazardous waste because the total PCE
concentration is less than 20 times the TCLP criterion of 0.7 mg/L OR because analysis of the
samples using the TCLP did not exceed PCE criterion of 0.7 mg/L. The DEQ project manager
compared the PCE results to the Construction Worker RBC to evaluate whether the material
contained a listed hazardous waste. The concentrations of PCE in the soil were well below the
applicable RBC. The Project Manager also determined that the LDRs were not applicable in this
case because the soil has been managed on-site in the area of contamination (recall that the
point of generation is when the soil leaves the AOC). Because the levels of contamination in the
soil are below the applicable RBC and the material did not exhibit a hazardous waste
characteristic, DEQ approved disposal of the soil at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a
solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill.

Scenario #2: IDW consisting of 4 drums of water will be managed at a wastewater treatment
facility

At the dry cleaner site in Scenario #1, four drums of investigation derived wastewater were
collected during the installation and sampling of monitoring wells. A representative sample of
the water found it contained PCE at 200 µg/L, making it an F-listed hazardous waste. The DEQ
project manager knew that disposal to the POTW on-site was not an option; therefore, off-site
disposal at a licensed waste treatment facility was selected as the next best disposal option.
The concentration of PCE in the water was well below the Construction and Excavation Worker
RBC. Because the levels of contamination in the water were below the applicable RBC, DEQ
approved transport and disposal of the wastewater to a Clean Water Act permitted wastewater
treatment facility in Portland.




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                        23
                                            Appendix C

         Example Addendum: Extending a No Longer Contained-In Determination

Note: Use the most recent memo template, available on QNet.

Memorandum

Date: 2/10/2024

To: Project File, ZY Mobility, ECSI 1234

From: Joe Brown, Project Manager, WR Cleanup Program

Subject: No Longer Contained-In Determination for ZY Mobility Site, Medford, Oregon
(ECSI 1234)

The purpose of this Addendum is to extend the findings of the No Longer Contained-In
Determination previously filed for this site. The request to include an additional quantity of
contaminated media aims to account for waste generated during the removal process
associated with utility work in the second phase of development on this property.

The levels of contamination are expected to be the same or less than those previously identified
in the original determination. DEQ Cleanup Project Manager Joe Brown (or "Eliot Ness, DEQ
HW Inspector") verified this during review of ["the existing analytical record in support of site
characterization to date" - or - "new sample results on this waste" - and - "which adequately
support this waste characterization"]. Therefore, DEQ finds that all the conditions of the previous
No Longer Contained-In Determination are applicable.

Based on the proposed work and the size of the excavations, it is estimated that 50 to 100 tons
of soil will be removed. The project requests approval to manage up to 150 tons under the
conditions outlined in the previous approval. DEQ approves this NLCI determination under the
following conditions. The soil must be disposed at a hazardous waste permitted Subtitle C or a
solid waste permitted Subtitle D lined landfill with approval of the landfill operator. Copies of the
disposal receipts must be submitted to DEQ. If the waste or wastewater is not managed and
disposed of in accordance with DEQ's conditions of approval, the No Longer Contained-In
Determination does not apply, the waste remains hazardous waste, and must be managed and
disposed of in compliance with applicable hazardous waste regulations.




9. Record of revisions to directive

Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                              24
  Revision       Date                          Changes                              Editor(s)
                           Clarification of existing procedures.          Jay Collins, Audrey
                           Updates to templates. Addition of an           O'Brien, et al.
   Entire                  example memo evaluating whether an
 document       12/2019    existing NLCI approval will be granted to
                           additional wastes of the same type
                           generated on the same site.
                           • Risk-Based Concentration: For soils, the     Bart Collinsworth, Killian
                           RBC of 'Occupational' was changed to           Condon, Rich Duval, Alex
                           'Construction Worker'. This change             Bertolucci, Ellie Brown
                           provides increased flexibility which in turn
                           may expedite No Longer Contained-In
                           Determinations and subsequent removals
                           while still being protective of human health
                           and the environment.
                           • Alternative RBSs: Introduction of the
                           possibility for DEQ toxicologists to endorse
                           alternative RBCs under certain
                           circumstances, particularly for soils with
                           naturally occurring metals within natural
                           background ranges. HW staff have the final
                           approval for any alternative RBC.
                           • Treatment requirements: Emphasized that
                           the No Longer Contained-In Determination
                           can be made irrespective of the treatment
   Entire
                06/2024    status of the contaminated media, clarifying
 document
                           that media can be considered NLCI
                           regardless of treatment completion.
                           • Area of Contamination Policy: The
                           provided definition of AOC was modified to
                           make clear that defining and determining
                           the AOC before requesting a NLCI
                           Determination is crucial for ensuring that
                           waste management activities remain
                           compliant and effective within RCRA
                           guidelines.
                           • Addition of the descriptor 'lined' for
                           Subtitle D landfills: It is important to
                           explicitly state this requirement because
                           Oregon has some older Subtitle D landfills
                           without linings which do not meet the
                           current protective standards required for
                           NLCI waste disposal. This clarification is
                           found throughout the document.


Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                        25
                           • General clarifications: Some sections
                           were reworded to improve clarity and
                           readability without altering the original
                           meaning of the text.
                           • Appendices updates: The examples and
                           templates provided in the appendices were
                           updated to reflect the above changes.
 All of         7/5/24     Reviewed for clarity and consistency with   Lauren Wirtis
 document                  DEQ style guide. Track changes turned on
 except                    for proposed edits or comments used.
 appendices




Internal Management Directive: Conducting Contained-In Determinations for Environmental
Media                                                                                     26
