Landfill, Crematory, and Non-Technical
Updates 2026
Draft Fiscal Impact Statement

Introduction
DEQ invites public input on proposed permanent rule amendments to chapter 340 of the
Oregon Administrative Rules.

Fee analysis
This rulemaking does not involve fees.

Statement of fiscal and economic impact
Fiscal and economic impact
There are two main fiscal impacts of the proposed rules.
First, the proposed rules addressing SB726 require advanced methane detection technology to
be used at municipal solid waste landfills in Benton County will have a fiscal impact on the one
source that will be required to perform this monitoring. The source will be required to pay for
staff, consultants, or third-party contractors to perform monitoring in accordance with the
proposed rules. DEQ proposes to allow landfills outside of Benton County to use this advanced
methane detection technology. If a landfill chooses to use this advanced technology, it would be
on a voluntary basis and at the discretion of the landfill owner.
Second, the proposed rules addressing HB 3729 which establish an upper limit on the required
operating temperature for crematory incinerators may have a positive fiscal impact on crematory
incinerators owners and operators who have installed an incinerator on or after March 13, 1993.
These owners and operators may burn less fuel operating at a lower temperature and are
expected to see an overall reduction in their operational costs. Owners and operators of
crematory incinerators that were installed prior to this date remain subject to the same
temperature limit of 1,600o F and are not expected to have a fiscal impact.
The non-technical updates are not expected to have a fiscal impact.

Statement of cost of compliance
State agencies



                                                                                               1
There are no impacts expected for state agencies as a result of this rulemaking.

Local governments
Landfills: The proposed landfill advanced methane detection monitoring rules do not apply to
any local governments directly.
Crematory Temperatures: For any local governments that own or operate a crematory
incinerator, the municipal government should expect their operational costs to either remain the
same or be reduced based on the date the crematory incinerator was installed.
Non-technical updates are not expected to have a fiscal impact on local governments.

Public
The public is not directly regulated by the proposed rules. However, owners and operators of
facilities affected by this rulemaking could pass costs or savings on to the public by changing
the costs of goods or services. DEQ does not have available data or information to estimate the
public impacts further. In addition, if other landfills voluntarily use the proposed advanced
methane detection monitoring technology, DEQ expects the public will experience benefits from
reduced methane emissions from landfill operations.

Large businesses - businesses with more than 50 employees
Crematory Temperatures: For large businesses, the cost to comply with the proposed crematory
incinerator rules is identical to costs described under local governments.
Landfills: For large businesses, the cost to comply with the proposed landfill rules is identical to
costs described under local governments. The one municipal solid waste landfill in Benton
County that will be subject to the proposed enhanced monitoring rules will need to pay for
monitoring services or staff to perform monitoring according to the proposed rules.
DEQ obtained cost estimates from Sniffer Robotics, Inc., a company who performs landfill
surface monitoring that would be compliant with the proposed rules. For a landfill that is
approximately 150 acres, the cost for an initial visit is $10,000. The initial visit cost includes
getting the monitoring staff to the site and performing monitoring of the landfill surface. The rules
require that surface emissions monitoring take place quarterly, meaning this initial visit cost
would be incurred four times per year. The total annual cost for four visits would be
approximately $40,000.
Landfill rules in Division 239 require owners and operators to take corrective actions when the
monitoring identifies a surface leak, then remonitor the locations where leaks were identified to
ensure they have been fixed. This remonitoring event costs approximately $2,500 but can
increase in cost if there are a significant number of locations to remonitor. For this fiscal
estimate, DEQ assumed that each quarter the owner or operator will have two remonitoring
events. In any quarter where there is an additional remonitoring event, the overall cost will go up
$2,500 per occurrence.
          $10,000 per quarter for initial monitoring, 4 Quarters = $40,000
          $2,500 per remonitor, two remonitoring each quarter, 4 Quarters = $20,000.


                                                                                                       2
          Total expected annual fiscal impact: $60,000


Small businesses – businesses with 50 or fewer employees
For small businesses, the cost to comply with the crematory incinerator proposed rules is the
same as the costs described under local governments.
No small businesses are expected to be affected by the proposed landfill advanced methane
detection monitoring rules.


ORS 183.336 Cost of Compliance Effect on Small Businesses
       a. Estimated number of small businesses and types of businesses and industries with
          small businesses subject to proposed rule.
DEQ has issued 15 Basic Air Contaminant Discharge Permits to crematory incinerator owners
and operators who incinerate less than 20 tons per year.
DEQ has assigned 73 facilities to the General Air Contaminant Discharge Permit for crematory
incinerator operations with 20 or more tons per year incinerated.
Assuming all Basic and General ACDP holders are small businesses, these proposed rules
could affect 88 small businesses.
There are no small businesses subject to the proposed landfill advanced methane detection
rules.
       b. Projected reporting, recordkeeping and other administrative activities, including costs
          of professional services, required for small businesses to comply with the proposed
          rule.
The proposed crematory incinerator rules do not require any additional activities.
       c. Projected equipment, supplies, labor and increased administration required for small
          businesses to comply with the proposed rule.
The proposed crematory incinerator rules will not require any additional resources.
       d. Describe how DEQ involved small businesses in developing this proposed rule.
DEQ included small business representatives on the Advisory Committee that advised DEQ on
the cost of compliance for small businesses, including the owner of a crematory incinerator and
funeral home.
As the fiscal impact is expected to save facilities money or have no impact, DEQ will
communicate with current permit holders when their permit is proposed to be revised, reissued,
or reassigned to reflect the temperature changes.

Documents relied on for fiscal and economic impact


                                                                                                  3
                Document title              Document location
List of Air Quality Permits      DEQ Headqarters
                                 700 NE Multnomah St. Suite 600
                                 Portland OR, 97232




                                                                  4
Advisory committee fiscal review
DEQ appointed an advisory committee.
As ORS 183.333 requires, DEQ will ask for the committee’s recommendations on:
   •   Whether the proposed rules would have a fiscal impact.
   •   The extent of the impact.
   •   Whether the proposed rules would have a significant adverse impact on small
       businesses; if so, then how DEQ can comply with ORS 183.540 to reduce that impact.
The committee will review the draft fiscal and economic impact statement, and document its
recommendations in the meeting summary.

Housing cost
As ORS 183.534 requires, DEQ evaluated whether the proposed rules would have an effect on
the development cost of a 6,000-square-foot parcel and construction of a 1,200-square-foot
detached, single-family dwelling on that parcel.
DEQ determined the proposed rules would have no effect on the development costs.
For the crematory incinerator changes, owners and operators will have no impact or a positive
impact, but these changes are unlikely to impact housing costs.
The landfill monitoring changes are unlikely to have an effect on housing costs. DEQ does not
have further information on whether this will occur and will not further speculate regarding how
business owners may pass along costs to consumers.




                                                                                                   5
Racial equity
ORS 183.335(2)(a)(F) requires state agencies to provide a statement identifying how adoption
of this rule will affect racial equity in this state.
Staff anticipate limited to no impacts on racial equity in the state resulting from the proposed
rules. Adoption of the proposed rules would affect crematory incinerator owners and operators
across the state and one municipal solid waste landfill in Benton County. Since the proposed
rules will apply equally across all crematory incinerators and to one specific facility in Benton
County, there is no expected impact on racial equity in the state. Establishing these
requirements, as proposed, will align Oregon Administrative Rules with Oregon Revised
Statutes as necessary to protect public health.




                                                                                                    6
Environmental justice considerations
ORS 182.545 requires natural resource agencies to consider the effects of their actions on
environmental justice issues. Environmental justice is the fair treatment and meaningful
involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin, culture, education or income
with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws,
regulations and policies.
DEQ is committed to incorporating environmental justice best practices into its programs and
decision-making, to ensure all people in Oregon have equitable environmental and public health
protections. The DEQ Air Contaminant Discharge Permit and Title V Operating Permit programs
are designed to regulate and reduce emissions from facilities in Oregon. Environmental justice
communities are often fence-line communities that are disproportionately affected by pollution.
Adopting the proposed rules includes statutory updates required of the air program that are
expected to reduce emissions from crematory incinerators and more effective surface emissions
monitoring at the Benton County landfill. Overburdened communities may see environmental
benefits from these changes.



Non-discrimination statement
DEQ does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age, sex,
religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status in the administration of its programs
and activities.
For translation or other formats, visit DEQ’s Civil Rights and Environmental Justice page.




                                                                                                     7
