Administrative Search
Warrant Procedures
                        State ol 0reg:)n
                        ~Of
                        Environ~ I
                        Oua!il:y




                        Division Name
                        Program Name
                        811 SW 6th Avenue
                        Portland, OR 97204
                        Phone:     (503) 229-5696
                                   (800) 452-4011
                        Fax:       (503) 229-6762
                        Contact: Jane Doe
                        www. oregon.gov/DEQ


                        DEQ is a leader in
                        restoring, maintaining
                        and enhancing the quality
                        of Oregon's air, land and
                        water.




                           Last Updated: 05/28/2014
                           By: Susan E1worth
Alternative formats (Braille, large type) of this document can be made available.
Contact DEQ's Office of Communications & Outreach, Portland, at (503) 229-5696, or toll-free in Oregon at
1-800-452-4011, ext. 5696.




Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                  ii
Administrative Search Warrant Procedures



Disclaimer
This directive is intended solely as guidance for DEQ employees. It does not constitute
rulemaking by the Environmental Quality Commission and may not be relied upon to create
an enforceable right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by
any person. With written managerial approval, DEQ employees may deviate from this
directive. DEQ anticipates revising this directive from time to time as conditions warrant.




Document Development
Prepared By: ...___:::=""rLvV\r-M/h..J   ~~
Reviewed By:      'b1vv01v~ ~ ~ ~ J..._
Approved By:      6'\,\, fuu»J                                Date:




                                                                                              .lll
     a le f           ntents


1.    Purpose
2.    Applicability
3.    Background
4.    Directive
5.    Appendices




                               IV
1 . Intent/Purpose/Statement of Need
The purposes of this memorandum are to familiarize inspectors and other Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) personnel with their statutory authority to inspect facilities under DEQ
jurisdiction and provide guidance on how to proceed in the event that access to either a property or
documents is denied and an administrative search warrant is needed.


2 . Applicability
This IMD is to be used by all DEQ inspectors to determine how and when they can enter onto a property
and inspect documents.


3 . Background
DEQ's primary investigatory authority is found in Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 468.095. ORS
468.095(1) gives DEQ the "power to enter upon and inspect, at any reasonable time, any public or private
property, premises or place for the purpose of investigating either an actual or suspected source of water
pollution or air pollution or air contamination or to ascertain compliance or noncompliance with any rule or
standard adopted or order or permit issued pursuant to ORS 448.305, 454.010 to 454.040, 454.205 to
454.255, 454.505 to 454.535, 454.605 to 454.755 and ORS chapters 468, 468A and 468B." This statute
grants DEQ authority to inspect a property to determine compliance with sewage treatment (including on-
site), water and air quality regulations. For land quality and other programs not covered by ORS 468.095,
DEQ's authority to inspect a property is granted under other statutes. These other statutes, as well as ORS
468.095, are set forth in Attachment 1.

Additionally, some DEQ regulations grant DEQ authority to inspect a property or to review documents.
Finally, most permits issued by DEQ also contain provisions which grant DEQ consent to enter the property
covered by the permit for an inspection and to review documents held by the permittee.

This IMD provides guidance about when DEQ may need to obtain an administrative search warrant in order
to inspect property or records and the process for doing so.


4.. Directive
4.1    Authority to enter and inspect without a warrant

While the provisions outlined above grant DEQ the authority to either enter a property or to review
documents, a person still has the right to refuse to allow DEQ to do so. Administrative inspections must be
conducted consistent with Oregon and federal constitutional guarantees against unreasonable searches and
seizures. Simply stated, a person generally has a constitutional right to deny DEQ access in the absence of a
warrant, even if a permit, statute, or rule requires the person to allow access. Such a refusal may be grounds
for an enforcement action, however, if refusal is in violation of a permit or law. Although the law remains·
unclear on this point, wrongfully obtained evidence may not be admissible in court or administrative
hearings and in some circumstances, it may also give rise to a lawsuit against DEQ.

In the following circumstances, a DEQ insfector has the right to enter onto private property or to obtain the
information it is seeking without a warrant :

4.1.A. Consent to Inspect

There are two types of consent: express and implied. Express consent is fairly simple to identify as the
person in control ofthe property or documents tells DEQ they can enter the property or review the
documents.

There is generally an implied consent to go into the public portions of a business, and to go to the front door
of a home and knock, without violating the privacy interests. An inspector may also go to the side door if
access to the door is visible and accessible from the sidewalk or street. Implied consent can be difficult to
determine and DEQ inspectors should consult with their manager and the Department of Justice (DOJ)
when they are uncertain if consent has been granted.

If the resident has taken actions expressing a denial of consent to access, the inspector may not enter.
Examples of this include where land is posted with a no trespassing sign, or fenced in a manner that makes
it objectively clear that the owner or occupant intends to exclude people.

4.1.B. Emergency or Exigent Circumstances

Where there is an emergency that poses an immediate threat to health or safety, IfDEQ has the authority to
protect against that particular threat, DEQ may enter property without a warrant for the purpose of
responding to the threat. An example of this would be emergency response to a spill. Warrantless entry
without consent may also be permissible in situations where evidence of a violation will be lost or destroyed
if the person carrying out the inspection takes the time to obtain a warrant. DEQ staff should be aware that
the second exception is very narrowly construed. If there is time to get a warrant, warrantless entry is not
justified on the basis of the possible loss or destruction of evidence. If you are in doubt, you should contact
your manager and DOJ .

4.1.C. Open Fields/Plain View Exception

These two doctrines are based on the premise that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy for property
or items in plain view to the public. The plain view doctrine means that any information gathered by an
inspector in "plain view" from a location open to the public does not constitute a search and a warrant is not
required. Similarly, a DEQ inspector is free to enter open areas ofland, (for example, an unfenced yard)
where the owner or occupant has not taken steps making it clear that entry is not permitted. DEQ can also
enter business areas open to the public, such as the front lobby of a business and public right of ways (i.e.,
sidewalks) to gather evidence in plain view. DEQ can also enter a neighboring property with consent of that
property owner, to view an adjoining property.




1
 List and explanations in this section are generally taken from the Oregon Attorney General's (AG's) Administrative Law
Manual2012. See AG's Manual, pages 65-67.
4.2    When should DEQ consider obtaining an Administrative Search Warrant?

DEQ may seek and obtain a search warrant if entry is "denied" or "not consented to" by an owner or
employee of a facility or site. Denial is a clear refusal (verbal or written) to allow access onto the property,
while a lack of consent can mean the absence of personnel to authorize entry. 3 DEQ may also obtain a
search warrant when there is partial denial. Partial denial is where for example, an inspector is given full
access to a facility except for one particular shed, or where the inspector is prohibited from taking samples.
DEQ may also obtain a search warrant in advance of the inspection, when DEQ expects that access will be
denied without actually having been denied access.

DEQ will not seek to obtain an administrative search warrant for every circumstance in which a DEQ
cannot gain access. If the inspector either has been denied access or anticipates that occurring, the inspector
should consult their manager to determine if the circumstances warrant expending DEQ's resources on
obtaining a warrant. The manager should call the lead ELS for the program to discuss the particular facts of
the case.

In general, a search warrant is legally feasible if the need for it is based on a routine inspection program, or
the inspector has reason to believe that a violation has occurred. A court will issue a warrant for an
administrative search upon a showing of "reasonable cause." The test for reasonable cause is whether
reasonable legislative or administrative standards exist to govern the inspection. OCE, in consultation with
DOJ, can also help the program determine if reasonable cause exists in the particular case.

4.3     Procedure for Obtaining a Warrant

In order to obtain an administrative search warrant, DEQ will need to draft several documents, including (1)
a supporting affidavit; (2) the proposed warrant; and (3) the return of warrant. Templates ofthese
documents are found in Attachment 2 and additional examples of affidavits and other documents can be
provided by OCE or DOJ.

IfDEQ determines that the circumstances warrant expending DEQ's resources on obtaining a warrant, OCE
will coordinate and work with the inspector and DOJ throughout the drafting process.

4.3.A. Required Documents

The inspector will prepare a draft affidavit that clearly and concisely explains whether the inspection is a
routine inspection or why DEQ has reasonable cause to believe that a violation exists, background
information on the facility (including past compliance issues related to the conduct alleged in this case),
what information DEQ wishes to obtain, where that information is likely to be located, and the facts
supporting why a search warrant is needed (i.e. denial of access). If any of this information was obtained
through a confidential complaint, the complanant' s identity should not be identified in the affidavit and
remain confidential. When the affidavit is in final form, it is signed by the inspector before a notary.

The actual warrant is the order, to be signed by a judge, authorizing DEQ to enter onto the property. The
warrant must identifY everything that DEQ intends to undertake during the inspection including taking
photographs, reviewing/copying/removing records, inspecting equipment, and collecting samples. The

3
 A Denial of Access form is available for inspectors and should be used to document any time that an inspector is denied access.
The form is available through the Agencywide Inspector Manual.
warrant must also identify who is allowed entry under the warrant and describe the manner and timeframe
for conducting the inspection. IfDEQ wishes for a sworn peace officer (Oregon State Police or another law
enforcement officer) to join DEQ when accessing the property, the warrant must specifically state so.
Failure to specifically identify everything that might be called for during the inspection, could make those
activities a violation of the person's 4th amendment rights.

The return of warrant serves to document how and when the warrant was executed and what evidence was
taken.

The affidavit, warrant and return of warrant may be drafted by DEQ regional and OCE staff, but must be
reviewed by DOJ.

These documents, particularly the affidavit, may take a few drafts. Some courts also require original
signatures on the affidavit. For that reason, the region should contact OCE sufficiently far in advance of the
need for a warrant so the documents can be reviewed by DOJ in a timely manner.

4.3.B. Presenting affidavit and warrant to court

The warrant is obtained from the Circuit Court for the county in which the property is located. Procedures
vary from county to county, and sometimes judge to judge. DOJ will contact the court in advance to
determine that particular county's procedures so the inspector knows who to report to at the courthouse and
what process to follow. Generally, the inspector will present the affidavit and warrant to a judge for
signature. It is unnecessary and unlikely that DOJ will appear before the judge with the inspector, so the
inspector should be prepared to answer any questions that the judge may have. The inspector may be asked
to answer those questions under oath. OCE and DOJ will help the inspector to prepare for this. The
inspector should also inform the judge that DOJ is available to answer any questions regarding the
administrative search warrant. Once the judge signs the warrant, DEQ now has the court-ordered authority
to inspect the property in compliance with the warrant.

4.4     Procedure for Executing a Warrant

4.4.A. Pre-Execution Briefing

DEQ personnel who will be conducting the inspection, and preferably the peace officer assisting with the
warrant, should meet to discuss the logistics of the inspection. 5 Note that the function of a peace officer.
during the execution of a warrant is to assist DEQ in accessing and securing the premises and is not to assist
DEQ in its inspection. The facility should not be informed of the warrant or the date on which DEQ intends
to execute the warrant.

All participants should be briefed on the layout of the property, the locations of items to be inspected,
sampling procedures, the likelihood of encountering confidential documents, and other details. Each
participant should be clear about their role in the execution of the warrant. Any supplies that will be
necessary to bring to the inspection, such as sample containers and equipment, photo copying equipment,
boxes and envelopes for copied records, and tools for cutting locks and opening containers should be


5
  In small-town rural jurisdictions, be mindful of the peace officer's potential relationship with and/or loyalty to the facility
owner and act accordingly. In these circumstances, the inspector should avoid discussing the facts surrounding DEQ's decision to
inspect the facility.
identified and obtained prior to the date of the inspection. 6 In general, you should prepare for an inspection
conducted pursuant to a warrant in the same manner as any other inspection, with the caveat that you may
need more staff to assist. For example, if you plan to review a large number of documents, you will want to
assign DEQ staff to a document review team, or if there will be a significant number of people present at the
property, you may want DEQ staff available to ensure they do not tamper with any evidence.

4.4.B. Executing the Search Warrant

Typically, a search warrant sets forth the timeframe or date on which the inspection must be conducted.
Execution should occur as soon as practicable within the timeframe allowed in the warrant. This is
especially true if DEQ was denied access and DEQ believes there are on-going violations with potential for
environmental harm, or documents substantiating the violation might be destroyed.

DEQ should bring the original and at least one copy of the warrant to the property. DEQ staff executing the
warrant should carry identification and tell the person in control of the property his or her name, title and
purpose for being there. DEQ staff should read the warrant aloud and give a copy to the person in control of
the property (hereinafter referred to as "owner/operator"). The time and date of the execution of the warrant
must be entered on the original warrant, and the warrant must be signed by a DEQ representative present
during the execution. Even if the owner/operator gives consent to enter the property when presented with a
warrant, the warrant should be read, a copy given, and the time and dated entered onto the warrant.

In the vast majority of cases, an owner/operator will not refuse access to a DEQ inspector who has a
warrant. If an inspector is denied access, the inspector should contact DOJ and the inspector's manager
immediately for direction on next steps. If the inspector is accompanied by a peace officer, the officer can
be called upon to ensure entry and cooperation by facility employees.

In situations where the facility appears vacated or otherwise absent of attendants and forcible entry (i.e. lock
cutting) is required, you should be prepared to force the lock. Inspectors should bring along a replacement
lock and should either arrange for a locksmith to assist with gaining entry or bring tools necessary to remove
the lock. Once the inspection is complete, the point of entry should be re-secured with a replacement lock
in order to protect DEQ from allegations by the owner of subsequent damage or wrongdoing to the property.
The warrant should be left for the owner in a conspicuous place as well as an explanation regarding any re-
secured access points (i.e. "call us and we will mail you the key"). Bring a clear, plastic bag to the site in
anticipation of the need to leave these documents outdoors.

Persons present on the property have the right to leave without being detained or questioned, provided their
exit does not create security issues. Their exit should be monitored to prevent them from removing or
tampering with any items described in the warrant. DEQ may interview any person who remains present,
although that person is under no obligation to answer questions. Owners/operators and their attomey(s) are
allowed to be present during an inspection, provided they do not interfere with the inspection. If a person
is allowed to remain on the site, they should be monitored to ensure they do not tamper with any evidence.

If the warrant allows for the review of documents, all documents identified in the warrant may be inspected
and copied. If a copier is not available at the facility or the number of documents is too voluminous to allow
for copying, an inspector may take originals from the facility if the warrant allows copying of the

6
 Further information on pre-planning for an inspection is provided in the Agencywide Inspector Manual. Additionally, OCE can
assist in pre-warrant planning.
documents. If an inspector discovers documents during the inspection that need to be copied which are not
set forth in the warrant, the inspector should contact DOJ immediately for direction on whether or not the
warrant needs to be amended prior to taking those documents. Any documents taken from the facility
should be copied and returned as soon as possible. The owner/operator or attorney has no right to examine
the records being inspected or copied, or to request copies at the time of the inspection. Copies can be
provided through the regular public record request process. The inspector will need to fill out an inventory
of any documents taken from the facility. A form for an inventory is attached in Attachment 2.

If the inspector finds documents that are labeled as protected by the attorney-client privilege (confidential
communications that are in furtherance of legal services) or are claimed as confidential by the
owner/operator, the documents should be sealed in separate envelopes or boxes and clearly marked as
potentially privileged.

Any samples collected must also be added to the inventory of items seized. DEQ is not required to provide
a portion of any samples collected, except for samples related to the cleanup of hazardous substances. 7 The
owner/operator is free to collect its own samples from the same material that DEQ samples unless (1) doing
so will not allow DEQ to obtain the required amount of material for analysis or (2) the time required to
collect both samples or the conditions under which the samples are being collected pose a threat to
inspector's safety and well being. Iftll.e owner/operator wishes to obtain a portion of the samples collected
by DEQ, the inspector should direct them to contact LEAD.

The final step in executing the warrant is completing and filing the "Return of Inspection Warrant" prepared
as part of the initial application for the warrant with the court who issued the warrant. This documents how
and when the warrant was executed, and that the inspection has been concluded. Attached to the return of
warrant must be an inventory of any documents seized or samples taken.




7
    See ORS 465.250.
5. Attachments
                                             Attachment 1
                                      DEQ Investigatory Authorities 8

Chapter 459 -    Solid Waste Management

459.385 Entry upon private premises authorized; access to records. The Department of Environmental
Quality or county, district or city board of health personnel, authorized environmental health specialists or
other authorized city or county personnel may enter upon the premises of any person regulated under ORS
459.005 to 459.105,459.205 to 459.385,466.005 to 466.385 and 466.992 or under regulations adopted
pursuant to ORS 450.075,450.810,450.820 and 451.570, at reasonable times, to determine compliance with
and to enforce ORS 450.075,450.810,450.820,451.570,459.005 to 459.105,459.205 to 459.385,466.005
to 466.385 and 466.992 and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto. The department shall also
have access to any pertinent records, including but not limited to blueprints, operation and maintenance
records and logs, operating rules and procedures. As used in this section, "pertinent records" does not
include financial information unless otherwise authorized by law. [Formerly 459.285; 1993 c.526 §9; 1993
c.560 §45; 2003 c.547 §114]

Chapter 465 - Hazardous Waste and Hazardous Materials I

    465.250 Accessibility of information about hazardous substances; entering property or facility;
samples; confidentiality. (1) Any person who has or may have information, documents or records relevant
to the identification, nature and volume of a hazardous substance generated, treated, stored, transported to,
disposed of or released at a facility and the dates thereof, or to the identity or financial resources of a
potentially responsible person, shall, upon request by the Department of Environmental Quality or its
authorized representative, disclose or make available for inspection and copying such information,
documents or records.
     (2) Upon reasonable basis to believe that there may be a release of a hazardous substance at or upon any
property or facility, the department or its authorized representative may enter any property or facility at any
reasonable time to:
     (a) Sample, inspect, examine and investigate;
     (b) Examine and copy records and other information; or
     (c) Carry out removal or remedial action or any other action authorized by ORS 465.200 to 465.545 and
465.900.                                                                             -
     (3) If any person refuses to provide information, documents, records or to allow entry under subsections
(1) and (2) of this section, the department may request the Attorney General to seek from a court of
competent jurisdiction an order requiring the person to provide such information, documents, records or to
allow entry.
     (4)(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection, the department or its authorized
representative shall, upon request by the current owner or operator of the facility or property, provide a
portion of any sample obtained from the property or facility to the owner or operator.
     (b) The department may decline to give a portion of any sample to the owner or operator if, in the
judgment of the department or its authorized representative, apportioning a sample:

8
    Oregon Revised Statutes 2011 Edition: https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills laws/Pages/ORS.aspx
    (A) May alter the physical or chemical properties of the sample such that the portion of the sample
retained by the department would not be representative of the material sampled; or
    (B) Would not provide adequate volume to perform the laboratory analysis.
    (c) Nothing in this subsection shall prevent or umeasonably hinder or delay the department or its
authorized representative in obtaining a sample at any facility or property.
    (5) Persons subject to the requirements of this section may make a claim of confidentiality regarding any
information, documents or records, in accordance with ORS 466.090. [Formerly 466.565]

Chapter 466- Hazardous Waste and Hazardous Materials II

466.185 Investigation upon complaint; hearings; orders. (1) The Department ofEnvironmental Quality
shall investigate any complaint made to it by any person that the operation of any generator, air or water
transporter or hazardous waste disposal, storage or treatment site is unsafe or that the operation is in
violation of the provisions of ORS 466.005 to 466.385 and 466.992 or the rules adopted under ORS 466.005
to 466.385 and 466.992.

466.195 Monitoring and surveillance program; inspection. (1) The Department ofEnvironmental
Quality shall establish and operate a monitoring, inspection and surveillance program over all hazardous
waste generators, air or water transporters and disposal, storage and treatment sites or may contract with any
qualified public or private agency to do so.
    (2) Any person who generates, stores, treats, transports, disposes of or otherwise handles or has handled
hazardous waste, shall upon request of any officer, employee or representative of the department, furnish
information relating to such waste and permit such person at all reasonable times to have access to and to
copy all records relating to such waste.
    (3) For the purposes of enforcing the provisions of ORS 466.005 to 466.385, any officer, employee or
representative of the department may:
    (a) Enter at reasonable times any establishment or other place where hazardous waste is or has been
generated, stored, treated, disposed of or transported from; and
    (b) Inspect and obtain samples from any person of any such waste and samples of any containers or
labeling for such waste. [Formerly 459.670; 1987 c.540 §14]

466.225 Monitoring site; access. (1) If the Department of Environmental Quality determines that the
presence of hazardous waste at a facility or site at which hazardous waste is or has been stored, treated or
disposed of, or that the release of hazardous waste from a hazardous waste storage, treatment or disposal
facility or site may present a substantial hazard to human health or the environment, the department may
order the owner or operator of the facility or site to conduct any monitoring, testing, analysis and reporting
as the department considers necessary to determine the nature and extent of the hazard.
    (2) If a facility or site is not in operation at the time a determination is made under subsection (1) of this
section and the department finds that the owner of the facility or site could not reasonably be expected to
have actual knowledge of the presence of hazardous waste at the facility or site and of its potential for
release, the department may order the most recent previous owner or operator of the facility or site, who
could most reasonably be expected to have such actual knowledge, to carry out the actions required in
subsection (1) of this section.
    (3) Within 30 days after the department issues an order under subsection (1) or (2) of this section, the
person to whom the order is issued shall submit to the department a proposal for carrying out the required
monitoring, testing, analysis and reporting. The department may require the person to carry out the
monitoring, testing, analysis and reporting described in the proposal and in any modifications to the
proposal that the department considers necessary to determine the nature and extent of the hazard.
     (4) If the department determines that an owner or operator is not able to conduct monitoring, testing,
analysis or reporting required under subsection (1) or (2) of this section in a manner satisfactory to the
department, or if the department considers any such action carried out by an owner or operator to be
unsatisfactory, or if the owner or operator fails to comply with the order, or if the department initially cannot
determine that there is an owner or operator able to conduct such monitoring, testing, analysis or reporting,
the department may:
     (a)(A) Conduct any monitoring, testing or analysis that the department considers reasonable to
determine the nature and extent of the hazard associated with the facility or site; or
     (B) Authorize another state agency, local authority or person to conduct the necessary monitoring,
testing or analysis; and
     (b) Require, by order, the owner or operator to reimburse the department, state agency, local authority or
person for the costs of conducting the monitoring, testing or analysis.
     (5) The department may not require an owner or operator to reimburse the department for the costs of
any action carried out by the department under subsection (4) of this ·section if the department's actions
confirm the results of monitoring, testing, analyses or reporting conducted by an owner or operator under
subsection (1) or (2) ofthis section.
     (6) Any order issued under this section shall be subject to the provisions set forth in ORS 466.190 and
466.200.
     (7) In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the owner or operator of the site or facility shall
allow necessary access according to the requirements of ORS 466.195 to the department or any state
agency, local authority or person conducting the monitoring, testing or analysis required under subsection
 (4)(a) ofthis section. [1987 c.540 §2]

466.310 Monitoring, inspection and surveillance program; access to facility and records. The
Department of Environmental Quality shall establish and operate a monitoring, inspection and surveillance
program over all PCB disposal facilities or may contract with any qualified public or private agency other
than the owner or permittee to do so. Owners and operators of a PCB disposal facility must allow necessary
access to the PCB disposal facility and to its records, including those required by other public agencies, for
the monitoring, inspection and surveillance program to operate. [1985 c.670 §25; 1987 c.540 §46]

466.805 Site inspection; subpoena or warrant. (1) In order to determine compliance with the provisions
ofORS 466.706 to 466.882 and 466.994 and rules adopted under ORS 466.706 to 466.882 and 466.994 and
to enforce the provisions of ORS 466.706 to 466.882 and 466.994, any employees of or an authorized and
identified representative of the Department of Environmental Quality may:
    (a) Enter at reasonable times any establishment or site where an underground storage tank is located;
    (b) Inspect and obtain samples of a regulated substance contained in an underground storage tank; and
    (c) Conduct an investigation of an underground storage tank, associated equipment, contents or the soil,
air or waters of the state surrounding an underground storage tank.
    (2) If any person refuses to comply with subsection (1) of this section, the department or a duly
authorized and identified representative of the department may obtain a warrant or subpoena to allow such
entry, inspection, sampling or copying. [1987 c.539 §30 (enacted in lieu of 468.907)]

Chapter 468 -     Environmental Quality Generally

468.095 Investigatory authority; entry on premises; status of records. (1) The Department of
Environmental Quality shall have the power to enter upon and inspect, at any reasonable time, any public or
private property, premises or place for the purpose of investigating either an actual or suspected source of
water pollution or air pollution or air contamination or to ascertain compliance or noncompliance with any
rule or standard adopted or order or permit issued pursuant to ORS 448.305, 454.010 to 454.040, 454.205 to
454.255, 454.505 to 454.535, 454.605 to 454.755 and ORS chapters 468, 468A and 468B. The
Environmental Quality Commission shall also have access to any pertinent records relating to such property,
including but not limited to blueprints, operation and maintenance records and logs, operating rules and
procedures.
                                                  Attachment 2

Sample forms patterned off of the Oregon Attorney General's Administrative Law Manual and Uniform and
Model Rules of Procedure Under the Administrative Procedures Act, 2012

                         Affidavit in Support of Request for Inspection Warrant

                        IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                                   FOR            COUNTY

STATE OF OREGON, ex rel                       )       Case No. - - - - - - -
-----
           , Director, Oregon                 )
Department of Environmental Quality           )       Affidavit of - - - - - - - -
                                              )       in Support of Request for an
In the Matter of the Application for          )       Inspection Warrant
An Inspection Warrant                         )
                                              )
STATE OF OREGON                               )
County of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                    )

       I,                          , being first duly sworn, depose and say that:

       1.      I am employed by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (Department) as a


       2.      In my capacity as a                          , I am required to inspect (describe type of facility
or property) for the purpose of investigating a source of (categorize type of pollution/investigation such as
water pollution, etc.) and to ascertain compliance with the Department's statutes, rules, standards and permit
conditions relating to the control or prevention of (type of pollution) from the operations. My authority and
duty for inspecting (describe facility or property) derives from ORS _ _ __

     3.  The following (specify the specific facility or property) has been scheduled for inspection:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (Facility).

        4.      On the    of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 20_, I sought entry and permission to inspect this
Facility at approximately       A.M./P.M. I was denied entry without an inspection warrant by

                                                    OR
        4.     The purpose of the inspection might be jeopardized if entry were sought without a warrant
for the following reasons:

        5.       WHEREFORE, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality appears and requests that
the court issue a inspection warrant to inspect the (type of facility or property) described above for the
purpose of investigating a source of (type of pollution) and to ascertain compliance with the Department's
statutes, rules, standards and permit conditions relating to the control or prevention of (type of pollution)
from the operations.

        DATED this _ _day of _ _ _ _ _ _ 20
                      Signature

SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO before me this _ _day of _ _, 20_.

Seal
                      Notary Public for Oregon
                      My Commission Expires:
                                            Inspection Warrant

                        IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                                   FOR            COUNTY

STATE OF OREGON, ex rel                      )       Case No. - - - - - - -
_____, Director, Oregon                      )
Department of Environmental Quality          )       Affidavit of - - - - - - - -
                                             )       in Support of Request for an
In the Matter of the Application for         )       Inspection Warrant
An Inspection Warrant                        )

       TO: The Director of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, or any of his designated
       representatives

       RE:     Location of the property

       IN THE NAME OF THE STATE OF OREGON
       WHEREAS, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality is authorized by ORS _ _ _ __
       to enter the above-described property to conduct an inspection of the (type of facility or property) to
       conduct an inspection of the (facility's) operation and appurtenant land for the purpose of
       investigating a source of(type ofpollution) and ascertaining compliance with the Department's
       statutes, rules, standards and permit conditions relating to the control or prevention of (type of
       pollution) from the operation, and whereas, based on the accompanying affidavits, it appears that
       ---------
                               , the owner(s) or lawful occupant(s) of the               operation located at
       - - - - - - - - - - __________County, Oregon, has not given consent to an
       authorized representative of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to enter onto the
       property for that purpose, thereby frustrating the purpose of the inspection and necessitating the
       issuance of an inspection warrant:

                THEREFORE, YOU ARE HEREBY AUTHORIZED to enter the above-described property
        to conduct an inspection for the purpose of investigating a source of (type of) pollution and
        ascertaining compliance with the Department's statutes, rules, standards and permit conditions
        relating to the control or prevention of (type of pollution) from the operation. This warrant
        authorizes you to enter the property on                           , between the hours of      A.M. to
        __ P.M. You are authorized to obtain the assistance ofthe Oregon State Police to gain access to
        the property, if necessary, and you are to return this warrant to the Circuit Court of _ _ _ __
        County, Oregon, when said inspection has been completed. This warrant shall be executed not later
        than        P.M. on - - - - - - - - -
                DATED at                         , Oregon, at __ A.M./P.M., this __ day of
        ________ 20


                                                             Circuit Court Judge
                                       Return of Inspection Warrant

                        IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                                   FOR            COUNTY

STATE OF OREGON, ex rel                      )       Case No. - - - - - - -
_____, Director, Oregon                      )
Department of Environmental Quality          )       Affidavit of - - - - - - - -
                                             )       in Support of Request for an
In the Matter of the Application for         )       Inspection Warrant
An Inspection Warrant                        )

        I,                     , (title)                    , an authorized representative of the Department
of Environmental Quality of the State of Oregon, certify that I received the original and true copy of the
administrative warrant issued for entry onto the real property located at "'"'(t=o-'-wn:.=.L.)_ _ _ __,_
(county)             , Oregon, for the purpose of investigating a source of (type of pollution) pollution and
ascertaining compliance with the Department's statutes, rules, standards and permit conditions relating to
the control or prevention of (type of pollution) from the operation. I served the true copy of the
administrative warrant at           A.M./P.M. on                     , 20 _,by (state who the warrant was
read to and given to or "by posting the warrant on or about the door at the above-described property.

         The above-described property was entered on the above-stated date and inspected for the purpose of
investigating a source of (type of) pollution and ascertaining compliance with the Department's statutes,
rules, standards and permit conditions relating to the control or prevention of (type of pollution) from the
operation. I hereby return the original administrative warrant.

       DATED this __day of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 20



                                                             Name
                  DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
        EVIDENCE SEIZED PURSUANT TO ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANT

Date of Execution of Search Warrant
                                    -------------------------
Received this date from - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' w h o s e address or location is

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ the following listed items:


  Quantity                        Description of Item                          Location Found




Signature of person from whom items were t a k e n - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Signature of person receiving i t e m s - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
