Evaluating and
Approving Supplemental
Environmental Projects:
Appendix G
Internal Management Directive
                                     This document was prepared by
                                Oregon Department of Environmental Quality

                                    Office of Compliance and Enforcement
                                     700 NE Multnomah Street, Suite 600
                                            Portland Oregon, 97232

                                             Contact: Jenny Root
                                             Phone: 503-229-5696

                                              www.oregon.gov/deq




Translation or other formats
Español | 한국어 | 繁體中文 | Pусский | Tiếng Việt | ‫اﻟﻌﺮﺑﯿﺔ‬
800-452-4011 | TTY: 711 | deqinfo@deq.oregon.gov

Non-discrimination statement
DEQ does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age or sex in administration of
its programs or activities. Visit DEQ’s Civil Rights and Environmental Justice page.
Disclaimer
This directive is intended solely as guidance for DEQ employees. It does not constitute rulemaking
by the Environmental Quality Commission and may not be relied upon to create an enforceable
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any person. With
written managerial approval, DEQ employees may deviate from this directive. DEQ anticipates
revising this directive from time to time as conditions warrant.




Document development
 Prepared By:    Kieran O’Donnell, Jenny Root, Morgan Schafer, Steve Siegel, Lauren Wirtis


 Reviewed By:    Kieran O’Donnell


 Approved By:    /s/ Leah Feldon                                        Date: 12/15/2023
                 Leah Feldon, Director
Table of contents

1.         Intent/purpose/statement of need ................................................................................ 5
2.         Applicability................................................................................................................... 6
3.         Authority ........................................................................................................................ 7
4.         Directive ......................................................................................................................... 8
     4.1      Required criteria .......................................................................................................... 8
     4.2      Preference criteria ......................................................................................................10
     4.3      Small community wastewater treatment plant SEPs ...................................................12
     4.4      Determining the amount of penalty mitigation .............................................................12
     4.5      SEP proposal procedures ...........................................................................................13
     4.6      SEP settlement procedure ..........................................................................................15
     4.7      SEP listening sessions ...............................................................................................15
5.         Record of revisions to the directive............................................................................17




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                                                                 4
1. Intent/purpose/statement of need
A Supplemental Environmental Project is an environmentally beneficial project or activity that is
not required by law, but that a respondent agrees to undertake as part of the settlement of an
enforcement action. SEPs reduce the risk of further pollution, benefit public health, restore and
protect the environment, and promote environmental compliance. In many instances, a SEP is a
critical remedy that may address the harm to a community caused when a polluter violates the
law. SEPs are an important component of the Department of Environmental Quality’s (DEQ)
enforcement program, although they may not be appropriate in the settlement of all enforcement
actions.

This Directive outlines the conditions under which DEQ will consider mitigating a penalty with a
SEP and the actions DEQ will take to engage communities in the SEP selection process.




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                      5
2. Applicability
   1. This Directive applies to assessment of penalties for violations of all environmental
      statutes, rules, permits and orders administered by DEQ.
   2. This Directive sets forth factors for DEQ to consider in exercising its prosecutorial and
      settlement discretion. The Directive is not final agency action and is intended only as
      guidance for staff. DEQ may take action at variance with this Directive.
   3. The Directive does not create any rights, duties, obligations, or defenses, implied or
      otherwise, in any third parties. It is not intended for use in pleading, at hearing, or at trial.




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                         6
3. Authority
DEQ may consider SEPs in settlement pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute 468.130(3) and (4)
and Oregon Administrative Rule 340-012-0170, which allow the Director to mitigate penalties
when the respondent is willing to employ extraordinary means to maintain compliance and when
the settlement is consistent with protecting public health and the environment. In addition, DEQ
has a duty to consider the effects of settling enforcement actions on environmental justice 1
issues. ORS 182.545.




1 Environmental Justice is defined as “the equal protection from environmental and public health risks, fair

treatment and meaningful involvement in decision making of all people regardless of race, color, national
origin, immigration status, income or other identities with respect to the development, implementation and
enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies that affect the environment in which people
live, work, learn and practice spirituality and culture.” 2022 Session Laws 0058, HB4077, Section 10.


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                              7
4. Directive
This Directive creates a means through which DEQ may offer to conditionally reduce penalties
when respondents agree to fund projects that benefit public health and the environment in
Oregon. A respondent is solely responsible for the obligations imposed by a Mutual Agreement
and Final Order. However, a Respondent may elect to execute an agreement with a SEP
recipient to ensure proper implementation of an approved project. In addition, this Directive
encourages DEQ staff to promote meaningful community engagement in the SEP selection
process.

DEQ is committed to implementing this directive in a manner consistent with its mission, to be a
leader in restoring, maintaining, and enhancing the quality of Oregon’s air, land, and water.
SEPs can advance DEQ’s mission by protecting children’s health, the health of vulnerable
populations, and the health of all Oregonians; advancing environmental justice; pollution
prevention; encouraging the development of innovative technologies that protect human health
and the environment; and addressing the harmful impacts of climate change.

To ensure that performance of a SEP advances DEQ’s mission, benefits the environment, and
deters violations of environmental laws, DEQ staff are directed to approve a SEP proposal if it is
consistent with the direction in section 4.1 through 4.6 below.

4.1 Required criteria
To be approvable, a SEP must meet the following Required Criteria:

   1. The SEP primarily benefits public health or the environment in furtherance of DEQ’s
      mission to be a leader in restoring, maintaining, and enhancing the quality of Oregon’s
      air, land and water.

   2. The SEP must meet one of the following categories: 2
         a. Public Health – Public health projects include those that provide diagnostic,
            preventative and health care treatment related to the actual or potential harm to
            human health caused by the violation or in the community where the violation
            occurred. Examples of public health SEPs include blood lead level testing, asthma
            screening and treatment and mobile health clinics.
         b. Pollution Prevention – Pollution prevention projects prevent waste or pollution at
            the source, before its generated, by conserving energy or natural resources, or by
            making process changes (such as chemical substitutions) or by making a process
            more efficient so that less waste is created for a given amount of product;




2 Additional information about SEP categories may be found in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

Supplemental Environmental Projects Policy 2015 Update, available here: sepupdatedpolicy15.pdf
(epa.gov)


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                        8
         c. Climate Mitigation or Resilience - A climate mitigation project may promote
            measures to mitigate the harmful impacts of climate change by reducing
            greenhouse gas emissions or analyze the life cycle of materials to reduce
            consumption of natural resources. A climate resilience project may enhance a
            community’s ability to adapt to or cope with the harmful effects of climate change;
         d. Pollution Reduction – Pollution reduction projects reduce the amount and/or
            danger presented by some form of pollution, often by providing better treatment
            and disposal of the pollutant;
         e. Environmental Restoration and Protection – Environmental restoration and
            protection projects improve the condition of the land, air or water. For example, by
            planting native riparian vegetation, a respondent could improve aquatic habitat by
            reducing water temperatures. Projects that include plantings must include at least
            two years of vegetation maintenance;
         f.   Environmental Compliance Promotion – Environmental compliance promotion
              projects provide training or technical support to other members of the regulated
              community to 1) identify, achieve, and maintain compliance with applicable
              statutory or regulatory requirements or 2) go beyond compliance with applicable
              environmental requirements by reducing the generation, release, or disposal of
              pollutants;
         g. Emergency Planning and Preparedness – Emergency planning and
            preparedness projects provide assistance to responsible state or local emergency
            response or planning entities. Such assistance may include the purchase of
            computers, software, communication systems, chemical emission detection and
            inactivation equipment, HAZMAT equipment, or training. This assistance enables
            these organizations to fulfill their obligations under the Emergency Planning and
            Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA).
         h. Environmental Education, Training, or Community Outreach – A project in this
            category may provide assistance, either through direct contracting or through
            funding, to prepare, publish, produce, and/or distribute outreach, training, or
            educational materials on environmental issues significant to Oregon. Examples
            might include direct training or assistance to an operator of a small community
            wastewater treatment plant or contribution to environmental inspection training
            programs conducted by non-profit organizations. Some general educational
            projects, sponsorship of seminars, tours of environmental controls, or contributions
            to research at a college or university may not be suitable projects under this
            category;
         i.   Other Project Category – DEQ may consider a potential SEP project that does
              not fit within one of the categories above but is otherwise consistent with all other
              provisions of this Directive.


   3. The respondent’s contribution to the SEP is worth at least as much as the penalty
      reduction;
   4. The work and the environmental result under the SEP are not otherwise required by
      statute, rule, permit, or order; and is not set to become a future enforceable requirement
      as identified by a law, regulation or government register.



IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                         9
   5. The portion of the SEP attributable to the penalty reduction will not be funded by state or
      federal government loans, contracts or grants;
   6. In-kind work: if the respondent is doing work itself rather than conferring funds to a third
      party to do the work, the responsibilities of the respondent under the SEP must be
      commensurate with the respondent’s expertise and capabilities. In addition, penalties for
      violations done willfully or flagrantly, or violations done by chronic or recalcitrant violators
      may not be mitigated through the in-kind work of the respondent;
   7. The SEP must not call for DEQ to manage or control funds; or to manage or administer
      the SEP (though it may involve DEQ in an oversight role);
   8. The SEP will not necessitate significant DEQ staff time to plan, review, implement,
      monitor, or follow up;
   9. The SEP will not be used to satisfy any statutory or other legal obligation or circumvent
      any statutory prohibition;
   10. The SEP does not create a significant market or economic advantage for the
       respondent; however, an otherwise acceptable project that has incidental advantage to
       the respondent may be accepted by appropriately valuing the SEP (see Section 4.3,
       below); and
   11. The SEP must include a Final SEP Report to be submitted to the Department and may
       include interim reporting.



4.2 Preference criteria
In negotiating settlement of an enforcement order, DEQ staff are encouraged to advocate for
the SEP preference criteria listed below. The following criteria help OCE appropriately allocate
limited staff resources and advance the interest of environmental justice by promoting
meaningful participation by communities in SEP selection and redressing the harm done by
non-compliance and pollution on overburdened communities:



   1. Minimum SEP amount - Generally, OCE staff should not offer SEP penalty mitigation
      unless the SEP amount is at least $10,000. However, the penalty mitigated by the SEP
      may be less than $10,000 if the violator contributes to a pre-approved project according
      to section 4.5(2) of this Directive or if the penalty mitigation will induce settlement prior to
      a contested case hearing.

   2. Contributions in excess of penalty mitigation - Projects should have a higher
      monetary value than the penalty reduction, either because the respondent donates
      additional resources or money beyond the amount of the penalty mitigation or because
      the respondent or recipient leverages the money to gain additional resources or money
      for the project;

   3. Nexus – SEPs should demonstrate a sufficient nexus between the violation and the
      proposed project. A SEP that has sufficient nexus should address the harm caused by
      the violation, have relevance to the same environmental program as the violation, and


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                      10
       be implemented in the same geographic area or community where the violation
       occurred. A project with a sufficient nexus may help address environmental harm to
       overburdened communities;

   4. Community involvement – In appropriate cases, DEQ should encourage input on SEP
      proposals from the local community that may have been adversely impacted by
      violations. In most cases community input should be sought by the respondent or the
      respondent and DEQ collaboratively. However, DEQ may seek community input in the
      absence of the respondent’s participation. In addition, where there has been robust
      community involvement and support for the selected project, DEQ may consider a SEP
      that has less sufficient nexus to the violation.

       Soliciting community input during the SEP development process can: result in SEPs that
       better address the needs of the impacted community; promote environmental justice;
       produce better community understanding of DEQ enforcement; and improve relations
       between the community and the violating facility. DEQ staff should consider the following
       factors to determine whether a SEP should include community involvement:

           a. Size of the civil penalty – whether the size of the potential SEP contribution is
              large (in excess of $100,000) with the potential to fund significant community
              improvements;
           b. Nature of the violation – whether the violation resulted in excessive pollution that
              posed harm or a risk of harm to public health or the environment and the local
              community;
           c. Characteristics of the violator – whether the violator is willing to develop a SEP
              and respond meaningfully to community involvement (this may be done in
              partnership with community-based organizations); and
           d. Characteristics of the impacted community – whether the community impacted by
              the violation is an overburdened community. 3

       Robust community involvement in the SEP selection process may result in a proposed
       project that does not have a strong nexus between the type of harm caused by the
       violation. For example, a project that improves local drinking water conditions may not
       be connected to air quality violations. In evaluating a SEP application, DEQ staff may
       prioritize the breadth and depth of community involvement over a strong programmatic
       nexus.




3 DEQ may use EPA’s environmental justice screening tool (EJScreen), any other mapping or screening

tool developed by DEQ, or information provided by community members to inform the determination of
whether the violation occurred in an overburdened community. Screening level results, such as those
produced by EJScreen, do not, by themselves, determine whether an environmental justice concern
exists. For more information on EPA’s EJScreen please visit EJScreen: Environmental Justice Screening
and Mapping Tool | US EPA.


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                      11
       DEQ publishes all Notices of Civil Penalty Assessment and Orders the month following
       their issuance. However, SEPs are developed in the context of settlement negotiations.
       DEQ staff must carefully consider how to provide information to the public to facilitate
       involvement in SEP selection without undermining the non-public nature of settlement
       negotiations. Staff must act in accordance with the Oregon Public Records Law and
       prevent from disclosure records that are privileged or confidential, including confidential
       business information.

4.3 Small community wastewater treatment plant SEPs
DEQ issues civil penalties against both industrial and municipal sources of pollution, including
cities that operate wastewater treatment plants. On a case-by-case basis DEQ staff should
consider accepting a SEP application for violations at a wastewater collection or treatment
facility that does not meet the conditions of Section 4.1(4), (5), and (9) of this Directive if the
following small community criteria are met:

   1. The respondent is either:

         a. a city, including areas within a city’s urban growth boundary, an urban
            unincorporated community, service district, or a private non-profit operator of a
            waste water treatment plant that has or serves a population of 5,000 or less and a
            median household income less than the state average, or
         b. a community within the reservation of a federally recognized Indian tribe that is
            provided with services related to water pollution control by a public agency;


   2. the SEP addresses existing effluent violations;

   3. the SEP improves the ability of the wastewater facility to comply in the long term, and
   4. it is likely that the respondent would not otherwise be financially capable of meeting the
      requirement that is being violated.
In determining whether to offer a Small Community WWTP SEP and what percentage of the
penalty to mitigate, DEQ staff may consider the Respondent’s history of non-compliance.

4.4 Determining the amount of penalty mitigation
SEPs are valued by the following method:

   1. Add all the qualifying costs of the SEP proposed by the respondent. Qualifying costs are
      all the reasonable costs of executing the SEP, which may include:

         a. reasonable costs of preparing an approved SEP proposal;
         b. costs of materials and services;
         c. wages (appropriate to the work) paid to a respondent’s employees for time spent
            on the SEP so long as the time is only spent on the SEP and the respondent


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                         12
               documents the days and hours during which the employee worked on the SEP and
               includes that accounting in its final close-out report;
          d. wages and benefits (appropriate to the work) to employees of a third party
             executing the SEP ; and
          e. any other reasonable and proper costs of preparing, organizing, and executing the
             SEP.
          f.   Under no circumstances may SEP monies be used for entertainment or
               refreshment costs, including costs to purchase prizes, participation awards or other
               gifts for participants involved in the execution of a SEP.


    2. In cases where the respondent will likely gain an economic benefit from the SEP, DEQ
       may reduce the value of the SEP accordingly. In making this determination, DEQ may
       use the US EPA PROJECT computer model or consult other EPA guidance 4
    3. When a SEP calls for payments to be made in the future, the value of the SEP may be
       adjusted to reflect the difference in value of present vs. future payments.
    4. Department staff may consider a SEP that might not otherwise meet preference criteria if
       the value of the SEP exceeds the value of the penalty reduction, or if the SEP has
       components that benefit the public or environment at large, are innovative, address
       environmental justice concerns, incorporate community input, or have multimedia
       benefits.
    5. Determine the final penalty as follows: Determine the settleable penalty which is the
       dollar value of the penalty after taking into consideration all information and agreements
       other than the value of the SEP. Subtract the amount respondent will contribute to the
       SEP from the settleable penalty. Generally, a settleable penalty may not be reduced by
       more than 80%. 5

4.5 SEP proposal procedures
    1. Case-by-case SEPs

          a. Proposals for SEPs are solely the responsibility of the respondent and must
             include the information required on DEQ’s SEP application form, including the
             following:


4 The PROJECT model and user’s manual can be found at https://www.epa.gov/enforcement/penalty-

and-financial-models See also EPA’s 2003 memo “Guidance for Determining Whether a Project is
Profitable, When to Accept Profitable Projects as Supplemental Environmental projects, and How to
Value Such Projects” https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2018-10/documents/seps-
profitableprojectstab10.pdf

5 Example: Respondent receives a Notice of Civil Penalty Assessment for $100,000. During informal

discussions, DEQ learns information leading it to reduce the penalty to $80,000. The maximum penalty
mitigation would be 80% of the settleable penalty of $80,000 ($64,000). The lowest final penalty, to which
DEQ and respondent could agree, would be a final penalty of $16,000 and an SEP value of at least
$64,000.


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                           13
               i.    (if applicable) A description of the impacted community, its involvement in
                     the SEP selection process, and how that impacted community will benefit
                     from the project;
               ii.   A description of expected benefits and results and how benefits and results
                     will be measured or assessed;
              iii.   A summary of the estimated value of the SEP, listing the costs that will be
                     paid by the respondent and crediting any leveraged amounts that will cover
                     other related costs; and
              iv.    A proposed schedule including milestones for completion, culminating in
                     the submission of a Final Close-out Report to DEQ. Department staff may
                     assist a respondent in identifying possible SEPs. However, staff should not
                     advocate for a particular project or particular SEP recipient of the funds
                     without first obtaining the approval of the Manager of the Office of
                     Compliance and Enforcement. The Manager of the Office of Compliance
                     and Enforcement has sole authority to reduce a penalty with a SEP and to
                     commit DEQ to agreeing to a particular SEP.


         b. A final SEP proposal must be submitted to the Environmental Law Specialist (ELS)
            handling the case on the SEP application form provided by DEQ. An address and
            phone number for the ELS will be listed on the cover letter of the Notice of Civil
            Penalty Assessment and Order.

         c. In determining whether any given SEP proposal fits within this Directive, the ELS
            may consult with the relevant regional staff or managers, regional solutions staff, or
            subject matter experts, and DEQ’s SEP Coordinator. The SEP Coordinator must
            evaluate the SEP proposal to determine whether it adheres to the elements of this
            Directive. A SEP proposal must be approved by the SEP Coordinator and the
            Manager of the Office of Compliance and Enforcement.

   2. Pre-Approved SEPs

         a. At any time a potential SEP recipient may send to DEQ’s SEP Coordinator a SEP
            application for pre-approval via an online form maintained by DEQ. The application
            for pre-approval must include the following information:

                i.   Description of the SEP recipient and organizational contact information,
               ii.   Environmental issue addressed by the project,
              iii.   Description of the project,
              iv.    Project location,
               v.    Description of the environmental benefits of the project, including benefits
                     to overburdened communities, and
              vi.    Estimated cost and timeline of the project.




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                       14
         b. DEQ will post all pre-approved SEP applications on its website for one year. After
            one year, if the project still needs funding, the pre-approval applicant may resubmit
            the project application for pre-approval.

         c. If a Respondent selects a pre-approved SEP, the Respondent and the SEP
            applicant will have to submit a SEP application according to section 4.5(1) above.
            Actual SEP amounts may differ from pre-application approval cost estimates.


4.6 SEP settlement procedure
   1. A SEP must be accurately and completely described in a Mutual Agreement and Final
      Order which may incorporate the SEP proposal if the proposal itself provides sufficient
      detail.

   2. The MAO must include the following conditions:
         a. Respondent must not use the value of a SEP as a tax deduction or as part of a tax
            credit application;
         b. Respondent must agree that whenever it or the SEP recipient publicizes a SEP or
            the results of the SEP, it or the SEP recipient will state in a prominent manner that
            the project is being undertaken as part of the settlement of an Oregon DEQ
            enforcement action;
         c. A requirement for a Final SEP Report to be submitted to DEQ according to a
            schedule defined in the MAO. The Final SEP Report must include a detailed
            description of the expenses, copies of relevant receipts, explanation of measurable
            results, and a certification that the SEP is complete as described in the report.
            SEPs are not considered complete until DEQ receives a complete Final SEP
            Report from the respondent; and
         d. If respondent fails to complete the SEP as required, the penalty will become due
            (including the portion of the penalty that would have been mitigated because of the
            SEP, plus statutory interest (currently 9% annual) on the whole amount). At its
            discretion, DEQ may give credit for a partially completed project; and
         e. If a project will take more than one year to complete, Respondent must provide
            DEQ with periodic project implementation reports.
   3. DEQ at its discretion may generate a public news release after a MAO is finalized with
      an approved SEP.



4.7 SEP listening sessions
DEQ’s office of Compliance and Enforcement will host at least one SEP listening session per
year to promote and expand awareness of the SEP policy, educate potential recipients, and
receive community feedback on the implementation of the SEP policy and process. DEQ will
make the listening sessions available both virtually and in-person in differing locations around
the state. In addition, DEQ will provide advance notice of the listening sessions through


IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                      15
GovDelivery, the SEP webpage, and social media. Interpretive services will be provided upon
request.

DEQ will maintain a list of all approved and finalized SEPs on its website.




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                 16
5. Record of revisions to the directive
       Revision                   Date                  Changes                     Editor

                                                  Add small
 Cover page
                                 1/10/13          communities and                Les Carlough
                                                  educational SEPs

                                                  Substantial changes
                                                  throughout directive,
 Full directive update         12/7/2023                                        Kieran O’Donnell
                                                  focusing on
                                                  environmental justice




IMD: Evaluating and Approving Supplemental Environmental Projects: Appendix G                      17
