Internal Management Directive
Developing Concentration
Limits at Permitted Solid Waste
Facilities




                                  Last updated: February 2011
                                  By: Audrey Eldridge
                                  DEQ Solid Waste Program
                                  11-LQ-033
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 3Solid
                                                    3 Waste Facilities                                                         February 2011



     Table of Contents

     Introduction ............................................................................................................. 5
     Overview .................................................................................................................. 6
     Chapter 1: Selecting Monitoring Wells and Parameters for Long-Term
     Monitoring and Compliance .................................................................................. 7
     Chapter 2: Managing Groundwater Quality Data ........................................... 15
     Chapter 3. Concentration Limits for Permitted Facilities ............................... 22
     Chapter 4. Using Statistics to Establish Concentration Limits ....................... 24
     Chapter 5. Conducting Long-Term Compliance Monitoring.......................... 31
     Appendix A: Parameter Groups – Solid Waste Facilities ................................. 35
     Appendix B – Boxplot ........................................................................................... 37
     Appendix C - Shapiro Wilk Example ................................................................. 38
     Appendix D – Non Parametric Comparison with Pooled Data ....................... 40
     Attachment 1 – Associated Tables from US EPA Unified Guidance, 2009




                                                                             3
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 4Solid
                                                    4 Waste Facilities           February 2011



     Acronyms/Abbreviations

      AL               Action limit
      CLV              Concentration limit variance
      DAF              Dilution attenuation factor
      DEQ              Department of Environmental Quality
      EMP              Environmental monitoring plan
      EPA              Environmental Protection Agency
      ERPC             EPA reference power curves
      GWQPR            Groundwater quality protection rules (OAR 340‐40)
      HCU              Hydrogeologic compliance unit
      IMD              Internal management directive
      IPA              Informal preliminary assessment
      IQR              Interquartile range
      LOD              Limit of detection
      LOQ              Limit of quantification
      MCL              Maximum concentration limit
      MRL              Method reporting limit
      MS               Matrix spike
      NELAP            National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program
      ORELAP           Oregon Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program
      PA               Preliminary assessment
      POC              Parameters of concern
      PSCL             Permit specific concentration limit
      QA/QC            Quality assurance/quality control
      ROS              Regression on order statistics
      RPD              Relative percent difference
      RSD              Relative standard deviation
      SSL              Site specific limit
      SW               Solid waste
      SWFPR            Site wide false positive rate
      TDS              Total dissolved solids
      UPL              Upper prediction limit
      VOC              Volatile organic compound




                                                  4
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 5Solid
                                                    5 Waste Facilities                   February 2011




     Introduction
     The purpose of this internal management directive (IMD) is to promote consistent
     interpretation and implementation of the Department of Environmental Quality
     (DEQ or the ‘Department’) regulations governing groundwater monitoring at
     permitted solid waste facilities in Oregon. Specifically, this directive will provide
     technically sound methods for the DEQ Solid Waste hydrogeologists to assist
     permittees with their permit compliance, including: developing a groundwater
     quality database, selecting long-term monitoring parameters, conducting a
     statistical evaluation of groundwater monitoring data to develop concentration
     limits, and developing a compliance monitoring program. Elements of this
     document were developed by an advisory group comprised of DEQ and
     consulting hydrogeologists, permittees and other environmental professionals
     affiliated with DEQ permitted solid waste facilities.

     Methods other than those discussed in this document may also be acceptable.
     However, if other methods are used, the permittee will need to provide
     documentation that an alternative approach is as protective as those detailed in
     this document. Staff may want to advise the permittee that such alternate
     approaches may result in a significant commitment of the permittees time and
     resources.

     This document will assist the Department’s solid waste hydrogeologists to
     confirm that permittees are in compliance with all appropriate state and federal
     rules and regulations including, but not limited to, 40 CFR 258, the Solid Waste
     Rules (OAR 340-93-96) and the Groundwater Quality Protection Rules
     (GWQPRs, OAR 340-40.)




                                                      5
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 6Solid
                                                    6 Waste Facilities                     February 2011




     Overview
     This IMD provides a framework and recommendations for statistical analysis of
     groundwater monitoring data to determine whether groundwater has been
     impacted by site activities.

     This document is not a textbook of statistical methods but rather provides
     technically sound methods for the DEQ Solid Waste hydrogeologists to assist
     permittees with permit compliance. Statistical methods are identified, but their
     application is not described in extraordinary detail. Specific details and examples
     on the statistical methods can be found in many standard references manuals.
     This document draws upon experience gained in the past several decades while
     implementing the Solid Waste groundwater monitoring program in
     recommending acceptable methods.

     This document is divided into the following five sections:

     Section 1 describes a process for developing an effective long-term detection and
     compliance monitoring program. This includes selecting a representative
     monitoring well network and appropriate groundwater monitoring indicator
     parameters.

     Section 2 describes a process for developing and managing a high quality
     groundwater data base needed for statistical analysis.

     Section 3 identifies the various types of concentration limits that may be used at
     permitted solid waste facilities.

     Section 4 describes several statistical methods for determining groundwater
     compliance limits.

     Section 5 describes methods for measuring compliance with long term detection
     and compliance monitoring. This includes determining significant changes of
     water quality, exceedances of concentration limits, as well as re-sampling and
     notification requirements.




                                                      6
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 7Solid
                                                    7 Waste Facilities                    February 2011




     Chapter 1: Selecting Monitoring
     Wells and Parameters for Long-
     Term Monitoring and Compliance
     A successful detection/compliance monitoring program involves two major
     components: selecting a representative network of monitoring wells and choosing
     meaningful groundwater monitoring parameters. These two components are
     critical in determining compliance limits and conducting long-term compliance
     monitoring.



     1.1 OPTIMIZING THE GROUNDWATER MONITORING WELL
     NETWORK

     Before concentration limits can be set and long term monitoring can begin, DEQ
     staff should verify the effectiveness of the existing monitoring well network.
     Staff should evaluate monitoring well design and placement relative to the site’s
     hydrostratigraphy and groundwater flow direction, and whether the monitored
     analytes are relevant in detecting a release from the permitted facility. If not, then
     DEQ staff should work with the permittee to optimize the network and/or
     parameter list before attempting to establish long-term compliance points or to
     calculate concentration limits.

     1.1.1   Identifying Hydrogeologic Compliance Units

     It is very important to understand if the existing monitoring well network is
     capable of detecting any release from the permitted facility. A thorough review of
     the network will include identification of the various vertical and spatial
     hydrogeologic compliance units present. A hydrogeologic compliance unit
     (HCU) could be individual aquifer(s) or vertical zone(s) within an aquifer or an
     area within a single aquifer. A facility that could impact more than one aquifer or
     vertically more than one zone within an aquifer may need separate concentration
     limits for each aquifer or zone. Additionally, a facility monitoring an aquifer over
     a very large area may find that, spatially, there are some distinct water quality
     differences in the aquifer. This could be the result of variable upgradient
     influences or spatial geologic differences. DEQ staff should understand the
     direction of groundwater movement underneath the site to the compliance wells
     and how each of these areas is best monitored.




                                                       7
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 8Solid
                                                    8 Waste Facilities                     February 2011


     The following steps can assist in identifying Hydrogeologic Compliance Unit(s)
     (HCU):
        • Identify the aquifers of concern - Review the geology and hydrogeology
            of the site and determine how many aquifers are present that are or might
            be impacted by the facility’s operation.
        • Determine if the aquifers are of similar natural water quality - Review the
            geology/hydrogeology and groundwater quality of the site and determine
            if each of the aquifers identified is homogeneous in both hydrogeology
            and groundwater quality. If not, determine if the aquifer can somehow be
            broken into distinct areas in which each area is homogenous.
        • Determine the groundwater flow in each aquifer of concern - Review (or
            construct if necessary) seasonal groundwater contour maps for each
            aquifer of interest identifying flow paths between background and
            compliance wells.
        • Determine if the monitoring network is adequate - Review the existing
            monitoring well network and determine if each of the aquifers, zones, or
            “homogenous” areas are clearly represented by both background
            monitoring wells and compliance wells.
        • Break the aquifers into Hydrogeologic Compliance Units - Identify the
            HCU at the site and designate background, detection, and compliance
            wells for each unit.

     If DEQ Staff determines that there are HCU at risk where the monitoring well
     network is not adequate (i.e., there is not sufficient background, compliance
     and/or detection wells to cover all HCU) then the Department hydrogeologist
     should discuss the need for installing any additional monitoring well(s) to cover
     those areas with the permittee.

     1.2    IDENTIFYING PARAMETERS OF CONCERN

     Parameters of concern are those chemical constituents present in the facility’s
     wastewater/ leachate or which will be released by the facilities activities which
     have the potential to adversely impact groundwater quality at the facility. The
     parameters of concern can vary from site to site.

     DEQ hydrogeologists and the permittee should work together to develop the list
     of parameters of concern, unless parameters of concern are already specified in
     the facility’s permit, monitoring plan, or other regulatory document. Parameters
     of concern should factor in the potential release of any chemicals and other
     substances used at the site. Potential parameters of concern include contaminants
     that might be released from the soils/sediments due to site activities, or from the
     treatment the wastewater/leachate. DEQ hydrogeologists should evaluate the
     groundwater information for the site to compare existing conditions to the
     potential of a release. The list of parameters of concern for the site can be
     developed based on this evaluation. The final long-term monitoring plan may


                                                      8
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted 9Solid
                                                    9 Waste Facilities                      February 2011


     include additional constituents and field parameters, even if limits are not set for
     these constituents.

     DEQ considers the long-term use of large, generic lists of constituents as
     ineffective for long-term monitoring because some or many of these constituents
     (1) are typically not found in the source materials, (2) are not mobile, (3)
     attenuate through chemical or physical processes, or (4) are not easily detected at
     concentrations that contrast significantly with background groundwater
     chemistry. An example is heavy metals, which are included in the permit-specific
     list of analytical parameters at many solid waste facilities, and generally do not
     provide the earliest or most consistent indication of a leachate release to
     groundwater,

     The DEQ hydrogeologist will encourage permittees to propose their site-specific
     parameter of constituent lists for the long-term monitoring using parameter
     optimization, a means to facilitate the overall success of the long-term monitoring
     program. Parameter optimization benefits include the following:

        •   Reduces the monitoring constituents to primarily those found or expected
            to be found or derived from site-specific source materials. This will also
            reduce the number of false-positive results, since only those that could
            indicate a release are monitored.

        •   Uses constituents that contrast significantly with groundwater. This
            eliminates those parameters that could lead to false-positive results due
            merely to temporal or spatial variability in the components of the natural
            groundwater chemistry.

        •   Makes fewer statistical comparisons by optimizing wells and constituents.
            This controls the site-wide false-positive rate and enhances the statistical
            power (or effectiveness) of the monitoring program (Gibbons, 1992, 1994;
            USEPA, 1992).

     Reducing the list of monitoring constituents has a profound effect on the
     statistical power (i.e., the ability to detect real contamination) of the groundwater
     monitoring program. The EPA recommends a site wide false positive rate of 0.1
     or 10 %. The site wide false positive rate is based on number of wells, frequency
     of sampling, number of background samples and constituents analyzed. The more
     parameters included in the long-term monitoring, the higher the statistical limit
     will have be to in order to avoid excessive false-positive statistical decisions.

     As the number of constituents decrease, so does the size of the statistically-
     derived concentration limit necessary to meet the recommended site-wide false-
     positive rate. That will directly decrease the false-negative error rate. The
     smallest number of compliance monitoring constituents that provide a clear signal
     of a potential site impact should be the only constituents routinely evaluated
     statistically at a site. The Department’s re-sampling standards (known as “1 of

                                                       9
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted10Solid
                                                    10 Waste Facilities                   February 2011


     2”) dramatically reduces the site-wide false positive rate by allowing for more
     comparisons before reaching a potential site-wide false positive rate of 10%.

     Therefore those parameters that have clearly demonstrated little to no site-specific
     effect on groundwater quality are candidates for elimination from the long-term
     monitoring program.

     The parameter selection criteria should be based on the following performance
     factors:

        •   Parameter concentration and contrast.

        •   Parameter minimization.

        •   Parameter persistence.

        •   Parameter mobility.

     A phased approach, considering the criteria above, should be used to identify the
     most appropriate parameters of concern for the site. A discussion of each
     criterion is presented below.

     1.2.1 Parameter Concentration and Contrast

     The first step in selecting parameters of concern is to identify the leachate
     constituents -including the potential daughter products - and compare these with
     background groundwater concentrations. The concentration of a specific
     parameter in the leachate must be sufficiently high to produce a clear contrast to
     background concentrations. This approach allows for the identification of
     contaminants that may adversely impact groundwater quality. Upgradient/
     background groundwater data can be analyzed to generate prediction limits using
     statistical methods in this document or other methods approved by the
     Department (See Chapter 4.)

     These prediction limits are then compared with the maximum concentration of
     constituents in the wastewater/leachate samples to evaluate whether sufficient
     contrast exists to identify a release during long-term compliance monitoring.
     Sufficient contrast is assumed when the leachate concentration is consistently and
     sufficiently higher than the upgradient prediction limit (assumed to be a minimum
     of five times higher) to account for the effects of dilution and attenuation. Use of
     a dilution attenuation factor (DAF) of 5 is considered conservative based on
     USEPA guidance, which identifies typical DAFs of between 10 and 20 (USEPA,
     1996). If insufficient contrast exists for a specific analyte (leachate concentration
     is consistently at or below the background groundwater prediction limit), then that
     parameter may be a candidate for elimination from further consideration for
     compliance monitoring.


                                                      10
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted11Solid
                                                    11 Waste Facilities                                      February 2011


     In some situations, the release of leachate to groundwater may cause certain
     geochemical reactions to occur. This may result in some constituents found in the
     compliance well that are not present in the leachate or are present at lower levels,
     yet are the result of leachate impacts to the groundwater. These situations should
     be evaluated by the DEQ hydrogeologist and the permittee on a case-by-case
     basis. For instance, decomposing woodwaste may mobilize naturally iron or
     manganese from the formation underlying the fill area even though it is not
     present in large concentrations within the woodwaste itself.

     1.2.3     Parameter Minimization

     Some parameters may be present but not be at a significant concentration level to
     be detectable using laboratory analyses. Parameter detectability is defined as the
     ability of a laboratory to detect a given parameter at relatively low concentrations.
     In general, labs analyzing data should use a method with a limit of detection
     (LOD) 1 that is as low as possible. As a guideline, DEQ SW hydrogeologists
     recommend that LOD not be greater than 10% or less of any state or federal
     drinking water standard (whichever is less.)

     Further refinement of the set of effective indicator parameters can be achieved by
     eliminating parameters that are redundant. Inorganic parameters historically
     monitored in groundwater samples that may exhibit redundancies include total
     dissolved solids (TDS) and specific conductance; bicarbonate and total alkalinity;
     and calcium and hardness and total hardness.

         •    Although the utmost care is taken to ensure the quality of field
              measurements, uncertain field conditions, the use of multiple field
              instruments, as well as multiple users can affect the data quality collected
              in the field. For analytes where comparable laboratory measurements can
              be made, samples are reanalyzed in the laboratory to ensure the quality of
              data collected in the field. Analytes commonly analyzed in both the field
              and the laboratory include: pH, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, and
              turbidity.

         •    TDS and specific conductance both provide a quantitative measurement of
              the dissolved mineral content of a water sample. To minimize
              redundancies in the monitoring program, and unless the lab data are
              needed as a check on the field data, consider retaining the analysis of TDS
              and eliminating lab specific conductance analysis from the long-term
              monitoring program. Field specific conductance is an important
              parameter to gauge purge stabilization, and should be retained. If there is
              a question regarding proper storage and transport of the samples, then lab
              specific conductance can be useful as a check.


     1
      The LOD is an estimate of the minimum amount of a substance that an analytical process can reliably detect. A LOD is
     analyte-and matrix-specific and may be laboratory-dependent.

                                                                 11
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted12Solid
                                                    12 Waste Facilities                February 2011


        •   If background monitoring indicates that the bicarbonate ion represents the
            predominant form of alkalinity in groundwater at the site, then analysis of
            total alkalinity is redundant with bicarbonate analysis, as total alkalinity
            typically consists wholly of the bicarbonate ion. Consequentially,
            bicarbonate alkalinity should be included in the long-term monitoring
            program and total alkalinity should be eliminated. If the pH of the sample
            is 8.0 or greater, then analysis for both total alkalinity and carbonate is
            appropriate.

        •   Total hardness is not an empirical measure of any single constituent.
            Calcium and magnesium cations (in complexes with carbonate or
            bicarbonate anions) are the major contributors to total hardness in natural
            waters. Since the concentrations of calcium, magnesium, and bicarbonate
            ions will routinely be analyzed, total hardness can be determined.
            Therefore, total hardness can be eliminated from a long-term monitoring
            program when it is demonstrated that the location-specific total hardness
            concentrations are completely accounted for by calcium and magnesium
            analysis.

     1.2.4 Parameter Persistence

     Persistence is defined as the ability of a parameter to migrate through the site
     subsurface without degrading to non-detectable concentrations or to other by-
     products. A parameter’s persistence can be further defined by its ability to remain
     nearly constant (under natural conditions) through time, demonstrating a lack of
     significant temporal variability. In considering parameter persistence, dilution
     and attenuation are ignored in order to provide a high degree of conservatism.
     Consequentially, only a parameter’s temporal variability is considered. It is
     important to note that daughter products can be more toxic than the parent, so use
     of persistence as a measure of discarding a parameter may have some severe
     limitations.

     Parameter-specific time series plots at background locations can be used to
     evaluate parameter persistence. If historical results show a large degree of
     temporal variability and/or excessive increases or decreases (i.e., sporadic
     detections), that parameter should not be considered for long-term compliance
     monitoring. The degree of variability for an individual parameter can be
     quantified using the parameter’s percent relative standard deviation (%RSD) over
     time. That is, the parameter’s standard deviation is normalized using the mean
     (i.e., the ratio of standard deviation to the mean). Constituents with %RSD
     greater than or equal to 100% are generally considered to be poor candidates for
     long-term compliance monitoring programs, since their signal-to-noise ratio is too
     large for a meaningful analysis, and the observed range of the background data
     may underestimate the true range of the data.




                                                    12
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted13Solid
                                                    13 Waste Facilities                    February 2011


     1.2.5   Parameter Mobility

     Parameter mobility describes the ease with which a given constituent can migrate
     through the subsurface. Some parameters are easily adsorbed onto clay minerals
     or organic matter. Sometimes the valance state of an ion can be a factor in
     mobility. For instance, a cation with a higher valance state (3+ vs. 2+) is absorbed
     more readily than the lower valance state cation. Within the same valance state,
     a cation with a smaller radius will be adsorbed more strongly than a cation with a
     larger radius (Cr3+ vs. Fe3+.) Trace metals can be expected to be adsorbed more
     strongly than major metals such as sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium.
     This would be the case with Cu2+ ion in water that can displace a Ca2+ ion on the
     soil surface.

     1.3.    SELECTING PARAMETERS OF CONCERN FOR SOLID WASTE
             FACILITIES

     The Solid Waste Program has a standard list of parameters in the permits for all
     municipal landfills. That list is often reduced after 9 quarters of analytical data
     are reported. Municipal waste landfill permits generally require the permittee to
     sample for both inorganic and volatile organic compounds. See Appendix A for
     this list.

     1.3.1 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
     Based on a review of the detection frequencies of Appendix IX (40 CFR Part 264)
     analytes for numerous existing and new municipal solid waste facilities, VOCs as
     a class are detected more frequently than any other class of organic compounds in
     municipal solid waste landfill leachate (Cravy et al., 1990; Plumb 1991).

     VOCs are important tools for groundwater compliance monitoring because they
     are mobile, do not occur naturally in groundwater, and are common constituents
     of municipal solid waste leachate. These characteristics make VOCs good
     indicator compounds of a release at a municipal solid waste facility, less so at
     most industrial solid waste facilities. VOCs are generally not detected in
     background samples. As a result, VOCs should constitute an integral part of long-
     term monitoring at the municipal solid waste landfills in Oregon.

     As previously mentioned, the Department expects the labs analyzing VOC data
     will use a method with a Limit of Detection (LOD) as low as possible, and DEQ
     prefers LODs that are not greater than 10% of any state or federal drinking water
     standard (whichever standard is less.)

     1.3.2 Inorganic Parameters
     Identifying the inorganic parameters to include in a long-term compliance
     monitoring program should be accomplished using the phased approach described
     in this Chapter. The approach should include a thorough characterization of



                                                     13
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted14Solid
                                                    14 Waste Facilities                 February 2011


     leachate quality, and establish background (upgradient or intrawell) groundwater
     quality at the site.

     Note that for permitted municipal solid waste facilities, groundwater samples
     collected from compliance (and detection) monitoring wells are generally
     analyzed for all major cations and anions, even if a subset of them are eliminated
     from the statistical evaluation program using the optimization approach
     previously described. The cation and anion analytical data is useful for the
     following purposes: (1) calculate cation-anion balances, (2) geochemical analysis
     using Piper (trilinear) diagrams and Stiff plots, and (3) groundwater quality trend
     analysis.




                                                     14
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted15Solid
                                                    15 Waste Facilities                                 February 2011



     Chapter 2: Managing
     Groundwater Quality Data
     DEQ staff will need to evaluate whether monitoring data have been collected in
     accordance with the facility’s most recent Environmental Monitoring Plan, before
     evaluating any concentration limit proposals. This Environmental Monitoring
     Plan specifies the methods and procedures the permittee must use for collecting
     and reviewing laboratory quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) data.

     DEQ staff should confirm that samples were collected, handled, and managed so
     that any statistical analysis will yield meaningful results. This chapter guides staff
     on how to conduct this review.

     2.1        MONITORING PARAMETERS

     The facility permit or facility’s environmental monitoring plan should specify: the
     parameters for monitoring the facility; the collection techniques; and the
     laboratory analysis. The solid-waste disposal permits initially specify a broad
     range of parameters which are later pared down when more site-specific
     information is available.

     Appendix A summarizes the analytical parameters typically required in solid
     waste permits.

     2.2 VALIDATING LABORATORY RESULTS

     EPA recommends basing statistical analyses on data that have met their
     associated QA/QC criteria. The DEQ SW hydrogeologists should review data
     used for statistical analyses, determine if all QA/QC criteria were met, or if any
     other circumstance may have affected the data quality.

     2.2.1 QA/QC
     Each laboratory analytical report contains internal laboratory QA/QC information
     as well as the sample-specific analytical data. The intent of the DEQ staff’s
     QA/QC review is to confirm that the laboratory data meet certain minimum
     QA/QC standards described either in the approved facility monitoring plan or in
     the ORELAP/NELAP 2 certification. Staff should review the following
     information:

              • Method Blanks are samples prepared in the laboratory from ultrapure
                laboratory water. The detection of any analyte in a method blank sample
                indicates potential laboratory contamination. The blank is subjected to the
                usual analytical and measurement process to establish a zero baseline or


     2
         Oregon Environmental Lab Accreditation Program (ORELAP). National Environmental Lab Accreditation Program (NELAP)

                                                                15
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted16Solid
                                                    16 Waste Facilities                                        February 2011


                 background value and can sometimes be used to adjust or correct routine
                 analytical results.

         •       Matrix Spikes (MS) are samples prepared by adding a known mass of a
                 target analyte to a specified amount of matrix sample for which an
                 independent estimate of target analyte concentration is available. Matrix
                 spikes are used, for example, to determine the effect of the matrix on
                 methods recovery efficiency.

             •   Relative percent difference (RPD) between two analyses of MS samples.
                 The purpose is to determine laboratory precision. Precision measures the
                 reproducibility of a sample result and provides a measure of the variability
                 that results from the analytical procedures employed.

     Staff should also:

             •   Cross-check which analyses were requested in the chain-of-custody
                 documentation against analyses performed in the laboratory report.
                 Determine if all required samples were submitted and the appropriate
                 analyses requested.

             •   Check for anomalies (e.g., typographic errors, surrogate recoveries, MS
                 duplicate, RPDs, MS percent recovery calculations, and laboratory control
                 samples) and evaluate whether those anomalies are true results by contacting
                 the laboratory for explanation, when reasonably possible. If there is a
                 mistake with the reported data, ask the permittee or the laboratory to clarify
                 and document the issue. If there is no obvious reason for the anomaly, then
                 flag the data in the database, and decide if the flagged data should be used in
                 future statistical processes.

             •   Check computerized entries for data-entry errors and correct if necessary.

             •   Check whether detection and quantification limits obtained by the laboratory
                 meet the Limit of Detection (LOD) and Limit of Quantification (LOQ) 3
                 stated in the facility monitoring plan. If the detection and/or quantification
                 limits are above the LOD/LOQ, contact the lab or permittee for a re-
                 examination of the detection limit.

             •   Calculate or review the cation-anion balances, if necessary. If the cation-
                 anion balances are not within 10-15 percent (dependant on total dissolved
                 solids), then assess the potential of: (a) influence on the balance from some
                 significant anion or cation that is not being captured in the monitoring
                 program; or (b) the possibility that some of the balance parameters analyses
                 are in error.

     3
      LOQ (Limits of Quantitation) is an estimate of the minimum amount of a substance that can be reported with a specific degree
     of confidence. LOQ is synonymous with the older term “Method Reporting Level.”

                                                                  16
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted17Solid
                                                    17 Waste Facilities                    February 2011


        •    Assessing trip blank, method blank, and equipment blank contamination, if
             present. If blanks are contaminated, then flag the associated data in the
             database.

        •    Compare duplicate and primary parameter concentration results using
             relative percent difference calculations. If the two samples are considerably
             different (for most analyses +20%), then evaluate if this is due to relatively
             low concentration levels (less than 5 times the LOQ) , or if there was a need
             for corrective action. If the data are below 5x LOQ, then it can remain in the
             statistical database.

        •    Review holding times and determine if these have been met. Flag any result
             that does not meet holding times in the database and evaluate the necessity
             of eliminating these data from future statistical processes.

        •    Check field sampling documentation to assess whether any outlier or
             anomaly was associated with the sampling process (i.e., Was the sample
             field filtered if required? Was there higher than usual total suspended
             solids in the well? Were sampling protocols followed?) Flag the
             outlier/anomaly in the database if there was a change in sampling
             protocols that was not approved in advance. Resolve this sampling issue
             before the next event.

        •    Some data may not meet all QA/QC criteria. It is always advisable to
             contact the laboratory that produced the results when there are quality data
             questions. Some data can be corrected, such as when the laboratory can
             provide documentation of why the original results were in error. Some
             data cannot be corrected (i.e. precision greater than +20% due to low
             concentration levels). Finally, some data that do not meet their QA/QC
             requirements should be flagged and removed from future statistical
             considerations.

        •    Thoroughly reviewed data found to conform to their QA/QC criteria
             should be deemed “valid” and can be used for statistical analysis.


     2.2.2   Statistical Review for Anomalies

     Outliers or anomalies are data from a well that are inconsistently small or large
     compared to historic data from the well. This could be the result of
     concentrations being affected by improper sampling, handling, laboratory
     analytical methods, transcription errors, or by chance alone. Compare the
     analytical results for each parameter to the historical well results to ensure only
     high quality data are used for statistics and to help identify possible outliers or
     anomalies. Plotting the data on a times-series graph and developing a box plot for



                                                       17
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted18Solid
                                                    18 Waste Facilities                  February 2011


     each parameter of interest (at the individual well level) can help accomplished this
     review.

     If the review described in Chapter 2.2.1 identifies an outlier or anomaly, then the
     data should not be used in statistical calculations for setting concentration limits
     or evaluating trends. However, if the cause of the outlier or anomaly is not found,
     the DEQ SW hydrogeologist should consider directing the permittee to resample
     the well for the affected parameter as outlined in their permit and/or OAR 340-
     040-0030(5)(a).


     2.3     MANAGING THE DATA
     2.3.1   Review the Master Database
     Permittees typically keep environmental monitoring data in an electronic form so
     they can easily analyze and present the data in their annual monitoring reports.
     DEQ staff should recommend to permittees that maintaining their data in either
     spreadsheet or database software is a practical way to manage this information.
     There are several commercially available products that can perform the task of
     electronic storage and data manipulation. Permittees should use whatever
     software design and construction meets their business needs.

     The master database of “original” data is essentially an electronic copy of the
     original analytical reports and any modifications made through data validation.
     When reviewing a database for quality and completeness, staff should check to
     make sure the permittee has maintained all data qualifiers and reported significant
     digits.

     2.3.2   Data Presentation

     Permittees normally present and interpret water-quality data with tables, graphs,
     and maps. These tools are an essential first step in data evaluation and analysis.
     Hydrogeologists can identify the kinds of graphs and tables to be provided to
     DEQ either in the facility permit, the approved monitoring plan, or by written
     communication with the permittee. Although the Master Database should contain
     all the spatial and temporal data collected for the site, the permittee does not need
     to present all of it in every report.

     Methods to display and organize water quality data include tabular and graphical
     presentations. Tables, the most common form for reporting analytical results,
     may be arranged by well, parameter, and/or sampling event. Graphical
     presentation can aid in visualizing spatial distribution of contaminants, identifying
     changes in water quality with time, and comparing water of different
     compositions. Graphical presentation methods might include time plots, box
     plots, scatter plots, contour maps, cross-sections, histograms, Stiff diagrams,


                                                      18
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted19Solid
                                                    19 Waste Facilities                     February 2011


     trilinear diagrams, etc. Some of these methods are discussed in more detail
     below.

     2.3.2.1 Data Tables

     Permittees typically present groundwater quality and water level data in tables to
     aid with evaluation and discussion of the data. DEQ staff should ensure that, at a
     minimum, any proposal to establish concentration limits includes a table that
     presents the data to be used in a concentration limit proposal and the summarize
     both the statistics (e.g., number of samples, mean, standard deviation, etc.) and
     the dataset characteristics (e.g., background well, compliance well, date of sample
     collection, duplicate samples, etc.) for the analyses.

     In addition, presentation of the groundwater data should be separated from other
     media data. Water quality and water level data from wells monitoring different
     zones (i.e., uppermost alluvial aquifer, fractured basalt, etc.) should be prepared.
     Wells should be grouped according to upgradient, detection, or compliance
     designation for each hydrogeologic compliance unit.

     Anion-cation balances are a special type of data table often used in the solid waste
     program. The major dissolved-constituent values accuracy can be checked by
     calculating the cation-anion balance (Hem, 1985) [assuming a reasonably
     complete chemical analysis of a water sample.] When there is little difference
     between the anions and cations (approximately + 10-15%, depending on the total
     dissolved solids concentration) then DEQ staff should consider the cations and
     anions to be in good agreement. When the difference is much larger, the reasons
     are either a problem with the QA/QC for the dissolved-constituent values, or
     significant presence of a parameter influencing the balance that was not included
     in the suite of analyses. Under no circumstance should DEQ staff use a cation-
     anion balance to determine the quality of other non-related analytical procedures
     (e.g., volatile organic compounds, dissolved species such as mercury that are
     analyzed using a laboratory procedure that differs completely from the procedure
     used to evaluate the majority of the constituents, etc.)

     2.3.2.2 Graphs

     Box plots and time-series graphs are generally the first graphical tools used in
     evaluating and presenting groundwater data. Whichever graphical presentation is
     used, DEQ staff should ensure that the scale allows for observing any trends in
     the data, or that temporal fluctuations (like seasonality) will be evident yet not
     unduly exaggerated. The following are some types of plots and graphs that are
     often useful when evaluating any proposal for concentration limits.

     Box Plots
     Box plots, also known as box-and-whisker plots, are useful tools to judge the
     variability of data sets and to identify suspicious data. They are also useful in

                                                      19
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted20Solid
                                                    20 Waste Facilities                    February 2011


     comparing data set characteristics between wells. Box plots from a single well
     can be constructed to represent each season (as necessary) to illustrate seasonal
     variations in the data for that well.

     Box plots are constructed using ranked data for each statistically evaluated
     parameter. The box part of the plot includes the first quartile, the median, and the
     third quartile. The whiskers are generally constructed to represent 1.5 times the
     inter-quartile range (IQR) (1st to 3rd quartile). Data beyond the whiskers are noted
     as points, and generally considered to be outliers. (See Appendix B for an
     example of a box plot.)

     Time Plots
     Time plots, also known as time-series plots, are very useful in illustrating the
     change in concentrations of a single parameter within a well over time. These
     plots may also highlight possible outliers or seasonality within the data. Plotting
     multiple wells on a single time plot allows for a quick comparison between wells
     over time.

     Time plots are constructed with increasing time (past to present) plotted on the x-
     axis and parameter concentrations plotted on the y-axis. Each plot typically
     presents only one parameter per graph. However, constructing separate plots can
     show variations of multiple parameters within a single well over time. DEQ staff
     should make sure that each time plot includes all necessary historic data, as
     outlined in the permittee’s EMP.

     Hydrographs
     Hydrographs are plots that show water level measurements over time. A
     hydrograph is a graph that has time plotted on the x-axis and water level plotted
     on the y-axis. Typically, annual monitoring reports include a single graph for all
     monitoring locations, although for more complicated sites, several graphs at
     appropriate scales are provided to simplify cluttered graphs. DEQ staff should
     make sure the hydrographs include all the historic data, not just the current year,
     as outlined in the permittee’s EMP.

     Other Charts and Diagrams
     Generally, other types of charts or diagrams are not routinely needed to develop
     concentration limits. However, DEQ may need other graphical methods to
     understand the relationships or characteristics of the data set. Some common
     types of graphs are summarized below; if allowed by the permit, these can be
     requested of the permittee via written correspondence:

        •   XY Charts, also called scatter plots, are used to show the relationship
            between two variables.
        •   Trilinear Diagrams, also called Piper diagrams, use major anions and
            cations to classify natural waters. These diagrams are often used to show
            the similarities or differences in two or more sources of water and may be

                                                     20
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted21Solid
                                                    21 Waste Facilities                February 2011




        •   Stiff Diagrams are also a tool used to characterize the general water
            chemistry. Again, major cations and anions are plotted on either side of
            an axis, resulting in a characteristic shape for specific water types.




                                                   21
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted22Solid
                                                    22 Waste Facilities                   February 2011



     Chapter 3. Concentration Limits
     for Permitted Facilities
     Developing concentration limits can occur after the collection of sufficient
     background data to characterize the groundwater. DEQ and the permittee should
     agree upon the parameters used for long-term detection monitoring. The
     following types of groundwater concentration limits are used at solid waste
     facilities:

          • Permit-Specific Concentration Limits (PSCL): a concentration limit
            that can be statistically derived. DEQ can base PSCL for new facilities
            on background water quality data, using statistical methods outlined in
            this document (see Section 4) or other valid approaches. DEQ can also
            establish PSCLs for existing solid waste facilities in Oregon at levels as
            high as Table 1 or 2 of the Groundwater Quality Protection rules. In
            general, DEQ can set PSCLS for constituents with established Maximum
            Concentration Limits, or those considered hazardous in nature.

          • Site Specific Limit (SSL): a statistically derived concentration limit
            used at some landfills for non-hazardous parameters (cations, anions
            [except sulfate], and some leachate indicator parameters. SSLs are
            established using either the statistical methods in this guidance, or other
            valid methods. DEQ can set SSLs at new and existing landfills in
            Oregon. Prior to establishing any SSLs at an existing facility, DEQ will
            need to determine that the compliance wells have not been affected by
            landfilling activities.

          • Action Limit (AL): a concentration limit generally based on
            groundwater data from existing solid waste facilities with pre-existing
            groundwater impacts. ALs can be developed using a valid non-
            parametric statistical method, or by establishing cleanup levels or goals
            for hazardous constituents as justified by an endangerment assessment,
            risk assessment, remedial investigation, or other investigative
            information.

          • Concentration Limit Variance (CLV): a concentration limit
            established by formal approval by the DEQ Director, the Solid Waste
            Program – Land Quality Division or the EQC, consistent with OAR 340-
            040-030(4). CLVs are granted on a case-by-case basis as an alternative
            to other concentration limits (i.e., PSCLs, SSLs, or ALs) when the
            facility needs limits that are higher than Tables 1-3 in OAR 340-040. If
            background groundwater is above these table levels, then a PSCL can be
            established based on background water quality.


                                                    22
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted23Solid
                                                    23 Waste Facilities                  February 2011


     For a given parameter, the statistical limit represents the lowest concentration that
     could indicate a potential release from the facility. The statistical limits are
     generally based on the historical mean (magnitude), the standard deviation
     (variability) of the data during the historical (background) monitoring period, and
     a subsequent adjustment for false-positive or false-negative rates. These
     statistical limits can be based on either of the following:

           • Intrawell statistical comparisons, in which the chemistry of a sample is
             compared with its own historical data; or.

           • Interwell statistical comparisons, in which the chemistry of a sample is
             compared with upgradient well data (also referred to as upgradient-
             to-downgradient comparisons.)




                                                      23
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted24Solid
                                                    24 Waste Facilities                     February 2011



     Chapter 4. Using Statistics to
     Establish Concentration Limits
     The purpose of this Chapter is to address some of the most common statistical
     issues for SW permitted facilities. Much of the information in this section is
     contained in EPA Statistical Analysis of Groundwater Monitoring Data at RCRA
     Facilities – Unified Guidance (March 2009) and available at the following link:
     http://www.epa.gov/waste/hazard/correctiveaction/resources/guidance/sitechar/gw
     stats/index.htm

     The EPA Unified Guidance document (hereto referred to as the Unified
     Guidance) contains a wealth of information regarding statistical analyses and
     issues, and should be a valuable tool for regulators, consultants and permittees
     alike. This IMD should assist DEQ SW hydrogeologists with the development of
     prediction limits, but does not limit other valid approaches that permittees may
     want to use in developing compliance limits.

     DEQ staff should evaluate the following items when reviewing concentration
     limit proposals:
         • groundwater characteristics,
         • whether sufficient data are available to conduct the desired statistical test,
         • whether unresolved outliers were flagged and removed from the data set
             proposed for statistical analyses, and
         • agreement between the DEQ and the permittee on the parameters to be
             used for the compliance monitoring program, based on the parameter
             optimization process.

     This section focuses on constructing compliance limits with statistics. Selected
     sites may have limits established that are not based on statistics or background
     groundwater quality, but rather by using a risk-based approach (i.e., Remedial
     Action Concentration Limits for older landfills with existing impacts to
     groundwater.) See Section 3 for more information on all compliance limits.

     4.1.    COMMON ASSUMPTIONS

     Site-Specific Considerations: Concentration limits are unique to each site, and
     take into consideration whether the facility is considered by OAR 340-040 as a
     ‘new’ facility (i.e., built after October 27,1989); if the site consists solely of older
     unlined cells/lagoons/etc; or if the facility has a mix of old and new waste
     management units (cells, lagoons, etc.) An important factor for consideration is
     the construction of each waste management units, as some (i.e., western Subtitle
     D landfill cells built since 1993) may include secondary collection systems.
     These secondary collection systems are capable of providing the first indication of
     a potential release from the facility.

                                                       24
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted25Solid
                                                    25 Waste Facilities                  February 2011



     Graphical and Statistical Data: Generally when a site is ready for concentrations
     limits, the permittee has generated several plots for the parameters of concern.
     DEQ’s assessment of the following plots will be the most useful when re-
     evaluating which statistical test is appropriate:

            •   Box Plots
            •   Time Series Plots/Scatter Plots
            •   Histograms
            •   Probability Plots

     These plots, coupled with the typical descriptive statistics information (mean,
     median, standard deviation, etc.) for each parameter that will have a compliance
     limit developed, provide most of the data needed to determine if the data are
     normally distributed, and if any outliers exist.

     Types of Concentration Limits: EPA now recommends developing prediction
     limits or Shewart-CUSUM control charts (both with retesting) as the preferred
     statistical methods to develop compliance limits for RCRA facilities. Prediction
     limits allow for a facility to maintain a low false positive rate while achieving a
     high degree of power to detect actual contamination. EPA no longer recommends
     tolerance limits as one of the best statistical methods for evaluating groundwater
     data at RCRA sites, as the statistical power of the limit and the false positive rate
     are difficult to determine. Because of EPA’s recent decision, this section will
     focus on parametric and non-parametric prediction limits.

     EPA Recommendations: EPA strongly recommends two common statistical
     performance criteria they believe are fundamental to a good design of a detection
     monitoring program: (1) using a site-wide false positive rate (SWFPR) at 10% a
     year; and (2) using EPA reference power curves (ERPC) to describe the annual
     (and cumulative) statistical power of a given test to detect a level of
     contamination above background.

     The SWFPR of 10% translates to each semi-annual monitoring event having a 5%
     FPR or each quarterly event a 2.5% FPR.

     The ERPC assumes background data is normally distributed, and over a single
     year any individual parametric prediction limit test should have the ability to
     detect 3 to 4 standard deviation increases against background at power levels at
     least as high as the reference curves.

     The calculation of an ERPC or the power rating of a test is complex, and can be
     approximated using an EPA generated program known as “Park” for parametric
     data, or better determined by using R-Script (www.r-project.org), and the 1-of-m
     Retesting script.


                                                      25
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted26Solid
                                                    26 Waste Facilities                 February 2011


     If Tables 2-5 of this IMD are used when calculating upper prediction limits, there
     is no need to determine the EPRC, as it has already been factored into the
     constants.

     The EPA Optimal Rank Value Calculator program, which was released with the
     Unified Guidance, also determines the power ratings of the non-parametric tests
     when calculating non-parametric UPL. This can be found at:
     http://www.epa.gov/waste/hazard/correctiveaction/resources/guidance/sitechar/gw
     stats/opt-rank06.exe


     4.2.   HOW TO MANAGE DATA BELOW THE DETECTION LIMIT

     It is counter-productive to develop a statistical limit for a given parameter if 100%
     of the data are below the detection limit. EPA recommends that States not
     establish concentration limits for parameters not generally found in the
     groundwater. A better alternative is to re-evaluate the need of establishing any
     concentration limit for such a parameter. If this is an important parameter and
     will be included in the long-term compliance monitoring, then use a future Limit
     of Quantification (LOQ) of this compound as the criteria for re-sampling. If the
     re-sampling confirms the original detection, treat this as a significant change of
     water quality (see Section 5.2.). This approach will not reduce the power of the
     site prediction limits by adding additional comparisons into the mix. This also is
     consistent with EPA’s recommendation of using an initial detection confirmed by
     re-sampling as the criterion for determining an exceedance at a compliance well.

     Left-Censored Data: Use a simple substitution of ½ the LOQ if less than 10-
     15% of the data are non-detections.

     If the data are up to 50% non-detect, and there are at least 8-10 sample results,
     then use either the Kaplan-Meier or Robust Regression on Order Statistics (ROS)
     method for determining the appropriate data set values (mean, standard
     deviation.) Review censored probability plots to determine if the data can be
     normalized and if the left-censored data should be manipulated. If the data with
     significant non-detects can be normalized, then estimates of the mean (µ) and the
     standard deviation (σ) can be used. There are several computer programs that
     allow for this type of calculation.

     If the above adjustments are not suitable, or if more than 50% of the data are non-
     detections, then the DEQ hydrogeologist should re-evaluate the need to establish
     a concentration limit for this parameter of concern. A concentration limit can also
     be based using a non-parametric method, if this parameter is a critical component
     of the monitoring network and the associated data cannot be transformed to
     ‘parametric’ (normal data.)



                                                     26
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted27Solid
                                                    27 Waste Facilities                                          February 2011


     4.3.     DATA DISTRIBUTIONS: PARAMETRIC OR NON-PARAMETRIC

     How the data in the data base are distributed is important to know before setting
     concentration limits. The DEQ hydrogeologist and the permittee should
     understand whether or not the water quality data are normally distributed for each
     specific parameter.

     Use normally distributed data to develop the facility parametric upper prediction
     limits. If the data do not seem to be normal, then evaluate if the data are log-
     normally distributed. If data are transformed to log-normal (or ln-normal) care
     must be taken to ensure the actual calculated limit has been transformed back.
     Calculate nonparametric upper prediction limits if the data set is neither normal
     nor lognormal.

     To help determine if the data are normal, and thus able to proceed with a
     parametric approach, evaluate the following conditions:
            • If one or more outliers are present, and re-sampling did not confirm
                the outlier value(s), remove the outlier(s) and recalculate the statistics.
                If the statistical tests indicate the conditioned data set is normal, then
                use this modified data set for generating parametric upper prediction
                limit(s).
            • The p-value should be greater than the α value 4 .
            • Skewness should be less than 1 (in absolute value for a data set of
                n< 25).
            • Kurtosis should be close to 3.
            • The SW statistic (from the Shapiro Wilk test) should not be smaller
                than the appropriate level critical point (see Shapiro Wilk discussion in
                Appendix C.)

     4.4.     POOLED DATA

     It is sometimes possible to “pool” the data from background wells monitoring the
     same HCU. In order to do this, use a demonstration that corroborates the aquifer
     is homogeneous and data from all the wells (statistically) is from the same
     population. One way to achieve this is to compare the various statistical properties
     of the data sets. Evaluate each parameter of concern to determine the viability of
     combining data sets.

     Determining when it is appropriate to pool multiple data sets into a single data set
     may require several steps. In most instances, the use of more than one technique
     is preferred. This process starts with a visual comparison of box plots and direct
     comparisons of typical statistical characteristics such as mean, standard deviation,
     interquartile range, etc. for individual constituents from each well. If these

     4
       This is based on the facility-wide false annual positive rate of 10%. Quarterly sampling would have a α of 2.5%;
     semi-annually sampling would equate to a α of 5%


                                                                    27
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted28Solid
                                                    28 Waste Facilities                 February 2011


     methods indicate that the data sets are similar, then use statistical comparison
     methods such as parametric or nonparametric analysis of variance and
     comparisons of means to test if the data sets are from the same population.

     Examine the data sets prior to choosing and using a statistical method. The data
     must meet the statistical methods assumptions. Assess whether the number of
     non-detects, the number of samples, whether the data are normally or non-
     normally distributed, etc., violate the test. The Shapiro-Wilk test is useful for
     determining data distribution. The following methods can be used for testing data
     sets for the purpose of pooling data:

     4.4.1. Normal and Log-normal Pooled Data Sets
     Test the data sets for homogeneity of variance first, since the two-sample t-test on
     the mean depends on the variances being statistically similar. Data sets having a
     log-normal distribution will use log-based methods to calculate the mean and
     standard deviation.

     The following can be used to evaluate the data:

                ¾ Test the similarities of the variances of the two data sets using the
                  One Way Parametric F-test. If the data sets are statistically
                  similar, then apply the t-test (Unified Guidance Chapter 17).
                ¾ Test the similarities of the means of the two data sets using the
                  two-sample parametric t-test (Unified Guidance Chapter 16).
                ¾ If both the variances and the means of the two data sets are similar,
                  then it is appropriate to combine the data sets into a larger
                  background data set.

            Non-Normal (Non-parametric) Pooled Data Sets
            Test the data sets for homogeneity of variance and similarity of the means
            as follows:

                ¾ Test the similarities of the variances of the two data sets using the
                  Levene’s test. If the data sets are statistically similar, then apply
                  the Kruskal-Wallis test. (Unified Guidance Chapter 17)
                ¾ Test the similarities of the medians of the two data sets using the
                  Kruskal-Wallis test.
                ¾ If both the variances and the means of the two data sets are similar,
                  then it is appropriate to combine the data sets into a larger
                  background data set.

     Non-parametric compliance limits will be needed if the data set is neither normal
     nor lognormal. An example of non-parametric comparisons with pooled
     background data can be found in Appendix D.




                                                       28
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted29Solid
                                                    29 Waste Facilities                    February 2011


     4.5.       CALCULATING PARAMETRIC UPPER PREDICTION LIMITS

            1) Obtain the mean (x̄ ) and the standard deviation (s) from the set of n
            background measurements.

            2) Specify the number of individual future observations (k) equivalent to the
            number of future sampling events the compliance limit will be used for future
            comparisons to a unique compliance well data set.

            3) With a confidence level (1-α) the following formula can be used to
            calculate the Upper Prediction Limit for a single parameter at a single well
            with retesting 1 of 2 procedure.

            UPL = x̄ + t 1- α/k, n-1 s √(1+1/n)


     This requires the Student’s t-quartile which incorporates the degrees of freedom
     (n-1) and the cumulative tail probability (1- α/k) and can be found in EPA Unified
     Guidance, Table 16.1, and as Table 1 of this IMD.



     4.5.1. Upper Prediction Limit for multiple comparisons with a retesting
     procedure when there is significant change or an exceedance

            UPL = x̄ + κs

     The κ multiplier for intrawell comparisons is found in Table 19-1 of the Unified
     Guidance for interwell comparisons and Table 19-10 of the Unified Guidance,
     and as Table 2 and 3 of this IMD, respectfully. These tables factor in the number
     of background samples, the number of wells, and the number of parameters used
     in compliance monitoring.


     4.6. CALCULATING NONPARAMETRIC UPPER PREDICTION
     LIMITS

     If the presence of a significant percent of non-detections affects the dataset’s
     ability to be ‘normalized’, then evaluate if the non-detect data can be successfully
     transformed with either the Kaplan-Meier or Robust Regression on Order
     Statistics (ROS) techniques. If these techniques produce censored probability
     plots that find a reasonable normality fit, a parametric prediction limit is
     acceptable. Otherwise, establish a nonparametric upper prediction limit by using
     the background data to set the limit as a large order statistic, such as the highest or
     second-highest background value. If the results for a parameter of concern


                                                         29
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted30Solid
                                                    30 Waste Facilities                  February 2011


     contains all non-detect data, then construct a non-parametric prediction limit
     using the LOQ for that parameter.

     It is important to know that using non-parametric prediction limits will require
     much more background data then normally needed. For example, 38 background
     samples are needed in order to predict two future samples with a 95% confidence.
     This is because we do not know the form of the underlying distribution of the
     non-parametric data.

     The process for calculating an approximate non-parametric limit is as follows:

         • Sort the background data by value/rank.

         • Set the non-parametric upper prediction limit (UPL) equal to the largest or
             second-largest value (note: it is important to determine if any of the
             ranked data are outliers before conducting this step. Outliers should not
             be included in the dataset used to establish limits.)

         • Use Table 18-1 of the Unified Guidance (Table 4 of this IMD) o determine
             the confidence level (1-α) for predicting the next ‘m’ future compliance
             point samples.

         • Compare each of the ‘m’ measurements to the UPL. Identify any significant
             exceedances.

         • Because the risk of a false positive error driving a decision can be
            increased if the confidence limit falls below the target rate of 90-95%, the
            actual confidence level can be determined on a routine basis, using the
            following equation;
                                           .
            1-α = (j + m-1)* (j+m-2)…*(j+1) j

                (n+m)*(n+m-1)…*(n+2)*(n+1)      where n= sample size, j=rank of
                                                prediction limit value, and m=number of
                                                future samples to be compared to the limit


     The above formula is appropriate for one constituent at a single compliance well.
     When multiple tests are required, determine the confidence level of the non-
     parametric UPL using Table 19.19 of the Unified Guidance (Table 5 of this IMD.)
     (note: be sure to include the 1 of 2 testing protocol.)




                                                     30
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted31Solid
                                                    31 Waste Facilities                    February 2011



     Chapter 5. Conducting Long-
     Term Compliance Monitoring
     The Department will approve a site-specific, long-term compliance monitoring
     program after background conditions are determined, a revised environmental
     monitoring plan (EMP) is approved, and concentration limits established.
     Compliance monitoring should include the collection and analysis of those
     parameters selected for concentration limits and other parameters that have been
     included in the approved EMP. Compliance monitoring should continue
     throughout the active life of the facility and the post-closure care period. As
     outlined in the permit, facilities will need to obtain the Department’s approval
     when there is a need to change the compliance-monitoring program.

     5.1    PERIODIC REVIEW OF CONCENTRATION LIMIT VALUES

     Every 5 years (at a minimum), DEQ staff should review the background
     groundwater quality data for facilities that used an inter-well statistical method of
     establishing concentration limits. This review should help determine if the
     existing concentration limits are still valid.

     Similarly, staff should review those facilities that used an intra-well statistical
     method for establishing site-specific concentration limits. Once every five years
     (at a minimum), the facility groundwater quality data that do not exceed the
     approved concentration limits coupled with all appropriate historical data can be
     used to calculate new statistical limits.

     These periods include both the permit renewal application and the 4-6 year
     Department review of any existing permit. These reviews and recalibration of
     limits improve the statistical power of the monitoring program by minimizing the
     frequency of false-positive and false-negative rates and decreasing result
     variances. Keeping these factors minimized can result in lower, statistically
     derived concentration limits.

     5.2  EVIDENCE OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN GROUNDWATER
     QUALITY

     Evaluation of groundwater monitoring data continues during long-term
     compliance monitoring. This review should occur immediately after receipt of the
     results from the laboratory. Analytical results should be checked after every
     monitoring event to assess if the data meet QA/QC criteria. Such a review of the
     water quality data will determine if there is an exceedance of a concentration limit
     or an indication of a significant change of water quality.



                                                      31
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted32Solid
                                                    32 Waste Facilities                February 2011


     A concentration limit exceedance would include the following:

           • Parameter detected at a concentration above a permit-specific
              concentration limit (PSCL), concentration limit variance (CLV) or an
              action limit (AL), or

           • Three or more parameters detected at a concentration above site-specific
             limits (SSL) in a specific monitoring location (if established).

     The Groundwater Quality Protection rules (OAR 340-40) require re-sampling
     when monitoring indicates a significant increase (increase or decrease for pH).
     The rule does not define the term “significant increase (increase or decrease for
     pH)”. In order to minimize unnecessary and expensive re-sampling, the DEQ SW
     Program has used the following in permits as examples of a “significant change in
     water quality”:

           • Quantification of a volatile organic compound (VOC), or other hazardous
             parameter, previously not detected during background groundwater
             quality monitoring, or

           • A new exceedance of an OAR 340-40, Table 1, 2 or 3 reference or
             guidance level, unless the background groundwater quality also exceeds
             these numerical limits, or

           • Exceeding any one federal primary drinking water standards (maximum
             contaminant levels [MCL]), established under the Safe Drinking Water
             Act, unless the background groundwater quality also exceeds these
             numerical limits, or

           • Quantification of a compound at an order of magnitude higher than
             background.

     Some permits direct the permittee to notify DEQ if the monitoring results identify
     either an exceedance of one or more concentration limit(s), or indicate a
     significant change in groundwater quality. Many of the SW permits require
     immediate verification sampling when an exceedance or a significant change of
     water quality occurs. Permittees should check with the DEQ Hydrogeologists if
     they suspect a significant change of water quality has occurred, to confirm the
     need for any re-sampling activity.

     Re-sampling may not be required, if the significant change in groundwater quality
     was previously detected and the permittee has confirmed that to the Department
     in writing.

     The assigned Solid Waste hydrogeologist should provide guidance to the
     permittee to evaluate their options for complying with Oregon’s Groundwater
     Quality Protection Rules (OAR 340-40.)

                                                    32
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted33Solid
                                                    33 Waste Facilities                     February 2011


     5.3       VERIFICATION RESAMPLING AND PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENTS

     If re-sampling results confirm the exceedance or significant change in
     groundwater quality, and if the change in groundwater quality cannot be
     explained after reviewing the original laboratory data, QA/QC reports and the re-
     sampling results, many of the permits direct the permittee to:

           • Notify the Department in writing of the change in groundwater quality
             within 10 days of receipt of the laboratory results. The notification should
             identify the monitoring well(s) and associated parameter(s).

           • If this is a Subtitle D landfill, perform assessment monitoring at the
             affected compliance well(s) within 90 days of confirmation of an
             exceedance. Assessment monitoring will not be required if there is a valid
             demonstration that the change in water quality is not attributable to landfill
             operations.

           • Submit a preliminary assessment (PA) work plan to the Department within
             30 days of confirmation to address the exceedance of one PSCL or a CLV of
             a previously undetected VOC, or other hazardous parameter is confirmed
             with resampling. The Department may approve an alternate schedule for
             submission of a PA work plan.

           • If an AL or three or more SSLs are exceeded, then the permittee should
             submit an informal preliminary assessment (IPA) work plan to the DEQ SW
             Program within 30 days of confirmation, unless another schedule is
             approved by the Department.

     No further action is needed if the resampling did not confirm the significant
     change. The permittee should resume long-term compliance monitoring. The
     original anomalous result should be flagged in the statistical database and
     replaced with the resample results when statistics are generated (per the 1 of 2
     re-sampling protocol). The subsequent annual environmental monitoring report
     should discuss this event.

     The inclusion of anomalies and systematic error values in the database used for
     statistical evaluations could cause misinterpretation of the database and result in
     high false positive (an indication of a release when none exists) or false negative
     (concluding there is no release when one exists) conclusions.




                                                        33
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted34Solid
                                                    34 Waste Facilities                        February 2011




     References

       Cravy, TD., McIassac, P, and Gibbons, R.D., 1990. Evaluation of organic indicator para‐
       meters using an Appendix VII/IX Database: presented at Waste Tech ’90 Landfill
       Technology: Back to Basics. San Francisco, CA.

       Gibbons. R.D., 1994. Intra‐well statistical methods for ground‐water monitoring at
       waste disposal sites. Chicago. July 25.

       Gibbons, R.D., 1996. Statistical methods for groundwater monitoring at WMX Columbia Ridge
       Landfill & Recycling Center. March 1.

       Hem, J. D., 1992. Study and Interpretation of the Chemical Characteristics of Natural
       Water. U.S. Geological Survey Water‐Supply Paper 2254.

       Plumb, R.H., 1991. The occurrence of Appendix IX organic constituents in disposal site
       groundwater. GWMR, 11(2):157‐164.

       US EPA 1992. Statistical analysis of ground‐water monitoring data at RCRA facilities.
       Addendum to interim final guidance document. July.

       US EPA 1996. Soil Screening Guidance: Users Guide. July.

       US EPA 2009. Statistical analysis of groundwater monitoring data at RCRA facilities:
       Unified Guidance. March.




                                                        34
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted35Solid
                                                    35 Waste Facilities                        February 2011



     Appendix A: Parameter Groups –
     Solid Waste Facilities
     Group 1a: Field indicators
     The following parameters comprise the field indicators parameter group:
             Elevation of water level                Specific Conductance
             pH                                      Dissolved Oxygen
             Temperature                             Eh
     These parameters must be measured in the field at the time samples are collected, either
     down-hole in situ, in a flow-through cell, or immediately following sample recovery, with
     instruments calibrated to relevant standards


     Group 1b: Leachate indicators
     The following parameters comprise the laboratory indicators parameter group
              Hardness (as CaCO3)                   Total Dissolved Solids (TDS)
              Total Alkalinity (as CaCO3)           Total Suspended Solids (TSS)
              Total Organic Carbon (TOC)            Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
              Specific Conductance (lab)            pH (lab)
              Tannin/Lignin (woodwaste)
     Sample handling, preservation, and analysis are determined by requirements for each
     individual analyte.


     Group 2a: Common anions and cations
     The following parameters comprise the common anions and cations parameter group:
              Calcium (Ca)                        Manganese (Mn)
              Sulfate (SO4)                       Magnesium (Mg)
              Ammonia (NH3)                       Chloride (Cl)
              Sodium (Na)                         Carbonate (CO3)
              Nitrate (NO3)                       Potassium (K)
              Silica (SiO2)                       Bicarbonate (HCO3)
              Iron (Fe)                           Ammonium (NH4)
              Fluoride (F)
     Dissolved concentrations must be measured. Samples must be field-filtered and field-
     preserved. Results reported in mg/L and meq/L.


     Group 2b: Trace metals
     The following parameters comprise the trace metals parameter group:
              Antimony (Sb)                  Chromium (Cr)                     Selenium (Se)
              Arsenic (As)                   Cobalt (Co)                       Silver (Ag)
              Barium (Ba)                    Copper (Cu)                       Thallium (Tl)
              Beryllium (Be)                 Lead (Pb)                         Vanadium (V)
              Cadmium (Cd)                   Nickel (Ni)                       Zinc (Zn)


                                                        35
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted36Solid
                                                    36 Waste Facilities                         February 2011



     If the Total Suspended Solids concentration is less than or equal to 100.0 mg/L in the
     sample then analyze metals for total concentrations (unfiltered). If the Total Suspended
     Solids concentration is greater than 100.0 mg/L in the sample then analyze metals for
     both dissolved (filtered) and total concentrations (unfiltered).


     Group 3: Volatile organic constituents

     Analysis for all compounds detectable by an appropriate EPA Method, including a library
     search to identify any unknown compounds present. EPA Method 8260 comprises the
     volatile organic constituent’ parameter group.




                                                         36
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted37Solid
                                                    37 Waste Facilities              February 2011



     Appendix B – Boxplot




     In descriptive statistics, a box plot or boxplot (also known as a box-and-whisker
     diagram or plot) is a convenient way of graphically depicting groups of numerical
     data through their five-number summaries (the smallest observation (sample
     minimum), lower quartile (Q1), median (Q2), upper quartile (Q3), and largest
     observation (sample maximum). A boxplot may also indicate which observations,
     if any, might be considered outliers.

     Source:
     http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/89/Boxplot_vs_PDF.png



                                                   37
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted38Solid
                                                    38 Waste Facilities                       February 2011



     Appendix C

                              Shapiro-Wilk Example
     The Shapiro-Wilk test is the most reliable test of-normality/non-normality for a
     sample size of 3-50, and is suitable for use on un-altered data or on transformed
     data. The test will compute a Shapiro-Wilk statistic (SW) which is then
     compared to an α- critical level point. If the test statistic SW is greater than the α-
     critical level, there is significant evidence of normal distribution. If the test
     statistic SW is less than the α-critical level, there is significant evidence of non-
     normal distribution.

     Shapiro-Wilk Example: How to compute a SW for a dataset with 20
     samples from a single or pooled background well(s)

                      Xi           X(n-i +1)    X(n-I +1) –     a(n-i+1)           bi
        i
                     ranked        Column 2        Xi          from Table      Column 4
                concentration      in reverse   Column 3-      10.2 in EPA    multiplied by
               lowest to highest     order       Column 2         U.G.         Column 5
        1     3.4                    321          317.6         0.4734          150.35
        2     4.0                    271          267.0         0.3211           85.73
        3     4.5                    255          250.5         0.2565           64.25
        4     5.6                    150          144.4         0.2085           30.11
        5     6.7                    126          119.3         0.1686           20.11
        6     10.0                   120          110.0         0.1334           14.67
        7     21                     102           81.0         0.1013            8.21
        8     33                      98           65.0         0.0711            4.62
        9     35                      80           55.0         0.0422            2.32
       10     63                      65            2.0         0.0140            0.03
       11     65                      63           -2.0
       12     80                      35          -55.0                       b = 380.40
       13     98                      33          -65.0
       14     102                     21          -81.0
       15     120                    10.0        -110.0
       16     126                    6.7         -119.3
       17     150                    5.6         -144.4
       18     255                    4.5         -250.3
       19     271                    4.0         -267.0
       20     321                    3.4         -317.6




                                                          38
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted39Solid
                                                    39 Waste Facilities                       February 2011



     SW = [ b/ (s)(√(n-1) ]
                                      2
                                              [note: s = standard deviation]


     SW = [ 380.4/ (95.83)(√(19) ]
                                                 2


     SW = 0.8293
     From Table 10.3 of the EPA Unified Guidance, the α- critical level for 0.01 with
     20 samples is 0.868. The calculated SW of 0.8298 is less than the α- critical
     level, thus the data set shows significant evidence of non-normality. The data can
     be transformed (log/ln) and normality rechecked before proceeding with a
     nonparametric procedure. Unified Guidance Tables that are important for the
     Shapiro-Wilk calculations are included in Table 6 of this IMD.

     Note: for data sets of n<10, α- critical level = 0.10; for datasets of 10<n<20, α-
     critical level = 0.05; for datasets greater than 20 and <50, α- critical level = 0.01.
     When n > 50, use the Shapiro-Francia test of normality.




                                                       39
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted40Solid
                                                    40 Waste Facilities                   February 2011



     Appendix D
         Non Parametric Comparisons with Pooled
               Background Data Example
         Sample          Concentration of a single parameter in pooled    Concentration
          Event                   background wells (ug/L)                 in Compliance
                                                                            Well CW-1
                       BG MW-1            BG MW-2             BG MW-3         (ug/L)

     1             7                 <5                <5

     2             6.5               <5                <5

     3             <5                8                 10.5              8

     4             12                <5                <5                14

     5             <5                9                 <5                <5

     6             6                 10                9                 7.5


          Ranking the background data, n=18, the maximum value would be 12 ug/L.
            The non-parametric UPL is set at 12.

           Comparing the compliance well data to the UPL, one can see that in event
             4, the value in CW-1 of 14 ug/L exceeds the UPL.

           To better assess this ‘exceedance’, compute the confidence level and the
             false positive rate associates with the UPL Use the following constants:
                  o n = 18
                  o m = number of CW measurements (comparisons) = 4
                  o Confidence level = n/(n+m) = 18/22 = 82% 0r 0.82
                  o False positive rate (Type 1 error) = 1-0.82 = 18%
                  o The test is significant at α = 0.18.


     In this example, there is an approximate one in five chance that the exceedance is
     falsely verified. Additional background data can help to lower the false positive
     rate.


                                                        40
IMD: Developing Concentration Limits at Permitted41Solid
                                                    41 Waste Facilities   February 2011



     Attachment 1

     Associated Tables from US EPA Unified Guidance
     Document, 2009




                                               41
