 Internal
[Type text] Management Directive


Arsenic Reduction Policy in
Surface Water Drinking Water
Source Areas

Version 1.0                                  Water Quality Division
                                             Standards and
                                             Assessment Section
                                             811 SW 6th Avenue
                                             Portland, OR 97204
                                             Phone:     (503) 229-5696
                                                        (800) 452-4011
                                             Fax:       (503) 229-6762

                                             Contact: Andrea Matzke
                                             www.oregon.gov/DEQ


                                             DEQ is a leader in
                                             restoring, maintaining
                                             and enhancing the quality
                                             of Oregon’s air, land and
                                             water.




                                              Last Updated: xx/xx/xx
                                              By: Andrea Matzke
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water iii iii
                                         Drinking Water Source Areas


Table of Contents
1.0 Introduction and Background................................................................................1
   1.1 Purpose ............................................................................................................................................. 1
   1.2 Arsenic Reduction Policy Applicability .............................................................................................. 1
   1.3 History and Development .................................................................................................................. 2
   1.4 Arsenic Sources and Health Effects ................................................................................................. 3
2.0 Data Needs ..............................................................................................................3
   2.1 Industrial Monitoring Requirements for Arsenic ................................................................................ 4
   2.2 Data Needs and Considerations ....................................................................................................... 5
3.0 Applicability Determination for an Industrial Discharger....................................6
   3.1 Flowchart Overview ........................................................................................................................... 6
   3.2 Steps to Determine Policy Applicability ............................................................................................. 7
   Step 1: Does an Individual NPDES Industry Discharge to a Surface Water Drinking
   Water Source Area? ................................................................................................................................ 7
   Step 2: Does a Discharger Add Arsenic to the Receiving Stream? .......................................................8
   Step 3: Does a Discharger Significantly Increase Arsenic to the Receiving Stream? ...........................8
4.0 Arsenic Reduction Plan Development ..................................................................9
   4.1 Arsenic Reduction Measures ......................................................................................................... 10
      4.1.1 Estimated Reduced Risk to Human Health ............................................................................ 11
       4.1.2 Feasibility Evaluation of Reduction Options ........................................................................... 13
   4.2 Monitoring and Reporting Requirements to Document Progress .................................................. 14
   4.3 Implementation Schedule............................................................................................................... 14
5.0 Public Comment and DEQ Approval ...................................................................15
6.0 Renewal .................................................................................................................15
7.0 Applicability to Other NPDES Permits ................................................................16
   7.1 General Permits ............................................................................................................................. 16
   7.2 Industrial Stormwater Permits ........................................................................................................ 16
8.0 Applicability to Agriculture ..................................................................................18
APPENDIX A: Revisions History ..................................................................................20
APPENDIX B:            Arsenic Reduction Policy Rule Language...........................................21
APPENDIX C: List and Map of Industrial Dischargers to Surface Water Drinking
Water Source Areas....................................................................................................24


Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                                                                       iii
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water iv iv
                                         Drinking Water Source Areas

APPENDIX D: Summary List and Map of General Permit Dischargers to Surface
Water Drinking Water Source Areas .........................................................................29
APPENDIX E: Summary List and Map of Industrial Stormwater Permit
Dischargers to Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas .................................31




Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                      iv
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                              May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             1 1                                                   Page 1 of 32




1.0 Introduction and Background
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to provide guidance to Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ)
permitting staff in implementing the Arsenic Reduction Policy, set forth in OAR 340-041-0033(7). This
rule ensures that Oregon’s revised arsenic criteria, which are intended to account for natural conditions, do
not unintentionally allow preventable human health risk due to the addition of anthropogenic (human-
caused) sources of arsenic into surface water drinking water source areas. In order to minimize the
amount of arsenic added to surface waters from human-caused sources, the rule is targeted at industrial
dischargers who meet water quality standards for arsenic, but nonetheless, contribute inorganic arsenic to
Oregon waters and have the potential to impact the quality of a surface water public drinking water supply
downstream of its discharge. In specific circumstances, an individual industrial discharger may be
required to develop an arsenic reduction plan, describing all feasible measures it will take, to reduce its
inorganic arsenic addition to the receiving water. Upon DEQ review and approval, the plan, including the
proposed measures, monitoring and reporting requirements, and a schedule for those actions, will be
incorporated into the source’s NPDES permit.


1.2 Arsenic Reduction Policy Applicability
This rule is not applicable to individual industrial dischargers, general permits and industrial stormwater
permits, or agricultural lands outside the boundary of surface water drinking water source areas. The Arsenic
Reduction Policy only applies to new or existing individual NPDES industrial discharges to surface water
drinking water source areas that significantly increase the concentration of arsenic in the receiving stream
(see Section 3.0, Step 3). DEQ delineated these surface water drinking water source areas for the purpose
of protecting public or community drinking water supplies from contaminants found in surface water
sources, such as rivers and lakes. There are currently 59 individual NPDES industrial facilities
discharging to these areas (see Appendix C). In addition, this rule is further focused on receiving
waterbodies that have ambient inorganic arsenic concentrations equal to or lower than the applicable
numeric criterion (i.e. not currently impaired for arsenic) 1. This rule is not applicable when a discharge
causes or contributes to a water quality standard exceedance for arsenic. The permittee must explore other
compliance options to meet effluent limits.

Note that some industrial facilities increase the concentration of arsenic present in their source water
through, as an example, multiple-pass non-contact cooling processes. However, this rule applies only to
industrial processes that add arsenic mass to drinking water sources, rather than concentrate it (by removal
of water volume) from source waters. Therefore, this rule does not apply to industrial dischargers that
only concentrate arsenic.



1
  The human health “water + organism” arsenic criterion of 2.1 µg/L applies here because the waterbodies included within the
surface water drinking water source areas are designated for domestic drinking water supply (i.e. “water”) and fishing, including
fish consumption (i.e. “organism”).
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                        May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             2 2                                             Page 2 of 32


The Arsenic Reduction Policy also directed DEQ to develop information on potential inputs of arsenic
from sources covered by general permits or industrial stormwater permits. If future data or information
show that these discharges are impacting downstream surface water drinking water source areas, then
DEQ will evaluate options for reducing inorganic arsenic at the time of permit renewal or through
evaluation of Stormwater Pollution Control Plans (OAR 340-041-0033(7)(f)(A)(i)). Section 7 of this IMD
provides descriptions of these permits and the likelihood of arsenic contributions. At this time, available
information does not suggest further reduction measures are warranted. Consequently, additional best
management practices for specific reductions of arsenic are likely not necessary in addition to those
already required by the permits.

Additionally, it is the general policy of the Environmental Quality Commission that landowners engaged
in agricultural or development practices on land where use of pesticides, fertilizers, or soil amendments
containing arsenic have previously or have currently been applied in surface water drinking water source
areas should employ conservation practices to minimize erosion of soil to waters of the state (OAR 340-
041-0033(7)(g)). The Department of Agriculture’s Water Quality Management Program Area Plans and
Rules contain sediment Prevention and Control Measures that are required on agricultural and rural lands.
Information currently available does not suggest the need to develop additional soil conservation practices
specifically for arsenic. Therefore, at this time, DEQ staff do not need to conduct further assessments of
soil conservation practices. See Section 8 of this IMD for more information on agricultural use of arsenical
pesticides in Oregon and DEQ’s Toxics Reduction Strategy.

See Section 3.0 for detailed rule applicability information. If permit writers or other DEQ staff have
further questions about the applicability of this rule, contact Headquarters’ permitting or water quality
standards staff.


1.3 History and Development
During the 2008 – 2011 rulemaking for the human health toxics criteria revisions, DEQ worked with a
group of stakeholders to revise criteria for arsenic (a carcinogen), iron, and manganese. These three
elements are naturally occurring in soil and, for arsenic, can be found in Oregon waters at natural
background concentrations greater than the previous “water + org” human health criterion of 0.0022 µg/L.
Therefore, DEQ worked with stakeholders to develop arsenic criteria that were protective of human health,
yet accounted for natural levels of arsenic in Oregon waterbodies. In addition, Oregon has a Maximum
Contaminant Level for drinking water established under the Safe Drinking Water Act of 10 µg/L which
specifically protects consumers from arsenic in drinking water. Oregon also has arsenic criteria for the
protection of aquatic life, such as fish, shellfish, and aquatic insects.

In June 2011, the Environmental Quality Commission adopted less stringent arsenic criteria based on a
higher cancer risk level (i.e. 1 x 10-4 for “water + org” criterion) than the risk DEQ typically uses (i.e. 1 x
10-6) when establishing numeric criteria, and incorporated a smaller bioconcentration factor (BCF) than
EPA’s national default BCF value for arsenic2. EPA subsequently approved the revised arsenic criteria in
October 2011 (see Table 1). This resulted in a change in human health criteria from 0.0022 µg/L for total

2
 ODEQ. Issue Paper: Water Quality Standards Review and Recommendations: Arsenic. April 21, 2011. See:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/standards/docs/toxics/metals/AppEArsenicIssuePaper.pdf
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                                      May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             3 3                                                           Page 3 of 32


arsenic to 2.1 µg/L for total inorganic arsenic. The revised criteria are based on total inorganic arsenic
because that form is more toxic than organic forms of arsenic.

DEQ and the stakeholder group developed the Arsenic Reduction Policy to work in tandem with the
revised arsenic criteria by limiting inputs of human-caused arsenic to downstream public water systems
that use surface water as a source of its drinking water. For more information on the development of
criteria for arsenic, including the criteria revisions for iron and manganese, see rulemaking documents at:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/standards/metals.htm.

Table 1: Effective Arsenic Criteria for the Protection of Human Health
                                                                         Human Health Criteria for the Consumption
                                                                                            of:

                                                      Aquatic Life          Water + Organism           Organism Only
     Pollutant       CAS No.       Carcinogen          Criterion                 (µg/L)                    (µg/L)
    Arsenic                                                                                              2.1(freshwater)
                A     7440382             y                 no                       2.1
    (inorganic)                                                                                          1.0 (saltwater)
      A
        The arsenic criteria are expressed as total inorganic arsenic. The “organism only” criteria are based on a risk
                                            -5                                                                        -4
         level of approximately of 1.1 x 10 , and the “water + organism” criterion is based on a risk level of 1 x 10




1.4 Arsenic Sources and Health Effects
Arsenic occurrence in water is caused by the weathering and dissolution of arsenic bearing rocks,
minerals, and ores and from various industrial and other human-caused processes. Although arsenic exists
in both organic and inorganic forms, the inorganic forms are more prevalent in water and more toxic.
According to the EPA3, approximately 90 percent of industrial arsenic in the U.S. is currently used as a
wood preservative (i.e. Copper Chromated Arsenate or CCA) for “pressure-treated wood”. Arsenic is also
used in paints, dyes, metals, drugs, soaps and semi-conductors. High arsenic levels can also come from
certain fertilizers, pesticides, and animal feeding operations. Industry practices such as copper smelting,
mining and coal burning can also contribute to arsenic in the environment.

The EPA has classified arsenic as a Class A human carcinogen. These are pollutants with adequate human
data indicating the chemical causes cancer in people. Exposure to arsenic can cause a variety of dermal,
gastro-intestinal, liver, neurologic, and cardiovascular effects, as well as an increased risk of skin, lung,
and bladder cancers.4


2.0 Data Needs
Information needed to determine if the Arsenic Reduction Policy applies to an industrial discharger can
generally be obtained through data collected as part of federal and state monitoring requirements. Sections


3
 USEPA. Basic Information About the Arsenic Rule. See: http://water.epa.gov/lawsregs/rulesregs/sdwa/arsenic/Basic-
Information.cfm
4
 Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Case Studies in Environmental Medicine: Arsenic Toxicity. October 1,
2009. See: http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/csem/arsenic/docs/arsenic.pdf
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                             May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             4 4                                                  Page 4 of 32


2.1 and 2.2 below describe monitoring requirements for arsenic, including data needs and other
considerations when applying this rule.


2.1 Industrial Monitoring Requirements for Arsenic
Not all industrial dischargers are required to monitor for arsenic. Industrial NPDES permits have a
complex process to determine monitoring requirements based on the Standard Industrial Classification
(SIC) category and the potential for toxic pollutants in the effluent and in the receiving waterbody.
Industries are generally classified as either primary or non-primary.

An industry is considered a primary industry if it is listed in Appendix A in 40 CFR Part 1225. Please
refer to Section 2 of the Reasonable Potential Analysis for Toxics Pollutants IMD (RPA IMD)6 for more
information on determining the category of an industrial facility. Depending on the industry type, the
permittee must monitor for specific toxics listed in EPA Application Form 2C7. The major/minor
designation for industries is based on the NPDES Permit Rating Worksheet8 and accounts for flow and
other characteristics. All primary industries, regardless of major/minor status, must monitor for toxic
metals9, including total arsenic, as part of the Priority Pollutant Scan. Federal regulations do not require
non-primary industries to monitor for toxic metals, including total arsenic, unless the discharger (or permit
writer) believes it is present at 10 µg/L or greater in its discharge. Seven out of eight major industrial
facilities located within surface water drinking water source areas currently monitor for arsenic, while
almost half of the minor industrial facilities (approximately 20) discharging to surface water drinking
water source areas monitor for arsenic. See Appendix C for this list of major and minor industrial
facilities.

In order for DEQ to determine whether or not the arsenic load from an industrial discharger listed in
Appendix C is likely to increase the concentration of arsenic to a downstream drinking water supply, the
permit writer must conduct the applicability analysis described in Section 3.2. Preliminary data review of
arsenic effluent monitoring results from industrial discharges in drinking water source areas indicate that


5
  Certain industrial categories per 40 CFR Part 122 Appendix A: Adhesives and sealants, Aluminum forming, Auto and other
laundries, Battery manufacturing, Coal mining, Coil coating, Copper forming, Electrical and electronic components,
Electroplating, Explosives manufacturing, Foundries, Gum and wood chemicals, Inorganic chemicals manufacturing, Iron and
steel manufacturing, Leather tanning and finishing, Mechanical products manufacturing, Nonferrous metals manufacturing, Ore
mining, Organic chemicals manufacturing, Paint and ink formulation, Pesticides, Petroleum refining, Pharmaceutical
preparations, Photographic equipment and supplies, Plastics processing, Plastic and synthetic materials manufacturing, Porcelain
enameling, Printing and publishing, Pulp and paper mills, Rubber processing, Soap and detergent manufacturing, Steam electric
power plants, Textile mills, and Timber products processing

6
 ODEQ. Reasonable Potential Analysis for Toxics Pollutants Internal Management Directive, Rev. 3.1. February 2012. See
also: http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/pubs/pubs.htm#imds
7
 EPA. Application Form 2C – Wastewater Discharge Information. Consolidated Permits Program. EPA Form 3510-2C.
Revised August 1990. See also:
http://www.mde.state.md.us/programs/Permits/WaterManagementPermits/Documents/www.mde.state.md.us/assets/document/per
mit/3510-2C.pdf
8
    See http://deq05/wq/wqpermits/Tools/NPDESPRWrkShtFillable.pdf
9
    per Table III in Appendix D (40 CFR 122.21(g)(7)(v)(B).
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                        May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             5 5                                             Page 5 of 32


some dischargers have a potential to increase arsenic concentrations to downstream drinking water
suppliers; therefore, the permit writer should conduct the applicability analysis for any permittee performing
arsenic monitoring required by state or federal regulations. Further, a permit writer should require arsenic
monitoring for any industrial facility that does not currently perform arsenic monitoring if the permit
writer determines that its industrial process is likely to add arsenic to downstream drinking water sources.
In the permit, these monitoring requirements should be noted in Schedule B.


2.2 Data Needs and Considerations
The arsenic criteria for human health and the Arsenic Reduction Policy are both based on total inorganic
arsenic which represents the most toxic form of arsenic. Because many facilities do not yet collect
inorganic data, DEQ recommends the use of total arsenic data to conservatively approximate the amount of
total inorganic arsenic present, until such time inorganic arsenic data is available. Hereafter, any reference
to inorganic arsenic also includes total arsenic data if inorganic data is not available.

Permit holders must use approved analytical methods and quantitation limits (OAR 340-041-
0033(7)(f)(B)) to quantify either total arsenic (0.5 µg/L) or total inorganic arsenic (1 µg/L) according to
the most current version of the Quantitation Limits for NPDES Permitting IMD10. The approved analytical
method for total inorganic arsenic is EPA Method 1632 A, while the approved analytical method for total
arsenic is EPA Method 200.8.

Generally, the data collected by the permittee as part of its Schedule B monitoring requirements for
arsenic, if applicable, is sufficient to conduct this analysis. Permit writers may need additional data from a
public water system if the calculation to assess significant arsenic addition is conducted at the public water
system source water intake (see Section 3.2, Step 3). Typically, the permit writer will analyze the data
collected during Tier I and Tier II monitoring to calculate significance and, if applicable, the discharger
will develop an arsenic reduction plan as part of its renewed permit. However, if a discharger does not
have sufficient data for the permit writer to conduct the arsenic analysis at permit renewal, the permit
writer will include sampling requirements in Schedule B that are sufficient to conduct the analysis at the
next permit renewal.

At renewal, the discharger must submit the following available arsenic data in Table 2 to the permit writer,
and in accordance with monitoring requirements described in Section 2.2.4 “Industrial Facilities:
Evaluation and Monitoring Requirements” in the RPA IMD:




10
     In development, as of March 2013
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                            May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             6 6                                                 Page 6 of 32


Table 2: Required Arsenic Data

                Required Arsenic Data:
           1.   All relevant arsenic data collected from the effluent as part of the Tier 1 (year 0-2 of
                permit cycle) and Tier II (year 3 of permit cycle) Priority Pollutant Scan (i.e. generally, a
                minimum of four composite samples collected semiannually over two years) or other
                required monitoring, including effluent discharge flow.
           2.   Arsenic concentration and flow data from facility source water intake if representative of
                upstream ambient conditions of receiving stream.
                     If the source water is not from the receiving stream (e.g. groundwater, other surface
                     water, or community water system sources), the permittee must collect upstream
                     ambient arsenic data and flow to calculate mixing if not otherwise available.
                     Typically, ambient data is collected as part of Tier II monitoring requirements.
           3.   Arsenic concentration and flow data from downstream drinking water source intake IF
                the permit writer uses this alternative calculation.



Permit writers may also access other data sources, such as data collected through DEQ’s Toxics
Monitoring Program11 or LASAR database, and data from USGS to find arsenic or flow data
representative of upstream conditions.

Any arsenic monitoring requirements should be described in Schedule B according to Section 2.5
“Schedule B: Suggested Monitoring Requirement Language” in the RPA IMD. The permit holder should
provide a tabular summary of the water quality data to the permit writer according to established
procedures described in Section 2.4 “Reporting Procedures” in the RPA IMD.


3.0 Applicability Determination for an
  Industrial Discharger
3.1 Flowchart Overview
The flow chart below in Figure 1 describes the step by step process of determining the applicability of the
Arsenic Reduction Policy to an industrial discharger, whether the discharger adds and significantly
increases inorganic arsenic to a drinking water source, and the need to develop an arsenic reduction plan.
The flowchart includes references to where more information may be found in the IMD.




11
  DEQ is collecting toxics data, including arsenic, on a rotating basis in different watersheds throughout Oregon. The Willamette
data is now final and includes 20 monitoring sites along the mainstem Willamette and its largest tributaries. Sampling in central
Oregon was completed in 2012 and sampling is scheduled for coastal Oregon in 2013. See website:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/lab/wqm/toxics.htm.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                                  May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             7 7                                                       Page 7 of 32



Figure 1: Arsenic Reduction Policy Flowchart




                                                                                Does discharger add
                                                   As Reduction Policy        inorganic As to drinking
                                                       is applicable               water source?
                                                                                [Section 3.2, Step 2]


                                                                                                    YES
                                                          YES
         Individual Industrial                   Discharge to surface water                      Does discharger
             Dischargers                        drinking water source area?                   significantly increase
    [Required to monitor for arsenic or
                                                    [Section 3.2, Step 1]                   inorganic As to drinking
            identified by DEQ]                                                                    water source?
                                                                                              [Section 3.2, Step 3]
               Start                                      NO
                                                                                NO                   YES

                                                                                            Develop As Reduction
                                                   As Reduction Policy                              Plan
                                                    is not applicable                           [Section 4.0]




                                                                                           Public Comment: Include
                                                                                            As Reduction Plan with
                                          End   DEQ Permit Writer Approval                        draft permit
                                                       [Section 5.0]                              [Section 5.0]




3.2 Steps to Determine Policy Applicability

Step 1: Does an Individual NPDES Industry Discharge to
   a Surface Water Drinking Water Source Area?
If an industrial discharger does not discharge to a surface water drinking water source area, this policy
does not apply. DEQ staff analyzed information from DEQ's Source Information System (SIS) database
and the surface water drinking water protection area maps to determine which industrial dischargers are
affected by this rule. Surface water drinking water source areas are delineated by DEQ (in cooperation
with the Oregon Health Authority) for the purpose of protecting public water systems that use surface
water sources. For surface water systems, the drinking water source area delineation process is performed
by using the fifth-field hydrologic unit (watershed) boundaries. All drinking water intakes are located with
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                              May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             8 8                                                    Page 8 of 32


a Geographic Positioning System. The surface water delineation includes the entire watershed area
upstream of the intake structure. Source water assessments12 for public water systems meeting specific
requirements have all been completed in Oregon and include delineation, an inventory of potential
contaminant sources, and a susceptibility analysis.

Appendix C contains a list and map of all industries with individual NPDES permits discharging to surface
water drinking water source areas. This list is current as of August 2012. Although DEQ intends to
update this list periodically, permit writers should confirm whether or not this rule pertains to any new or
renewing industrial permit. The drinking water program staff at DEQ headquarters (see:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/dwp/contacts.htm) can assist permit writers in determining if a new NPDES
industrial facility discharges to a drinking water source area.


Step 2: Does a Discharger Add Arsenic to the Receiving
   Stream?
The second step in the process is to determine whether the industrial discharge adds inorganic arsenic (i.e.
arsenic mass added from the industrial process rather than originating from the surface water source). To
conduct this assessment, the permit writer needs arsenic data from the discharger and the receiving
waterbody (See Section 2.2).

Because this rule focuses on arsenic added by an industrial source rather than any arsenic that may already
be present in source water itself, the permit writer should subtract the mass of inorganic arsenic (or total
arsenic, depending on the data available) taken into the facility from the surface water source from the
mass of inorganic arsenic in the discharge before conducting the analysis. If the calculation demonstrates
that all the arsenic present in the effluent is coming from its surface water source and not from the industrial
process, then this rule does not apply. Note that the permit writer cannot subtract arsenic mass from
industrial source water originating from groundwater sources.13 This is because groundwater may contain
high levels of arsenic that may not have otherwise reached a surface water source had it not been
intercepted by the industrial discharger.


Step 3: Does a Discharger Significantly Increase Arsenic
   to the Receiving Stream?
If the calculation above demonstrates that a discharger adds arsenic from its industrial process, the permit
writer must then determine if that load is likely to increase the concentration of inorganic arsenic in a
downstream public drinking water supply. This is determined by calculating whether the discharge
increases the concentration of arsenic in the river by 10% or more above the upstream ambient concentration
after mixing with the harmonic mean flow of the receiving water. Alternatively, permit writers can
demonstrate that the arsenic contribution from the discharge will not increase the arsenic concentration in

12
     For more information on source water assessments, see: http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/dwp/dwp.htm
13
   OAR 340-041-0033(7)(c)(A): “Add inorganic arsenic” means to discharge a net mass of inorganic arsenic from a point source
(the mass of inorganic arsenic discharged minus the mass of inorganic arsenic taken into the facility from a surface water source).
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                     May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                             9 9                                          Page 9 of 32


the downstream water supply by more than 0.021 μg/L based on a mass balance calculation. This
concentration represents 1% of the human health criterion of 2.1 μg/L. The former calculation focuses at
the point of discharge, while the latter calculation measures increases of arsenic at the drinking water
intake, which could be some distance downstream of the point source discharge (assuming the entire mass
load is transported downstream to the intake location).

If the calculation indicates that the 10% threshold is exceeded at the point of discharge, the permit writer
may also conduct the alternative analysis by determining whether the source water for the downstream
public water supplier is impacted by the industrial source upstream. If this alternate calculation shows that
the water supply is not increased by 0.021 μg/L, then the permit writer may conclude the discharge does
not significantly contribute arsenic and a pollutant reduction plan is not required. This situation may occur
when the industrial discharge point is much farther upstream of the public water supplier source water;
consequently, the arsenic mass in the receiving stream at the discharge point is diluted by tributary or
groundwater inputs downstream.

Although certain water suppliers will have monitoring data for arsenic collected within the distribution
system (i.e. at the tap after any treatment), some public water suppliers or DEQ’s Drinking Water
Protection Program may also be able to provide permit writers with raw water arsenic data from the public
water systems’ source water. Contact information and previous monitoring results for each public water
supply are listed in the Oregon Health Authority’s Drinking Water Data Online database.

The RPA spreadsheet was updated to build in the significance test calculation procedure described above,
however, if permit writers have any questions regarding these calculations, contact Headquarters’
permitting staff.

An Arsenic Reduction Plan is required if the industrial discharge increases the concentration of arsenic in
the receiving stream by 10% or more, or increases the arsenic concentration of a downstream water supply
by more than 0.021μg/L. Otherwise, an Arsenic Reduction Plan is not needed. See Section 4.0 below for
more detail in developing a plan.


4.0 Arsenic Reduction Plan Development
Once the permit writer determines that a discharge significantly increases the concentration of inorganic
arsenic in the receiving stream as determined in Step 3 above, the industrial discharger must develop an
Arsenic Reduction Plan (hereafter referred to as “Plan”). The intent of the Plan is to reduce pollutant
contributions to the receiving stream to the maximum extent practicable. The range of reduction measures
will vary depending on the industrial process. Because this rule directs permit writers to subtract the
amount of arsenic found in its source water as part of the analysis, the remaining arsenic is either coming
from the raw products used in the industrial process, stormwater runoff, is specifically added to optimize
the industrial process, or from its groundwater source, if applicable. Therefore, the discharger will need to
review the entire industrial process to determine the source(s) of arsenic. This might include the review of
Material Safety Data Sheets, Chemical Specification Sheets, etc.

Once the source is identified, the discharger can research product alternatives, optimize treatment removal
processes, or improve containment of arsenic-containing compounds to minimize pathways to waterbodies
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                           May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           10 10                                               Page 10 of 32


(e.g. Stormwater Pollution Control Plan). In some cases, there may not be any product alternatives
available, or treatment optimization costs may be unreasonable or prohibitive. In these circumstances, the
discharger should provide a justification for why reduction measure are infeasible. Table 3 below
describes the minimum elements a permittee must include in their Plan.

Table 3: Pollutant Reduction Plan Minimum Elements

         Pollutant Reduction Plan Minimum Elements (OAR 340-041-0033(7)(e))

     The Plan must include the following elements:

         1. All proposed feasible arsenic reduction measures (See Section 4.1),
         2. Monitoring and reporting requirements (See Section 4.2), and
         3. Implementation schedule for those actions (See Section 4.3)



The Plan will be described in the permit fact sheet and incorporated into the discharger’s NPDES permit in
Schedule D. The language should state that the permit holder must comply with the attached Pollutant
Reduction Plan, and that the permit holder may not amend the Plan without DEQ approval. These Plans
must accompany the permit as part of the public comment and review process and be approved by the
DEQ permit writer.

For approval, DEQ expects, at a minimum, that the elements listed below in Sections 4.1 through 4.3 be
included as part of the Plan. A table, such as Table 5 in Section 4.3 below may be helpful in displaying
this information. The discharger should also provide a narrative to support the reduction measures
included in the Plan.


4.1 Arsenic Reduction Measures
The Plan must evaluate specific measures to reduce the input of arsenic to the receiving waterbody. If not
already known, the discharger should first conduct a source assessment to determine the source of arsenic.
If the source is originating from chemicals used in the industrial process, the discharger may need to
research whether there are any alternatives to that chemical and if they are appropriate to use.

For example, chromated copper arsenate (CCA) is a pesticide that is used as a preservative in pressure
treated wood to protect wood from rotting due to insects and microbes. According to the Toxics Release
Inventory (TRI)14, Oregon has historically had reported releases of arsenic from wood treating facilities—
presumably from CCA treated wood. CCA treated wood was used extensively in residential products such
as decks and playground equipment. Since December 31, 2003, no wood treater or manufacturer may
treat wood with CCA for residential uses15, although CCA continues to be used in industrial applications.
There are now alternative chemicals to CCA that wood treating industries may use, such as Alkaline

14
     EPA. Toxics Release Inventory. See: http://www.epa.gov/tri/
15
     EPA Website. Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances. See: http://www.epa.gov/oppad001/reregistration/cca/
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                           May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           11 11                                               Page 11 of 32


Copper Quaternary, borates, copper azole, cyproconazole, and propiconazole.16 Some of the wood treaters
permitted in Oregon have already switched to these arsenic-free preservatives.

It may be difficult to find alternative products in situations where the source of arsenic is in the raw
materials used for that industry (e.g. wood products). In these cases, adjustments made to the treatment
system to optimize arsenic removal may be more feasible. DEQ anticipates that industries will be aware
of resources to research available and feasible treatment technologies or other pollution reduction
alternatives. Table 4 below provides several of these resources. Additional information on arsenic
removal technologies for drinking water sources that could be applicable to industrial facilities are
described under Section 4.1.2.

Table 4: Treatment Technology Resources
Resources                            Website
EPA Technical Document               http://www.epa.gov/research/npd/waterqualityresearch-
Search                               pubs.htm
EPA National Risk                    http://www.epa.gov/nrmrl/wswrd/dw/arsenic/
Management Research
Laboratory—Arsenic
Research website
National Association of Clean        http://www.nacwa.org
Water Agencies
National Council for Air and         http://www.ncasi.org
Stream Improvement
Water Environment Research           http://www.werf.org
Federation

Given the range of pollution reduction options available to any given industrial process, the list of
measures developed by the discharger will vary. However, the permit writer should ensure that the
discharger conducted a thorough evaluation of all available options. Once a comprehensive list is
developed, the discharger should evaluate the feasibility of each reduction option. If any of the measures
are infeasible (see explanation under Section 4.1.2 below), the discharger should state the reasons why.
The final list of reasonable feasible reduction measures must include a supporting narrative and express
how much reduction is anticipated. A quantitative estimate of reduction potential is preferable, but a
qualitative analysis may suffice if this is not possible. Each reduction measure must include an
implementation schedule as part of the Plan.

4.1.1 Estimated Reduced Risk to Human Health
The discharger must provide an estimate of the reduction in risk to human health based on the proposed
arsenic reduction measures (OAR 340-041-0033(7)(e)(C). One way of estimating risk reduction is to first
determine the current level of risk associated with the receiving stream given the current arsenic discharge
using EPA’s equation for linear carcinogens (See Figure 2). Instead of calculating the ambient water
quality criterion for arsenic, the concentration of arsenic after mixing with the receiving stream is
substituted and then the equation solved for risk associated with that concentration (See Figure 3). The
next step is to plug in the expected concentration of arsenic in the receiving stream after pollutant
reduction measures are implemented and solve for the associated risk. The estimate in risk reduction to


16
     EPA Website. Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances. See: http://www.epa.gov/oppad001/reregistration/cca/
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                         May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           12 12                                          Page 12 of 32


human health would be the difference between the two risks. In some circumstances, this difference could
be negligible.

The variables below are derived from EPA default values with the exception of the Risk Factor,
Bioconcentration Factor, Inorganic Fraction of arsenic, and the Fish Consumption Rate which are DEQ-
derived variables. These variables were used to develop the “water + org” human health criterion. For
more information about the development of these variables, please see the arsenic rulemaking Issue
Paper.17
                          Figure 2: Equation for Linear Cancer Effects


                               AWQC =             RF x BW
                                         CSF x [DW + (BCF x FCR x IF)]



___________________________________________
Where:

AWQC (Arsenic Ambient Water Quality Criterion) = Water + fish ingestion criterion = 0.0021 mg/L
RF (Risk Factor) = 0.0001                     DW (Drinking Water Intake) = 2 L/day
BW (Body Weight) = 70 kg                      BCF (Bioconcentration Factor) = 14 L/kg
CSF (Cancer Slope Factor) = 1.5 kg day/mg     FCR (Fish Consumption Rate) = 0.175 kg/day
IF (Inorganic Fraction of Arsenic) = 0.1

                 Figure 3: Reconfigured Linear Cancer Equation to Determine Risk


                            RF = AWQC x [CSF x (DW + (BCF x FCR x IF))]
                                               BW

                                              or simplified as:

                            RF = AWQC mg/L x 0.048107

____________________________________________
Where:

AWQC (Ambient Water Quality Criterion mg/L) = the concentration of arsenic in receiving stream after
mixing with the harmonic mean flow. First use the current receiving stream concentration and then re-
calculate using the expected reduced stream concentration.



If the quantitative estimate is not meaningful because the difference in calculated risk is negligible, the
discharger may use a qualitative assessment to assess risk and risk reduction. These considerations may
include such information as:


17
  ODEQ. Issue Paper: Water Quality Standards Review and Recommendations: Arsenic. April 21, 2011. See:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/standards/docs/toxics/metals/AppEArsenicIssuePaper.pdf
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                              May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           13 13                                                  Page 13 of 32


      •   Proximity of drinking water intakes to the point of discharge;
      •   Concentrations of arsenic detected at downstream public or community water systems;
      •   Whether tributaries or streams downstream from the point of discharge help to dilute the effects
          of the discharge prior to reaching a drinking water intake; and
      •   Intermittent versus continuous discharge flow

Note that the above information should be provided by the discharger regardless of whether the risk
analysis is quantitative or qualitative.

4.1.2 Feasibility Evaluation of Reduction Options
There could be a number of measures to reduce arsenic from an industrial discharge to a drinking water
source, but not all options are necessarily feasible. As part of the reduction measure evaluation, the
permit holder should evaluate treatment technologies, alternative chemical use and/or raw materials, or
other possible pollutant reduction strategies. The facility can meet this requirement by indicating in the
evaluation that arsenic treatment technology for that type of facility is either not proven or the technology
is unaffordable, or that various pollution reduction strategies would not result in measurable reductions of
arsenic. In some cases, optimizing existing treatment technology (i.e. beyond standard proper operation
and maintenance requirements), rather than installing new treatment technologies, may produce some
reduction in arsenic without huge expenditures of capital.

The EPA documents, Arsenic Treatment Technology Evaluation Handbook for Small Systems18 and Costs
of Arsenic Removal Technologies for Small Water Systems: U.S. EPA Arsenic Removal Technology
Demonstration Program19 are excellent references on arsenic removal technologies and associated costs.
Although these documents were developed to assist small community water systems comply with the
revised Maximum Contaminant Level for arsenic (10 µg/L) promulgated in 2001, they provide detailed
information about various removal technologies, costs, and other considerations based on 50
demonstration projects across the country (several in Oregon). Average water demand for these size
systems is normally less than 1.4 million gallons per day.

Some of the considerations and conditions described in the handbook could apply to an industrial
discharge depending on particular circumstances (e.g. design flow, source water chemistry, industrial
process, percent arsenic removal required, etc.)20. These documents note that many treatment technologies
for inorganic arsenic removal require that arsenite (As III) be oxidized to arsenate (As V) to achieve
optimal performance. Effective oxidizing agents include chlorine, permanganate, ozone, and Filox-R™.
Also note that any arsenic residuals resulting from treatment processes must be disposed of in the proper



18
 USEPA. Arsenic Treatment Technology Evaluation Handbook for Small Systems. Office of Water. EPA 816-R-03-014. July
2003. See: http://water.epa.gov/drink/info/arsenic/upload/2005_11_21_arsenic_handbook_arsenic_treatment-tech.pdf
19
  USEPA. Costs of Arsenic Removal Technologies for Small Water Systems: U.S. EPA Arsenic Removal Technology
Demonstration Program. National Risk Management Research Laboratory. EPA/600/R-11/090. September 2011. See:
http://nepis.epa.gov/EPA/html/DLwait.htm?url=/Exe/ZyPDF.cgi?Dockey=P100CAXP.PDF
20
  Note that to remove arsenic concentrations to 2.1 µg/L or less, industrial dischargers may need to use both a
precipitation/coagulation technology and then an adsorptive media to “polish” the waste stream to further reduce arsenic levels.
Pers. communication with Tom Sorg, EPA National Risk Management Research Laboratory. July 30, 2012.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                             May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           14 14                                                 Page 14 of 32


manner (e.g. hazardous landfill if necessary)21. For more information on EPA research on arsenic removal
and costs, see EPA’s Arsenic Research website: http://www.epa.gov/nrmrl/wswrd/dw/arsenic/index.html.

In summary, the feasibility analysis should have sufficient detail to demonstrate the discharger has
researched and evaluated the feasibility of arsenic reduction measures. As part of this analysis, the
discharger should weigh the technical and economic feasibility of an arsenic reduction measure against the
reduced human health risk that is expected to result in deciding which measures to implement. For
measures not pursued, the discharger should state specifically why any measure was considered infeasible.
The discharger can conduct an economic analysis, such as described in EPA's 1995 Interim Economic
Guidance for Water Quality Standards22 which describes the steps involved in the determination of
“substantial and widespread economic and social impact” for point sources, but this level of analysis is not
necessary to meet the feasibility demonstration under this rule.


4.2 Monitoring and Reporting Requirements to
    Document Progress
The supporting narrative should identify how the permit holder will track and assess progress towards the
pollutant reduction goals established for arsenic, as well as the accomplishments of specific activities.
DEQ expects permit holders to consider both quantitative (numeric) and qualitative performance measures
or metrics for both plan activities
and goals.                                  Performance Metrics Examples:
                                          1.   Percent completion of an improved Stormwater Pollution
                                               Control Plan.
The permit writer should work         2.       Number of source identification sampling events held
with the discharger to determine               by December 2014.
monitoring requirements               3.       Number of business and manufacturing partners contacted
sufficient to ascertain any                    regarding material process change by March 2015.
                                      4.       Percentage of facility treatment upgrade completed by
progress accomplished from
                                               January 2016.
reduction measures implemented        5.       Concentration of arsenic in effluent in relation to
over the permit cycle. Current                 baseline measurement. Concentration will be measured
monitoring requirements for                    during two sampling events no later than December 2014.
arsenic may already be sufficient,
but in other circumstances, increased monitoring could be warranted. Monitoring requirements should be
detailed in Schedule B of the permit.


4.3 Implementation Schedule
The permittee must develop an implementation schedule to track important milestones in implementing
arsenic reduction measures. It may be helpful for the discharger to develop a pollution reduction measure


21
  Note that none of the arsenic treatment technology residuals in the 50 demonstration projects resulted in an exceedance of the
TCLP hazardous waste limit for arsenic (i.e. 5 mg/L). Pers. communication with Tom Sorg, EPA National Risk Management
Research Laboratory. July 30, 2012.
22
  EPA. 1995 Interim Economic Guidance for Water Quality Standards (EPA-823-B-95-002), updated 3/17/11. Also includes
helpful worksheets and guidance in conducting the economic analysis.
See http://water.epa.gov/scitech/swguidance/standards/economics/
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                         May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           15 15                                          Page 15 of 32


chart as a way to track implementation of arsenic reduction measures, including other components of a
Plan, including outputs/deliverables and performance metrices (see example below in Table 5).

Table 5: Pollutant Reduction Measure Chart Example

Reduction           Outputs/Deliverables              Implementation           Performance Metric
Measure                                               Schedule
                                                      Begin Date   End Date
Installation of     a)Plan submittal to DEQ for       1/1/16       3/1/16      Reduce arsenic in discharge
treatment           review and approval                                        by 80%
technology
                    b) Contract awarded                            6/1/16

                    c) Build and install upgrade      9/1/16       6/1/17

                    d) Tested and fully                            9/1/17
                    operational
Chemical            a)Batch testing with              1/1/16       7/1/16      100% substitution of arsenic-
Substitution        alternative chemical to                                    containing chemical
                    confirm feasibility and product
                    quality

                    b) Secure contract with                        10/1/16
                    chemical supplier

                    c) Full production                             1/1/17

Standard            a) Treated wood is stored on      Immediate                Contain wood preservatives
Operating           drip pad for a minimum of 48                               onsite to minimize runoff to
Procedures:         hours prior to storage in other                            nearby waterways/ditches
Wood Treatment      areas of the site
Containment Plan
                    b) Cover storage area for         1/1/16       3/1/16
                    treated wood



5.0 Public Comment and DEQ Approval
The proposed Arsenic Reduction Plan must be included with the draft NPDES permit for public comment.
Following public comment and DEQ approval, the Plan will be incorporated into the discharger’s NPDES
permit. The DEQ permit writer has the primary responsibility to approve each Plan.


6.0 Renewal
The Arsenic Reduction Plan will be reviewed at each permit renewal. The permit writer will review each
reduction measure and evaluate progress in meeting the associated performance metric and determine
whether new measures are warranted, including reduction measures that were originally infeasible that
may now be feasible. The Plan or any revisions to the Plan are subject to public comment and DEQ
approval. If the Plan results in measurable reductions of arsenic, so that the discharge no longer
significantly increases (per OAR 340-041-0033(7)(c)(C)) arsenic contributions to surface water drinking
water source areas, then the Plan is no longer required. To confirm that the reduction measures established
in the earlier Plan(s) maintain low or unquantifiable arsenic levels, the permit writer will continue to
conduct the analysis required to meet this rule at each permit renewal. This analysis also includes permits
where previous analyses indicated a pollutant reduction plan was not required.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                              May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           16 16                                                  Page 16 of 32




7.0 Applicability to Other NPDES Permits
The requirements in the Arsenic Reduction Policy rule apply to industrial dischargers that receive
individual permits. However, the rule may be applicable to general permits or industrial stormwater
permits if these sources are likely to contribute arsenic to downstream drinking water sources. In these
cases, DEQ will evaluate options for reducing arsenic in the discharge during permit renewal or evaluation
of Stormwater Pollution Control Plans. This rule does not apply to Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
Systems (MS4), construction permits, or Water Pollution Control Facilities (WPCF). The following
sections describe how this rule applies to general permits and industrial stormwater permits.


7.1 General Permits
A general permit is a permit that covers facilities that have similar operations and types of discharge. In
order to apply for this kind of permit, the discharge must be able to meet all of the requirements and
effluent limitations that are relevant to that category of discharge. Generally speaking, these permits are
used to cover minor discharge sources or minor activities that will have a minimal effect on the
environment (OAR 340-045-0033(1) and (2)). There are nine categories of general permits found in
surface water drinking water source areas in Oregon and include such discharges as non-contact cooling
water, fish hatcheries, and log ponds. The total number of general permits in these areas is 265 based on
location information for dischargers provided in WQ SIS. None of these general permits require
monitoring for arsenic because these discharges are not known to add arsenic or discharge arsenic in
significant quantities. See Appendix D for the table and associated map of facilities with general permits
discharging to source water drinking water source areas. If DEQ determines that any particular category
of general permit could significantly add arsenic to downstream drinking water sources, DEQ may include
additional permit conditions at permit renewal.


7.2 Industrial Stormwater Permits
The NPDES stormwater program regulates stormwater discharges from three potential sources: MS4s,
construction activities, and industrial activities. The Arsenic Reduction Policy focuses on industrial
stormwater permits. DEQ issues two industrial stormwater permits in surface water drinking water source
areas: 1200A (sand & gravel mining) and 1200Z (specific SIC codes23). DEQ previously issued the
1300J permit covering discharges of oily stormwater; however, those permits were discontinued in 2006.
Instead, these permittees must apply for an individual permit or address their discharge in a different
stormwater permit. The 1300J permit did not require arsenic monitoring. The 1200COLS permit does not
apply to this rule because there are no drinking water intakes along the Columbia Slough.




23
 There are approximately110 different types of industrial sectors under the 1200Z stormwater permits that discharge to surface
water drinking water source areas. Some of these facilities include; airports, canned and frozen fruits and vegetables, fabricated
metal products, trucking, various wood products, refuse and sewerage systems, and scrap and waste materials.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                             May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           17 17                                                 Page 17 of 32


Based on location information for dischargers provided in WQ SIS, 464 industrial stormwater facilities
discharge to these drinking water source areas. See Appendix E for the table and map of industrial
stormwater facilities discharging to surface water drinking water source areas.

1200 A Permits
The 1200A sand and gravel stormwater permit was reissued in December 2012. The permit has
mandatory best management practices (BMP) requirements which are treated as narrative technology
based effluent limits in the permit. DEQ also included numeric effluent limits for certain categories of
facilities operating under the permit.24 Mining operations must also monitor pollutant benchmarks to
determine if their BMPs are effective. If a facility is not consistently achieving desired benchmarks or
numeric effluent limits, it must implement BMPs to reduce the pollutants in the discharge and hire a
professional engineer or certified engineering geologist to design the stormwater plan. Arsenic is not one
of the benchmarks in this permit, but if the facility’s receiving stream is impaired for arsenic on the 303(d)
list, the permit holder is required to monitor for arsenic two times per year for two years. If samples
exceed the arsenic reference concentration,25 the facility must determine the source of arsenic and take
corrective actions to reduce the pollutant in its discharge.

1200 Z Permits
The 1200Z was reissued on October 1, 2011, with further modifications finalized on March 28, 2012.
Similar to the 1200A permit, the permit has mandatory BMP requirements which are treated as narrative
technology based effluent limits in the permit. 1200Z facilities must monitor certain pollutant benchmarks
to determine if their BMPs are effective. Although arsenic is not one of the benchmarks, facilities must
monitor for arsenic two times a year if the receiving stream is 303(d) listed for arsenic. If samples exceed
the arsenic reference concentration, the facility must determine the source of arsenic and take corrective
actions to reduce the pollutant in its discharge.

Summary
Generally, the 1200A and 1200Z industrial stormwater permits focus on BMPs sufficient to capture
pollutants likely to be in its stormwater, unlike other industrial permits covering a wide range of processes,
materials, treatment technologies, etc. Although these permits may discharge some level of arsenic,
current knowledge suggests it is unlikely to be significant. For example, earth-disturbing activities
conducted under the 1200A permit may mobilize arsenic in areas where it is naturally present in the soils
in high concentrations. However, BMPs established for benchmark pollutants, such as total suspended
solids would likely also reduce arsenic that may be present in stormwater. Moreover, if monitoring
indicates that arsenic is present in concentrations that exceed reference concentrations, permittees are
required to take corrective actions and implement additional BMPs. Therefore, additional BMPs for
specific reduction of arsenic are likely not necessary in addition to those already required by the permits.
However, if future data or information suggests this is not the case, development of specific benchmarks
for arsenic and related revisions to the Stormwater Pollution Control Plan may be explored at the time of
permit renewal.



24
  Numeric effluent limits for pH will apply to construction sand and gravel and crushed stone operators; limits for both pH and
total suspended solids will apply to industrial sand operations.
25
     The reference concentration is based upon the human health criterion of 2.1 µg/L.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                        May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           18 18                                            Page 18 of 32



8.0 Applicability to Agriculture
The Arsenic Reduction Policy also applies to agricultural practices where pesticides, fertilizers, or soil
amendments containing arsenic are currently or have previously been applied (OAR 340-041-0033(7)(g)).
The following discussion describes current or former use of pesticides containing arsenic in Oregon, as
well as current agricultural practices to minimize the introduction of arsenic into waterways as a result of
erosion control practices. The Oregon DEQ has also developed a Toxics Reduction Strategy that DEQ
may leverage to reduce loadings of specific toxics, including arsenic, to streams and rivers. Generally, for
the purposes of this rule and supported by the discussion below, DEQ staff will not likely need to further
assess agricultural use of arsenic or review soil conservation practices that minimize erosion of arsenic to
waters of the State in order to implement this rule.

Use of Arsenical Pesticides
Organic forms of arsenic were historically used in various agricultural insecticides and poisons. For
example, lead hydrogen arsenate was a common insecticide used on fruit trees to combat gypsy and
codling moth infestations, but because of its toxicity and persistent residues on fruit, EPA banned all
insecticidal uses of lead arsenate in the U.S. in 1988. Lead arsenate was historically used in large
quantities in agricultural areas of the Willamette Basin.26 Consequently, despite EPA’s ban on this
pesticide, lead arsenate compounds may continue to persist in soils where lead arsenate was applied.27

The herbicides, MSMA (monosodium methyl arsenate), DSMA (disodium methyl arsenate), and CAMA
(calcium acid methanearsonate)—less toxic forms of organic arsenic—replaced the use of lead arsenate
and were registered for weed control on cotton, turf grass and lawns, and under trees, vines, and shrubs. In
September 2009 at the voluntary request of its registrants, EPA cancelled pesticide registration for these
pesticides (total of 77) with several exceptions28. Use of MSMA on sod farms, golf courses, and highway
rights-of-way is prohibited after December 31, 2013.

A search of Washington State University’s Pesticide Information Center Online (PICOL) database
indicated that there are only two current use pesticides containing arsenic compounds registered in
Oregon.29 These are arsenic acid and arsenic pentoxide, both used in wood treatment. Most likely these
pesticides are used for treatment of wood for industrial purposes, rather than residential. There does not
appear to be any current agricultural use of arsenical pesticides in Oregon.

26
  USGS. Hinkle, S.R., and Polette, D.J. Arsenic in Ground Water of the Willamette Basin, OR. Water-Resources Investigations
Report 98–4205 . 1999. See:
http://ir.library.oregonstate.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1957/5064/PB2002100743.pdf?sequence=1
27
   Peryea, Francis J. Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center, Washington State University, Wenatchee, Washington, USA
98801. Historical Use of Lead Arsenate Insecticides, Resulting Soil Contamination and Implications for Soil Remediation.
Proceedings 16th World Congress of Soil Science (CD Rom), Montpellier, France. 20-26 Aug. 1998. See:
http://soils.tfrec.wsu.edu/leadhistory.htm

28
  EPA. Organic Arsenicals; Product Cancellation Order and Amendments to Terminate Uses. Federal Register. September 30,
2009 (Volume 74, Number 188). Page 50187-50194. See: http://www.epa.gov/fedrgstr/EPA-PEST/2009/September/Day-
30/p23319.htm
29
     PICOL database. See http://cru66.cahe.wsu.edu/LabelTolerance.html
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                     May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           19 19                                         Page 19 of 32


Agricultural Water Quality Management Plans
The Oregon Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural Water Quality Management (AgWQM) Program is
responsible for developing and implementing agricultural pollution prevention and control programs to
protect the quality of Oregon's waters. There are currently 38 Agricultural Water Quality Management
Area Plans covering Oregon. Each plan has an accompanying administrative rule. The administrative
rules outline requirements for landowners to prevent and control water pollution from agricultural
activities and soil erosion. While the emphasis of the plans are on voluntary action by landowners to
control the factors affecting water quality, the Prevention and Control Measures in the area rules are
minimum standards that must be met on all agricultural or rural lands. Prevention and Control Measures
common to all management areas prohibit activities that cause pollution and require maintenance of
streamside vegetation. Some area rules also address locally important agricultural water quality issues,
such as upland erosion, irrigation, and nutrient management. Landowners who fail to address these
Prevention and Control Measures may be subject to enforcement procedures based upon the administrative
rules. For more information about the AgWQM Program or to access all the Area Plans and Rules, see
http://www.oregon.gov/ODA/NRD/Pages/water_quality_front.aspx.

DEQ’s Toxics Reduction Strategy
To address a broad array of toxic pollutants in Oregon, DEQ developed a Toxics Reduction Strategy. The
strategy includes 25 actions to reduce and assess toxics in Oregon. Although there are no actions at this
time in the Toxics Reduction Strategy that are specific to arsenic reduction, Action I-3 is relevant to
achieving the objectives of the Arsenic Reduction Policy:


      Action I-3: From Toxics Reduction Strategy

  Use existing rural planning and resource management programs to reduce loadings
  of Focus List toxics into Oregon waterbodies through natural resource agency
  collaboration.


This action is relevant to any Focus List chemical (which includes almost all toxic pollutants that exceed
water quality standards in Oregon, including arsenic) that could be found on rural lands, including heavy
metals and legacy pesticides. DEQ is prioritizing toxics reduction actions based on a number of criteria.
For details on the Toxics Reduction Strategy, see http://www.deq.state.or.us/toxics/. If DEQ determines
that there are major concerns regarding arsenic in fertilizers or pesticides/legacy pesticides, then the
strategy can be updated over time to reflect these needs.

Summary
Generally, most agricultural uses of arsenic have diminished and/or will further diminish as EPA
cancellations on several organic arsenic pesticides take effect. However, because of historical agricultural
use of arsenic, DEQ expects landowners in surface water drinking water source areas will employ or
continue to employ soil conservation practices in accordance with ODA’s Area Plans and Rules to
minimize migration of soil potentially containing arsenic compounds into nearby waterways. Further,
DEQ may update Action I-3 in the Toxics Reduction Strategy if DEQ determines that arsenic is migrating
to nearby waterways as a result of insufficient soil conservation practices.
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                      May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           20 20                           Page 20 of 32



Appendix A: Revisions History


       Revision                    Date                       Changes             Editor
Version 1.0                May 7, 2013               Initial Publication   Andrea Matzke
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                     May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           21 21                                           Page 21 of 32



Appendix B: Arsenic Reduction Policy Rule
 Language

Note: The final rule language below contains several typographical errors (see red strikethrough
in text below). The majority of these typos incorrectly reference the Arsenic Reduction Policy as
section 4, rather than section 7. These typos will be corrected as part of an anticipated rulemaking
for the aquatic life toxics criteria in 2013.

OAR 340-041-0033(7)


(7) Arsenic Reduction Policy: The inorganic arsenic criterion for the protection of human health from the
combined consumption of organisms and drinking water is 2.1 micrograms per liter. While this criterion is
protective of human health and more stringent than the federal maximum contaminant level (MCL) for
arsenic in drinking water, which is 10 micrograms per liter, it nonetheless is based on a higher risk level
than the Commission has used to establish other human health criteria. This higher risk level recognizes
that much of the risk is due to naturally high levels of inorganic arsenic in Oregon’s waterbodies. In order
to maintain the lowest human health risk from inorganic arsenic in drinking water, the Commission has
determined that it is appropriate to adopt the following policy to limit the human contribution to that risk.

        (a) The arsenic reduction policy established by this rule section does not become applicable for
        purposes of ORS chapter 468B or the federal Clean Water Act unless and until the numeric
        arsenic criteria established by this rule are approved by EPA pursuant to 40 CFR 131.21
        (4/27/2000).

        (b) It is the policy of the Commission that the addition of inorganic arsenic from new or existing
        anthropogenic sources to waters of the state within a surface water drinking water protection area
        be reduced the maximum amount feasible. The requirements of this rule section (OAR 340-041-
        0033(47)) apply to sources that discharge to surface waters of the state with an ambient inorganic
        arsenic concentration equal to or lower than the applicable numeric inorganic arsenic criteria for
        the protection of human health.

        (c) The following definitions apply to this section (OAR 340-041-0033(47)):

                (A) “Add inorganic arsenic” means to discharge a net mass of inorganic arsenic from a
                point source (the mass of inorganic arsenic discharged minus the mass of inorganic
                arsenic taken into the facility from a surface water source).

                (B) A “surface water drinking water protection area,” for the purpose of this section,
                means an area delineated as such by DEQ under the source water assessment program of
                the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. ¦ 300j 13. The areas are delineated for the
                purpose of protecting public or community drinking water supplies that use surface water
                sources. These delineations can be found at DEQ’s drinking water program website.

                (C) “Potential to significantly increase inorganic arsenic concentrations in the public
                drinking water supply source water” means:

                         (i) to increase the concentration of inorganic arsenic in the receiving water for a
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                       May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           22 22                                             Page 22 of 32


                        discharge by 10 percent or more after mixing with the harmonic mean flow of the
                        receiving water; or

                        (ii) as an alternative, if sufficient data are available, the discharge will increase the
                        concentration of inorganic arsenic in the surface water intake water of a public
                        water system by 0.021 micrograms per liter or more based on a mass balance
                        calculation.

(d) Following the effective date of this rule, applications for an individual NPDES permit or permit
renewal received from industrial dischargers located in a surface water drinking water protection area and
identified by DEQ as likely to add inorganic arsenic to the receiving water must include sufficient data to
enable DEQ to determine whether:

        (A) The discharge in fact adds inorganic arsenic; and

        (B) The discharge has the potential to significantly increase inorganic arsenic concentrations in the
        public drinking water supply source water.

(e) Where DEQ determines that both conditions in subsection (d) of this section (47) are true, the
industrial discharger must develop an inorganic arsenic reduction plan and propose all feasible measures to
reduce its inorganic arsenic loading to the receiving water. The proposed plan, including proposed
measures, monitoring and reporting requirements, and a schedule for those actions, will be described in the
fact sheet and incorporated into the source’s NPDES permit after public comment and DEQ review and
approval. In developing the plan, the source must:

        (A) Identify how much it can minimize its inorganic arsenic discharge through pollution
        prevention measures, process changes, wastewater treatment, alternative water supply (for
        groundwater users) or other possible pollution prevention and/or control measures;

        (B) Evaluate the costs, feasibility and environmental impacts of the potential inorganic arsenic
        reduction and control measures;

        (C) Estimate the predicted reduction in inorganic arsenic and the reduced human health risk
        expected to result from the control measures;

        (D) Propose specific inorganic arsenic reduction or control measures, if feasible, and an
        implementation schedule; and

        (E) Propose monitoring and reporting requirements to document progress in plan implementation
        and the inorganic arsenic load reductions.

(f) In order to implement this section, DEQ will develop the following information and guidance within
120 days of the effective date of this rule and periodically update it as warranted by new information:

        (A) A list of industrial sources or source categories, including industrial stormwater and sources
        covered by general permits, that are likely to add inorganic arsenic to surface waters of the State.

                (i) For industrial sources or source categories permitted under a general permit that have
                been identified by DEQ as likely sources of inorganic arsenic, DEQ will evaluate options
                for reducing inorganic arsenic during permit renewal or evaluation of Stormwater
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                   May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           23 23                                        Page 23 of 32


                Pollution Control Plans.

        (B) Quantitation limits for monitoring inorganic arsenic concentrations.

        (C) Information and guidance to assist sources in estimating, pursuant to paragraph (de)(C) of this
        section, the reduced human health risk expected to result from inorganic arsenic control measures
        based on the most current EPA risk assessment.

(g) It is the policy of the Commission that landowners engaged in agricultural or development practices on
land where pesticides, fertilizers, or soil amendments containing arsenic are currently being or have
previously been applied, implement conservation practices to minimize the erosion and runoff of inorganic
arsenic to waters of the State or to a location where such material could readily migrate into waters of the
State.

[ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.]

Stat. Auth.: ORS 468.020, 468B.030, 468B.035 & 468B.048
Stats. Implemented: ORS 468B.030, 468B.035 & 468B.048
Hist.: DEQ 17-2003, f. & cert. ef. 12-9-03; DEQ 3-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-28-04; DEQ 17-2010, f. & cert.
ef. 12-21-10; DEQ 8-2011, f. & cert. ef. 6-30-11; DEQ 10-2011, f. & cert. ef. 7-13-11
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                    May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           24 24                                         Page 24 of 32



Appendix C: List and Map of Industrial
 Dischargers to Surface Water Drinking
 Water Source Areas

The list of facilities in the following table represent individual industrial NPDES permits located within
surface water drinking water source areas. Permit locations are based on latitude and longitude recorded
in DEQ’s SIS database. This list is current as of August 2012. Although DEQ intends to update this list
periodically, permit writers should confirm whether or not this rule pertains to any new or renewing
industrial permit. The drinking water program staff at DEQ headquarters (see:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/dwp/contacts.htm) can assist permit writers in determining if a NPDES
industrial facility discharges to a drinking water source area. Note that “Eastside PWSs” on the
accompanying map refer to Eastside Public Water Systems.

No.   Legal Name             Major/   Facility        City          Receiving      Downstream Public
      (Common Name)          Minor    Type                          Stream         Water System
1     Cascade Pacific        Major    Pulp Mills      Halsey        Willamette     Adair Village Water
      Pulp, LLC                                                     River          System
2     Dyno Nobel Inc.        Major    Nitrogenous     St. Helens    Columbia       Rainier Water
                                      Fertilizers                   River          Department
3     Georgia-Pacific        Major    Paper           Halsey        Willamette     Adair Village Water
      Consumer Products               Mills(No                      River          System
      LP Limited                      Building
      Partnership (Halsey             Paper)
      Mill)
4     International Paper    Major    Pulp Mills      Springfield   McKenzie       Eugene Water & Electric
      Company                                                       River          Board
      (Springfield Paper
      Mill)
5     International Paper    Major    Paper           Albany        Willamette     City of Wilsonville
      Company (Albany                 Mills(No                      River
      Paper Mill) Out Of              Building
      Business as of Aug.             Paper)
      2012
6     Oregon Metallurgic,    Major    Primary Smelt   Albany        Oak Creek      City of Albany
      LLC (ATI Albany                 Nonferrous
      Operations)                     Metal
7     Port of St. Helens     Major    Electric        Clatskanie    Columbia       PGE Beaver Generating
      (Port of St. Helens             Services                      River          Station
      Industrial Outfall)
8     SP Newsprint Co.,      Major    Paper           Newberg       Willamette     City of Wilsonville
      LLC                             Mills(No                      River
                                      Building
                                      Paper)
9     TDY Industries, LLC    Major    Primary Smelt   Albany        Truax Creek    City of Wilsonville
      (Wah Chang)                     Nonferrous
                                      Metal
10    Allweather Wood,       Minor    Wood            White City    Rogue River    City of Gold Hill
      LLC                             Preserving

11    Amalgamated Sugar      Minor    Beet Sugar      Nyssa         Snake River    City of Ontario
      Company LLC, The
12    Arclin U.S.A. LLC      Minor    Plastics        Springfield   Patterson      Pope & Talbot Inc.
                                      Materials,                    Slough
                                      Synthetics
13    Arden Development,     Minor    Ferroalloy      Riddle        Crawford       City of Riddle
      Inc. (Green Diamond             Ores (No                      Creek
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                      May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           25 25                                               Page 25 of 32


No.   Legal Name            Major/   Facility        City          Receiving       Downstream Public
      (Common Name)         Minor    Type                          Stream          Water System
      Sand Products)                 Vanadium)
14    Bob Mcayeal           Minor    Coin-Op         Eugene        Willamette      City of Monroe
      (Mcayeals Wardrobe             Laundries &                   River
      Cleaners Air                   Cleaners
      Stripper)
15    Boise Cascade         Minor    Softwood        Medford       Bear Creek      City of Gold Hill
      Wood Products,                 Veneer And
      L.L.C.                         Plywood
16    Cascade Steel         Minor    Blast           McMinnville   South Yamhill   City of Wilsonville
      Rolling Mills, Inc.            Furnaces &                    River
                                     Steel Mills
17    Cascade Wood          Minor    Millwork        White City    Military        Medford Water
      Products, Inc.                                               Slough          Commission
18    Conrad Wood           Minor    Wood            Rainier       Columbia        PGE Beaver Generating
      Preserving Co.                 Preserving                    River           Station
19    Douglas County        Minor    Refuse          Roseburg      South           City of Elkton
      Public Works                   Systems                       Umpqua
      Department                                                   River
      (Roseburg Landfill
      Leachate Treatment
      System)
20    Eugene Water &        Minor    Electric        Eugene        McKenzie        Eugene Water & Electric
      Electric Board                 Services                      River           Board
21    Evanite Fiber         Minor    Other Wood      Corvallis     Willamette      Adair Village Water
      Corporation                    Products                      River           System
22    Flakeboard America    Minor    Reconstituted   Albany        Murder Creek    City of Wilsonville
      Limited (Duraflake)            Wood
                                     Products
23    Foster Poultry        Minor    Poultry         Creswell      Camas Swale     Pope & Talbot Inc.
      Farms, Inc.                    Slaughtering                  Creek
24    Frank Lumber Co.,     Minor    Sawmills And    Lyons         North           Lyons Mehama Water
      Inc.                           Planing Mills                 Santiam River   District
25    Georgia-Pacific       Minor    Plastics        Albany        Murder Creek    City of Wilsonville
      Chemicals LLC (GP              Materials,
      Millersburg Resin              Synthetics
      Plant)
26    Georgia-Pacific       Minor    Plastics        Eugene        Amazon          City of Monroe
      Chemicals LLC                  Materials,                    Creek
                                     Synthetics
27    Guernsey Stone        Minor    Construction    Salem         Mill Creek      City of Wilsonville
      Company                        Sand And
      (Lancaster Ready               Gravel
      Mix)
28    Hoover Treated        Minor    Other           Winston       South           Roberts Creek Water
      Wood Products, Inc.            Chemical                      Umpqua          District
                                     Preparations                  River
29    Hull-Oakes Lumber     Minor    Sawmills And    Monroe        Oliver Creek    Adair Village Water
      Co.                            Planing Mills                                 System
30    J.H. Baxter & Co.,    Minor    Wood            Eugene        Amazon          City of Monroe
      Inc.                           Preserving                    Diversion
                                                                   Canal
31    Jasper Wood           Minor    Wood            Jasper        Middle Fork     Springfield Utility Board
      Products, LLC                  Preserving                    Willamette
                                                                   River
32    Kingsford             Minor    Other Wood      Springfield   Patterson       Pope & Talbot Inc.
      Manufacturing                  Products                      Slough
      Company
33    Lane County -         Minor    Refuse          Eugene        Camas Swale     Pope & Talbot Inc.
      Waste Management               Systems                       Creek
      Division (Short
      Mountain Landfill)
34    McFarland Cascade     Minor    Wood            Eugene        Unknown         City of Monroe
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                         May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           26 26                                              Page 26 of 32


No.   Legal Name             Major/   Facility          City          Receiving       Downstream Public
      (Common Name)          Minor    Type                            Stream          Water System
      Pole & Lumber                   Preserving
      Company
35    Norpac Foods, Inc.     Minor    Frozen            Stayton       Mill Creek      City of Wilsonville
                                      Fruits,Juice,V
                                      egetables
36    Oregon Department      Minor    Correctional      Salem         Mill Creek      City of Wilsonville
      Of Corrections                  Institutions
      (Oregon State
      Penitentiary)
37    ODFW (Leaburg          Minor    Operating         Leaburg       McKenzie        Eugene Water & Electric
      Hatchery)                       Fish Hatchery                   River           Board
38    ODFW (Mckenzie         Minor    Operating         Leaburg       McKenzie        Eugene Water & Electric
      River Hatchery)                 Fish Hatchery                   River           Board
39    ODFW (Clackamas        Minor    Operating         Estacada      Clackamas       Clackamas River Water -
      River Hatchery)                 Fish Hatchery                   River           Clackamas
40    ODFW (Marion           Minor    Operating         Idanha        Horn Creek      City of Gates
      Forks Hatchery)                 Fish Hatchery
41    Oregon System Of       Minor    Testing           Albany        Calapooia       City of Wilsonville
      Higher Education                Laboratories                    River
      (OSU)
42    Oregon System Of       Minor    Colleges &        Corvallis     Willamette      Adair Village Water
      Higher Education                Universities                    River           System
      (OSU - Microbiology,
      Salmon Disease
      Laboratory)
43    Oregon System Of       Minor    Colleges &        Eugene        Willamette      Pope & Talbot Inc.
      Higher Education (U             Universities                    River
      of O - Central Heat
      Plant)
44    Owyhee Ditch           Minor    Irrigation        Ontario       Owyhee River    City of Ontario
      Company                         Systems
45    Owyhee Irrigation      Minor    Irrigation        Nyssa         Malheur River   City of Ontario
      District                        Systems
46    Pacific Wood           Minor    Wood              Sheridan      South Yamhill   City of Sheridan
      Preserving of                   Preserving                      River
      Oregon, Inc.
47    Portland General       Minor    Electric          Clatskanie    Columbia        PGE Beaver Generating
      Electric Company                Services                        River           Station
      (PGE Beaver)
48    Precision Drying       Minor    Wood              Rainier       Rinearson       PGE Beaver Generating
      Services Inc.                   Preserving                      Slough          Station
49    Recology Valley        Minor    Refuse            Ashland       Jeffery Creek   City of Gold Hill
      View Inc. (Valley               Systems
      View Landfill)
50    Rosboro, LLC           Minor    Softwood          Springfield   Patterson       Pope & Talbot Inc.
                                      Veneer And                      Slough
                                      Plywood
51    Royal Pacific          Minor    Wood              McMinnville   North Yamhill   City of Wilsonville
      Industries, Inc.                Preserving                      River
52    Sanders Wood           Minor    Sawmills And      Liberal       Molalla River   Canby Utility
      Products, Inc. (RSG             Planing Mills
      Forest Products -
      Liberal)
53    Seneca Sawmill         Minor    Sawmills And      Eugene        Unknown         City of Monroe
      Company                         Planing Mills
54    Stimson Lumber         Minor    Sawmills And      Gaston        Scoggins        Hillsboro & JWC Plant
      Company                         Planing Mills                   Creek
55    Sunstone Circuits,     Minor    Printed Circuit   Mulino        Milk Creek      Canby Utility
      LLC                             Boards
56    USDOI; Fish &          Minor    Operating         Estacada      Eagle Creek     Clackamas River Water -
      Wildlife Service                Fish Hatchery                                   Clackamas
      (Eagle Creek
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                                May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           27 27                                     Page 27 of 32


No.   Legal Name               Major/   Facility     City        Receiving     Downstream Public
      (Common Name)            Minor    Type                     Stream        Water System
      National Fish
      Hatchery)
57    Valley Landfills, Inc.   Minor    Refuse       Corvallis   Unknown       City of Wilsonville
      (Coffin Butte                     Systems
      Landfill)
58    Weyerhaeuser NR          Minor    Softwood     Foster      Wiley Creek   City of Sweet Home
      Company                           Veneer And
      (Engineered Lumber                Plywood
      Products - Foster)
59    Weyerhaeuser NR          Minor    Softwood     Cottage     Coast Fork    City of Creswell
      Company (Cottage                  Veneer And   Grove       Willamette
      Grove Lumber)                     Plywood                  River
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas   May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           28 28        Page 28 of 32
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                         May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           29 29                              Page 29 of 32




Appendix D: Summary List and Map of
 General Permit Dischargers to Surface
 Water Drinking Water Source Areas

Note that “Eastside PWSs” on the accompanying map refer to Eastside Public Water Systems.


No.   General Permit         Discharge Description                      Total    Arsenic
      Category                                                          Number   Monitoring
                                                                                 Required?
1     100J                   non-contact cooling water                    39     No
2     200J                   treatment of drinking water, such as         43     No
                             filter backwash and reservoir
                             cleaning
3     300J                   fish hatcheries                               6     No
4     400J                   log ponds                                    15     No
5     500J                   boiler blowdown                               6     No
6     700PM                  suction dredges and non-motorized           115     No
                             instream devices used in placer
                             mining for precious metals.
7     900J                   seafood processing and stormwater             1     No
                             from seafood processing
8     1500A                  petroleum hydrocarbon cleanup                 7     No
                             from groundwater or surface water
9     1700A                  fixed and mobile washwater                   33     No
                             operations
TOTAL                                                                    265
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas   May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           30 30        Page 30 of 32
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas                            May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           31 31                                 Page 31 of 32



Appendix E: Summary List and Map of
 Industrial Stormwater Permit Dischargers
 to Surface Water Drinking Water Source
 Areas

Note that “Eastside PWSs” on the accompanying map refer to Eastside Public Water Systems.

No.   Industrial             Stormwater Description                     Total    Arsenic
      Stormwater Permit                                                 Number   Monitoring
      Category                                                                   Required?
1     1200A                  sand and gravel mining, rock                 116    No—unless
                             quarries, concrete batch and hot mix                receiving
                             asphalt operations (jointly                         stream listed
                             administered by the Oregon                          for arsenic
                             Department of Geology and Mineral
                             Industries)
2     1200Z                  specific SIC codes (includes 110             346    No—unless
                             industrial sectors)                                 receiving
                                                                                 stream listed
                                                                                 for arsenic
3     1300J                  oily stormwater and oil & water                2    No
                             separators—permit was
                             discontinued in 2006
TOTAL                                                                     464
Arsenic Reduction Policy in Surface Water Drinking Water Source Areas   May 7, 2013
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
Version 1.0
                                                           32 32        Page 32 of 32
