              Monitoring Background Groundwater Quality
    Internal Management Directive for Regulating Permitted
              Operations under OAR 340-040-0030

                                          Summary


Purpose        This document provides direction to Department of Environmental Quality
               (DEQ) staff reviewing background groundwater quality monitoring information
               submitted by a permitted source or permit applicant as required by OAR 340-
               040-0030.


Scope          The information provided in this document is meant to guide DEQ in applying
               existing statutes and rules related to groundwater quality protection at permitted
               operations. The Internal Management Directive does not create rights or
               obligations on the part of the public or regulated entities.


Applicability This Internal Management Directive will be used by DEQ staff conducting
              groundwater reviews in cases where monitoring background groundwater quality
              is required under OAR 340-040-0030. This may include review for:

               •   New or renewal NPDES permits;
               •   New or renewal WPCF permits;
               •   New or renewal On-Site Sewage Disposal permits;
               •   New or renewal Solid Waste Disposal permits;
               •   New or renewal Hazardous Waste Disposal permits; and
               •   Any other point source permitted operation or activity that requires
                   monitoring of background ground water quality conditions under OAR 340-
                   040.

               This document may be used by permittees and permit applicants in order to
               collect and prepare information for submittal to DEQ.


Contact for    For questions concerning this guidance, contact Karla Urbanowicz (503-229-
questions      6099) Groundwater Program Coordinator in the Land Application and Licensing
               Section, Water Quality Division.




7/14/03 KLU                                                                             Page 1 of 7
                                        Introduction


What is        Background water quality is defined in the Groundwater Quality Protection
background     rules as “… the quality of water immediately upgradient from a current or
water quality? potential source of pollution that is unaffected by the source”. (OAR 340-40-
               0010(1))

                 Background groundwater quality is the baseline quality of groundwater in the
                 absence of pollutants added by source facility operations. A representative
                 measure of this baseline can usually be obtained at the upgradient boundary of a
                 facility. In hydrogeologic terms, an upgradient location is related to the
                 direction of groundwater movement and is outside the area of potential adverse
                 impacts from facility operations. Groundwater generally moves in the
                 subsurface from outside the facility boundaries (“upgradient”), flows beneath
                 the area of operations, and eventually flows away from the site
                 (“downgradient”). Groundwater outside and upgradient of the facility is
                 generally presumed to be unaffected by the source. Groundwater beneath and
                 downgradient from the area of facility operations is most likely to be affected
                 by pollutant discharges. Once pollutants affect groundwater, the contaminants
                 usually move in the direction of groundwater flow downgradient and away from
                 area of immediate impact.


What are the     For permitted sources where there is a likely adverse groundwater quality
requirements     impact, the permittee is required by rule to develop a groundwater quality
for              protection program. (OAR 340-040-0030(2)) This includes a plan for
background       groundwater monitoring for the uppermost aquifer and any other aquifer
groundwater      potentially affected by operations at the facility.
monitoring at
permitted        The plan must provide a way to determine the rate and direction of groundwater
facilities?      flow and monitor groundwater quality immediately upgradient and
                 downgradient from the waste management area, and also locate background
                 monitoring points, detection monitoring points, and groundwater quality
                 compliance points.

                 The permittee must monitor “… the background water quality of the uppermost
                 aquifer. The background monitoring point(s) shall be located where water
                 quality is unaffected by the facility operations.” (OAR 340-40-0030(2)(c))

                 As discussed in the following sections, monitoring must characterize the
                 groundwater upgradient and unaffected by the facility. A monitoring point
                 physically located upgradient of the facility is preferred, but in some
                 circumstances other methods can be used to obtain information that accurately
                 represents groundwater quality upgradient and unaffected by the facility.


7/14/03 KLU                                                                            Page 2 of 7
What             The Environmental Quality Commission (EQC) adopted in rule a policy to
groundwater      prevent groundwater pollution and control waste discharges to groundwater so
protection       the highest possible water quality is maintained. (OAR 340-040-0020(2)) The
requirements     EQC also adopted a general policy to protect all groundwater from pollution
apply?           that could impair the existing or potential beneficial uses for which the natural
                 water quality of the groundwater is adequate and to maintain existing high
                 quality groundwater. (OAR 340-040-0020(3)) Rules adopted by EQC (OAR
                 340-040-0030) direct the Department to implement these policies for permitted
                 sources through groundwater quality protection requirements specified in
                 facility permits.


How does         DEQ staff review information submitted by permitted sources on the natural
DEQ              background quality of groundwater in the vicinity of a permitted facility.
implement        Information must be sufficient to determine the groundwater quality in the
these            absence of any impacts from activities that have occurred or could in the future
requirements?    occur at a permitted facility. DEQ will use this information to establish permit
                 requirements such as concentration limits at compliance points.

                 A number of methods can be used by permittees to select points to monitor
                 groundwater quality and collect and analyze data that will be reviewed by DEQ.
                 Examples of various methods and their application are given below.


                   Monitoring Background Groundwater Quality


Methods to  Some methods to monitor, collect, and evaluate information on background
monitor     groundwater quality include:
background
groundwater    • Locating monitoring points upgradient to the facility
quality        • Locating monitoring points crossgradient and adjacent to a facility,
               • Locating monitoring points downgradient from a site prior to any facility
                  waste discharges,
               • Locating other monitoring points, based on specific site hydrogeology,
               • Conducting an interwell data analysis to compare data collected at
                  upgradient or crossgradient monitoring points to downgradient monitoring
                  points,
               • Conducting an intrawell data analysis to evaluate data collected at a
                  single downgradient monitoring point before and after facility or waste
                  discharge operations have begun.

                DEQ staff and permittees should consult available and current technical reference
                and guidance documents for specific details on appropriate monitoring protocols,
                data evaluation methods, and statistical analyses that can be used with the above
                approaches.

7/14/03 KLU                                                                             Page 3 of 7
              This monitoring information provides a baseline measure of groundwater quality
              unaffected by facility operations. The baseline can be established for a point
              physically located upgradient to the facility, or at a location that is representative
              of groundwater quality upgradient to the facility. The baseline may be
              established at a point in time prior to facility operations begin, or may be an
              ongoing measure of background groundwater quality during the operation of a
              facility.


What          There are situations when it is technically advisable to use one method versus
method is     another to monitor background groundwater quality.
acceptable?
              The appropriate methodology should be chosen based on the site geology and
              groundwater flow conditions, potential facility impacts on groundwater, and the
              ability to adequately monitor the uppermost aquifer or any aquifer that could be
              affected.

              It is generally preferable to use a monitoring point that is physically located
              upgradient to a facility and collect information during the facility operations.

              However, geology and groundwater flow systems are not always simple and
              straightforward. At some sites, groundwater monitoring upgradient and
              downgradient of a facility will provide adequate information to assess and
              monitor current and potential impacts from pollutant discharges. In some
              complex geologic and groundwater settings, this information may not be
              adequate or technically appropriate to determine the effects of the facility on
              groundwater quality. Other information may be required to adequately
              characterize baseline groundwater quality and assess the impacts of the facility on
              the uppermost aquifer or another aquifer that may be potentially impacted. The
              following examples illustrate the application of several methods.


                                           Examples


Using          At some sites, background groundwater quality can be monitored at points
upgradient     physically located upgradient of current or potential facility operation areas.
monitoring     The purpose of upgradient monitoring is to provide information on the quality of
points         groundwater before it moves beneath a waste management area. Information
               from an upgradient monitoring point can be used to set permit-specific
               concentration limits. Upgradient monitoring can also indicate changes in off-
               site groundwater quality, or help evaluate changes in groundwater quality at
               facility compliance points.

               The following factors should be considered by DEQ hydrogeologists reviewing
               information from upgradient monitoring points to determine the appropriate use

7/14/03 KLU                                                                               Page 4 of 7
                of the monitoring data:

                   •   Hydrostratigraphic zone screened by the upgradient monitoring point;
                   •   Hydrostratigraphic zone screened by detection monitoring points and
                       compliance points;
                   •   Groundwater flow systems, particular hydrogeologic divides or aquifer
                       boundaries;
                   •   Spatial distribution of upgradient monitoring points in relation to facility
                       operations, and detection and compliance monitoring points
                   •   Potential for pollutants to migrate upgradient of waste management areas
                       (i.e., landfill gas or vapor phase migration, upgradient groundwater
                       dispersion, seasonal groundwater flow changes).

                Data collected from upgradient monitoring points may be evaluated using
                standard statistical analyses such as calculating upper tolerance limits to
                determine permit-specific concentration limits, or comparison between
                upgradient and downgradient points for statistically significant differences.


Using           Crossgradient monitoring points are located at points adjacent to facility
crossgradient   operations and monitor groundwater moving alongside rather than under a site.
monitoring      In some cases, a crossgradient monitoring point may be used to monitor
points          background groundwater quality if the permittee can demonstrate that such a
                location will not be affected by facility operations and is representative of the
                potentially impacted aquifers upgradient and under the facility. This
                demonstration should be based on a thorough understanding of area geology and
                the groundwater flow system.

                For instance, a facility may be located at the edge of a valley. Information about
                the site geology and hydrogeology may show that the uppermost aquifer under
                the facility is not present outside the site boundary in the upgradient direction.
                In this case, a background monitoring point installed in the upgradient direction
                would not monitor the same groundwater zone present under the facility.
                Monitoring in the upgradient direction would not be appropriate to determine the
                baseline background groundwater quality and serve as a point of comparison to
                monitor potential impacts from the facility. In this instance, a monitoring point
                located cross gradient to the facility in the same groundwater zone present under
                the area of operations would provide better information on the quality of
                groundwater unaffected by facility operations.


Using           Monitoring at points located downgradient from a future waste management
downgradient    operation can provide information on groundwater quality prior to facility
monitoring      operations. This information can be used to represent upgradient background
points          groundwater quality and in some cases can be used to set permit-specific
                concentration limits. A statistically sufficient amount of groundwater quality
                information must be collected prior to facility operations. The permittee must

7/14/03 KLU                                                                             Page 5 of 7
                demonstrate that the information represents groundwater quality that is
                unaffected by facility operations.


Intrawell       The evaluation of groundwater quality data from a single monitoring point can
data            be done using intrawell analytical techniques. To use this type of analysis, the
evaluation      permittee must demonstrate that the groundwater quality data has not been
                impacted by facility operations. Statistical methods such as the analysis of
                variance (ANOVA) may be an appropriate data evaluation technique. If
                groundwater has been affected by facility operations at any point in time, this
                approach cannot be used to monitor background groundwater quality.

                Using an intrawell data evaluation may provide a sensitive method to determine
                if a contaminant release has occurred. This data evaluation method may
                eliminate uncertainty created by spatial variability between upgradient and
                downgradient monitoring points. By using data collected from one monitoring
                point and comparing it to data collected over time at that same monitoring point,
                spatial variability can be eliminated. Seasonal variations in groundwater quality
                may still be a factor to be evaluated.


                       Conclusion to Internal Management Directive


Implementing DEQ staff review information submitted by permitted sources on the
rule         background quality of groundwater in the vicinity of a permitted facility. This
requirements information should be sufficient to determine the groundwater quality in the
             absence of any impacts from activities that have occurred or could in the future
             occur at a permitted facility. Information collected upgradient of a facility or
             equivalently representing the groundwater quality upgradient of a facility will be
             used by DEQ staff for setting and implementing permit requirements.

                A number of methods can be used by permittees to select points to monitor
                groundwater quality and collect and analyze data that will be reviewed by DEQ.
                The appropriate methodology should be chosen based on the site geology and
                groundwater flow conditions, potential facility impacts on groundwater, and the
                ability to adequately monitor the uppermost aquifer or any aquifer that could be
                affected. It is generally preferable to use a monitoring point that is physically
                located upgradient to a facility and collect information during the facility
                operations. In situations when it is technically advisable to use another method,
                the appropriate method should be chosen based on site geology and groundwater
                flow conditions, potential facility impacts on groundwater, and the ability to
                adequately monitor the uppermost aquifer or any aquifer that could be affected.




7/14/03 KLU                                                                            Page 6 of 7
