          UST Technical Assistance (TA) Inspection Program
                      Internal Management Directive on Procedures
                                                     Effective April 15, 2011
1. Introduction

Since the passage of the December 1998 upgrade, 3,794 significant operational compliance
(SOC) inspections have been completed by DEQ and EPA. At this point, most facilities with
active tanks will have been inspected at least twice since the 1998 upgrade deadline. Currently
there are approximately 1780 UST facilities and the number is slowly declining over time.

The focus of the SOC inspections has been to verify the presence of all required pollution
prevention and release detection equipment; the performance of all required daily, monthly,
yearly or periodic corrosion protection or release detection monitoring and testing; the repair of
failing equipment, the reporting and investigation of suspected releases and the cleanup of
contamination.

Since the inception of an expedited enforcement program in February 2004 through December
2009, DEQ has cited 1,031 violations including 214 related to missing or faulty equipment, 649
for failure to perform release detection monitoring or equipment testing and 168 for other
violations such as failure to notify, failing to have a trained operator, failing to document
financial responsibility, etc. DEQ is expecting to see an overall decrease in the number of
violations, most specifically reductions in equipment violations and release detection monitoring
and equipment testing violations.

Both DEQ and EPA require facilities to designate Class A, B and C operators. Class A operators
are often the tank owners and/or environmental mangers. Class B operators are those persons
that are running the facilities on a day-to-day basis, the permittees and operators. Class C
operators are persons most commonly working at a facility and dispensing product. DEQ
requires in-depth training of Class A and B operators. Class C operators must be trained before
dispensing motor fuels or responding to emergencies involving motor fuels.

DEQ has noted that there is more than a 10 percent a year turnover of permittees and tank
owners. Although required by rule to get training on the UST requirements, DEQ believes it is
also important that these first-time permittees and tank owners have an opportunity to meet DEQ
and establish a positive working relationship with DEQ’s UST inspectors.

To foster an early working relationship, after April 15, 2011 DEQ is offering a technical
assistance (TA) inspection program for first-time permittees and tank owners which will allow
certain violations to be addressed by a Technical Assistance Inspection Warning Letter with
Opportunity to Correction (WL). This IMD sets forth the procedures for this program. What
violations can be addressed by use of a WL are set forth in Appendix L – UST Violation
Guidance.




Rreiter/headquarters documents/tech assist comp inspec final 4-15-11      Page 1 of 5   April 2011
2. Purpose of IMD
This directive is solely intended to guide inspectors when documenting violations discovered
during an UST inspection. This IMD document incorporates the Appendix L – UST Violation
Guidance and UST Facility Inspection and Compliance Guidance which includes a table of UST
compliance violations, describes inspection procedures, and lists UST violations, rule citations,
field penalty amounts and actions necessary for permittees to correct violations. It also identifies
when staff must refer to the Office of Compliance and Enforcement (OCE) for formal
enforcement.

This directive does not create any rights, duties, obligations, or defenses, implied or otherwise, in
third parties. It is not intended for use in pleading, at hearing, or at trial. It does not constitute
rulemaking by the Environmental Quality Commission and may not be relied upon to create a
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by law or in equity, by any person. DEQ
may take action which varies from this directive.

3. Eligibility Criteria

If the UST facility meets the following criteria, a TA inspection can be scheduled at the facility.
Inspectors must refer to Appendix L – UST Violation Guidance to determine what the appropriate
enforcement response is for a violation discovered during a TA inspection. Discovered
violations may receive either a WL, a field citation or a formal enforcement action.

a. Both the tank owner and permittee have not previously owned or operated an UST facility in
Oregon. For simplicity in reading this IMD, the term “permittee” is understood to mean both
permittee and tank owner. A first-time permittee owning or operating more than one facility can
only request one TA inspection.

b. The permittee must have submitted a timely and complete new installation application form
(due 30 days before construction starts) or a change in permittee and tank owner permit
modification application form (due within 60 days of a change in permittee and tank owner).

c. The permittee must be in compliance with the financial responsibility requirements for USTs.

d. The permittee must request a TA inspection by submitting the First-Time Permittee or Tank
Owner Request for an UST Technical Assistance (TA) Inspection form to DEQ within 90 days of
being issued its operating certificate.

e. Prior to conducting the inspection, the permittee must have designated the facility’s Class A
and B operators pursuant to OAR 340-150-0210 and the operators must have completed operator
training pursuant to one of the training options listed in OAR 340-150-0210 (5). This technical
assistance inspection program is not a substitute for operator training, rather it is intended to
complement and reinforce what is learned during Class A and B operator training.

f. The permittee has owned or operated the facility for less than 6 months at the time of the
inspection.


Rreiter/headquarters documents/tech assist comp inspec final 4-15-11   Page 2 of 5       April 2011
g. Some violations are not eligible for a WL regardless of the permittee meeting the other
eligibility requirements (see Appendix L of the Enforcement Guidance)

h. No more than one first-time permittee TA inspection will be conducted at any facility as long
as the permittee and/or tank owner remain the same for the facility.

4. TA Inspection Process

UST HQ Staff Responsibilities

Verifying Eligibility
Whenever UST HQ staff receive either a new installation or modification application, HQ staff
will determine if the permittee meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Section 3, paragraphs a, b
and c. If the applicant meets the eligibility criteria, HQ staff will include, with the issued
operating certificate, Request for an UST Technical Assistance (TA) Inspection form. The form
is designed to outline the objectives of a TA inspection and the consequences of a TA inspection.

UST Inspectors Responsibilities

Verifying Eligibility and Scheduling the Inspection
Within 30 days of receiving a request for a TA inspection, the appropriate UST inspector will
schedule the inspection for a time when the permittee and Class A or B operators can be
available to participate in the inspection. In no case will an inspection be scheduled more than 6
months after the tank owner acquired ownership or the permittee became the permittee or more
than 60 days after the receipt of a TA inspection request. If the UST inspector is unable to
timely schedule the inspection, the UST inspector will send a letter to the permittee informing
them they are no longer eligible for a TA inspection.

Prior to conducting the inspection, the UST inspector must receive verification that the Class A
and B operators have completed the required training. If the training has not been completed, the
UST inspector will send a letter to the permittee informing them they are not eligible for a TA
inspection.

UST inspector must schedule a TA inspection for a date and time when the permittee, tank
owner or Class A or B operators are available to participate in the inspection.

TA inspections will be confirmed by letter. The confirmation letter will also review the ground
rules associated with a TA inspection. The letter will inform the permittee what records must be
available to review. DEQ will also inform the permittee what access to UST system components
will be expected. The UST inspector will provide an estimate of the time that it will take to
complete a TA inspection.

Conducting the Inspection
TA inspections will take place at the UST facility. The permittee or the tank owner must be
present for the TA inspection. It is DEQ’s preference that the facility’s Class A and/or B


Rreiter/headquarters documents/tech assist comp inspec final 4-15-11   Page 3 of 5       April 2011
operator also be present during the TA inspection. The permittee, tank owner and/or Class A
and/or B operator must actively participate in the inspection. Should at anytime during the TA
inspection the permittee, tank owner and/or Class A or B operator fail to participate, the UST
inspector should conclude the inspection and record the data from the TA inspection into the
UST compliance database as an incomplete inspection.

TA inspections will cover all the regulatory areas that a normal SOC compliance inspection
would cover. UST inspectors must follow all the same procedures for conducting and recording
a TA inspection as they would for an SOC inspection.

Following the inspection, the UST inspector will conduct a post-inspection briefing at the
facility. The briefing will cover the importance of operating and maintaining the facility’s
pollution prevention and release detection equipment; will review future equipment calibration,
testing and monitoring schedules; and will emphasize the importance of reporting suspected
releases and initiating timely suspected release investigations and cleanups.

The UST inspector will also inform the permittee of any violations using the WL form. The UST
inspector will set a corrective action schedule for each violation in accordance with the UST
Field Citation Guidance document. The UST inspector will remind the permittee that if the
violations cannot be corrected in the time provided, it is the permittee’s responsibility to contact
the UST inspector to discuss a revised corrective action schedule. The UST inspector will also
inform the permittee that if the violations are not corrected, the facility will be subject to an
enforcement action.

Copies of the WL must be distributed to permittee, Office of Compliance and Enforcement and
UST Headquarters.

For facilities where no UST violations are noted during a TA inspection, UST inspectors will
send a letter confirming that a TA inspection was completed and no violations were observed.
(Use a letter similar to that used for facilities that pass an SOC inspection).

Follow-up for Compliance
Any TA inspection will be recorded in the UST compliance database as a TA inspection.

Inspectors will help permittees, as necessary, to correct violations. However, inspectors should
also refer permittees to licensed service providers for assistance where appropriate.

UST inspectors must follow-up on any corrective action schedules established in a WL.
Inspectors may grant one extension of the compliance due date (corrective action period) for
good cause (e.g., equipment on order, but will not arrive within time period). A request for a
second extension should generally be denied, but if appropriate, the extension must be approved
by the regional manager. Inspectors will record any compliance date extensions in the UST
Inspection database.




Rreiter/headquarters documents/tech assist comp inspec final 4-15-11   Page 4 of 5      April 2011
If the permittee fails to conduct the corrective action within the established schedule, the UST
inspector must send a PEN informing the permittee that the file is now being referred to OCE for
formal enforcement and complete a enforcement referral.

If corrective action is timely taken, the UST inspector will send a letter to the permittee noting
that compliance has been achieved.

DEQ is committed to inspecting all active UST facilities every three years. If a first-time
permittee requests a TA inspection, DEQ will not schedule an SOC compliance inspection until
the TA inspection process is completed. At any other time, DEQ may schedule an SOC
inspection.

5. Other Violations

Should UST inspectors observe and document other violations outside the scope of Appendix L,
those violations must be addressed as separate actions pursuant to applicable enforcement
guidance.




Andree Pollock, Manager
Underground Storage Tank Program
April 15, 2011




Rreiter/headquarters documents/tech assist comp inspec final 4-15-11   Page 5 of 5    April 2011
