Hazardous Waste Fees for
Remediation Wastes




                                             Hazardous Waste
                                             700 NE Multnomah St.,
                                             Suite 600
                                             Portland, OR 97232
                                             Phone:     503-229-5696
                                                        800-452-4011
                                             Fax:       503-229-6742
                                             Contact: Becky Williams
                                             www.oregon.gov/DEQ


                                             DEQ is a leader in
                                             restoring, maintaining and
                                             enhancing the quality of
                                             Oregon’s air, land and
                                             water.




                                              Last Updated: 6/2017
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ can provide documents in an alternate format or in a language other than English upon request. Call
DEQ at 800-452-4011 or email deqinfo@deq.state.or.us.



Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                ii
Disclaimer
This directive is intended solely as guidance for DEQ employees. It does not constitute rulemaking by
the Environmental Quality Commission and may not be relied upon to create an enforceable right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any person. With written
managerial approval, DEQ employees may deviate from this directive. DEQ anticipates revising this
directive from time to time as conditions warrant.




Document Development
                            David LeBrun, Hazardous Waste Policy
 Prepared By:               Analyst

                            Hazardous Waste and Cleanup Program
 Reviewed By:               Management Teams


 Approved By:                                                              Date:




                                                                                                        iii
Table of Contents
1.    Intent/Purpose/Statement of Need
2.    Applicability
3.    Summary
4.    Background
5.    Definitions
6.    List of acronymns used in this IMD
7.    Directive
8.    List of Tables and/or Figures
9.    Appendices
10.   Record of Revisions to IMD




                                           iv
1. Purpose
This Internal Management Directive (IMD) clarifies and supersedes previous Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) policies (including policy 2000-PO-003, 2000-PO-001, 1999-PO-
003 and 1997-PO-001) regarding the collection of fees for hazardous wastes that are generated
from site remediation activities undertaken or approved by DEQ or the federal Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA).

This IMD establishes when and how DEQ will charge the $200 RCRA Site ID fee. DEQ
occasionally issues provisional RCRA Site Identification numbers after hours and for emergency
cleanups. EPA authorized a procedure for rapid issuance of EPA Site Identification numbers to
hazardous waste generators and transporters during spills and other unanticipated events. EPA
regional offices or states can issue provisional numbers to hazardous waste generators and
transporters who do not obtain identification numbers through standard procedures during
emergencies and other unusual circumstances to streamline the transport of hazardous waste to
authorized hazardous waste management facilities.1 Historically, DEQ has not transferred these
provisional numbers to Your DEQ Online; therefore, DEQ has not charged a $200 fee for a
provisional RCRA number. This IMD creates a process for DEQ staff to input provisional
numbers into Your DEQ Online, and ensures that DEQ or EPA pay the fee, as required by
Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 465.077.

The purpose of this IMD is to facilitate remediation of contaminated sites through cleanup
actions implemented under DEQ or EPA oversight by exempting hazardous waste generator fees
for remediation waste and investigation-derived waste (IDW) generated and managed on-site,
and reducing fees for IDW managed at off-site treatment, storage or disposal facilities. This IMD
aligns the DEQ’s generator fee structure with the level of effort required by the DEQ’s Resource,
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) program in overseeing on- and off-site management
activities.

The DEQ Cleanup Program employs EPA’s Area of Contamination Policy for on-site remedial
action involving consolidation and containment of contaminated soil that may contain RCRA
hazardous waste constituents. Under this policy, EPA has not defined this contaminated media as
solid waste provided the party undertaking the cleanup is a federal or state agency and/or a
private party performing or under DEQ formal agreement or order.




1
 45 FR 85022, 85023 (December 24, 1980), rule related notice from Douglas M. Costle, Administrator
Environmental Protection Agency on Availability of Provisional EPA Identification Numbers.
2. Applicability
This IMD applies to the collection of fees for hazardous wastes generated from site remediation
activities. This IMD does not apply to voluntary letter agreement or independent cleanup
program agreements.

DEQ RCRA and Cleanup Staff will use this IMD to determine when to charge the $200
application fee for the RCRA Site ID number. This IMD establishes the process for Cleanup
Staff issuing provisional numbers and how to coordinate with the Hazardous Waste Program to
pay for these numbers. This IMD also applies to RCRA and Cleanup staff charging EPA for
RCRA site ID numbers.

The $200 fee applies to anyone requesting a new RCRA Site ID number including:

      Hazardous waste generators applying for a new ID number to ship manifested waste.
       Note: Conditionally Exempt Generators (CEGs) are not required to obtain an ID number
       but will be charged the application fee for new numbers if requested.
      Hazardous waste remediation site owners/contractors who generate or transport regulated
       amounts of Hazardous Waste as a result of their cleanup activities.
      Businesses generating regulated amounts of hazardous waste chemicals at their facility.
      Hazardous Waste Transporters.
      Hazardous Waste Transfer Facilities.
      Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage or Disposal Facilities.
      Recyclers of Hazardous Waste.
      Marketer or Burners of Hazardous Waste Fuel.
      Used Oil Collection Centers, Transporters, Transfer Facilities, Marketers, Off-
       Speculation Used Oil Burners or Used Oil Processors/Re-refiners.
      Large Quantity Handlers of Universal Waste, Off-Site Universal Waste Collection Sites,
       Pesticide Collection Programs or Destination Facilities for Universal Waste.
      Department of Environmental Quality Remediation Removal Activities.
      Environmental Protection Agency Remediation Removal Activities.

DEQ issues the RCRA Site Identification Number to a business at the location specified on the
application; the business cannot transfer the number to a new location. Businesses that move will
have to pay the $200 fee for a new number at the new location.

The $200 fee applies unless specifically exempted by ORS 465, Oregon Administrative Rule
(OAR) § 100-106 and this IMD.
3. Summary
Under Oregon's current hazardous waste regulations, DEQ requires generators of hazardous
waste to pay certain annual fees, based on the volumes of wastes generated annually. There are
two types of annual fees that apply to hazardous waste generators: (1) The annual “hazardous
waste activity verification fee,” commonly referred to as the generator fee, which is assessed
based on generator status (i.e., large quantity- or small quantity generator), and (2) the
“hazardous waste generation fee,” referred on DEQ invoices as the waste management fee,
which is assessed on individual waste streams based on the quantity and management method.

Current rules provide no explicit exemption or consideration for media contaminated with
hazardous waste that are generated during cleanup actions, i.e., “remediation waste” and
“investigation-derived waste” (see definitions page 3), as distinguished from hazardous wastes
that are generated on an ongoing basis from industrial or commercial operations. However, DEQ
has determined that remediation wastes merit special consideration with regard to the levy of
hazardous waste generator fees.

DEQ intends to waive all generator fees for “remediation waste” and “investigation-derived
waste” (IDW) generated and managed only on-site (see definitions). Remediation waste and
IDW managed off site will still be subject to certain generator fees. Note: Hazardous waste
generated from cleanup activities that are not subject to DEQ or EPA oversight and
approval, and "as generated" hazardous wastes (i.e. wastes from ongoing industrial,
commercial operations) will continue to be subject to all generator fees.

This IMD examines which generator fees apply to remediation waste based on two conditions: 1)
Whether the waste is managed on-site or shipped off-site for treatment, storage or disposal, and
2) whether it was generated from cleanup activities conducted under DEQ or EPA oversight
through a formal agreement or order. The IMD also notes the applicable waste management
requirements to on- and off-site remediation waste.
4. Background
The $200 application fee for the RCRA Site ID Number began on October 1, 2003 with passage
of Senate Bill 196. This Bill raised hazardous waste generator fees and created a $200
application fee for processing new RCRA Site Identification Numbers. The RCRA Site
Identification number is also known as the Generator ID Number or U.S. EPA ID Number.

The applicable law includes ORS 466.077 Fee for generators of hazardous waste to obtain
identification number. (1) Generators of hazardous waste who are required to obtain an EPA
identification number from the DEQ pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 262.12 shall pay to the department a
one-time processing fee of $200 at the time of submitting an application for the identification
number. (2) Fees paid under this section are continuously appropriated to the department to pay
the costs of implementing ORS 466.005 to 466.385.

The Federal Regulations have three requirements to obtain an identification number.

The generator requirement of 40 CFR § 262.12 the EPA identification numbers. (a) A generator
must not treat, store, dispose of, transport, or offer for transportation, hazardous waste without
having received an EPA identification number from the Administrator. (b) A generator who has
not received an EPA identification number may obtain one by applying to the Administrator
using EPA form 8700-12. Upon receiving the request the Administrator will assign an EPA
identification number to the generator. (c) A generator must not offer his hazardous waste to
transporters or to treatment, storage, or disposal facilities that have not received an EPA
identification number.
The transporter requirement of 40 CFR § 263.11 EPA identification number. (a) A transporter
must not transport hazardous wastes without having received an EPA identification number from
the Administrator. (b) A transporter who has not received an EPA identification number may
obtain one by applying to the Administrator using EPA Form 8700-12. Upon receiving the
request, the Administrator will assign an EPA identification number to the transporter.
The Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) requirement of 40 CFR § 265.11
Identification number. Every facility owner or operator must apply to EPA for an EPA
identification number in accordance with the EPA notification procedures.
5. Definitions
Area of Contamination Policy: In what is typically referred to as the area of contamination
(AOC) policy, EPA interprets RCRA to allow certain discrete areas of generally dispersed
contamination to be considered RCRA units (usually landfills). Because an AOC is equated to a
RCRA land-based unit, consolidation and in situ treatment of hazardous waste within the AOC
does not create a new point of hazardous waste generation for purposed of RCRA. This
interpretation allows waste to be consolidated or treated in situ within an AOC without triggering
land disposal restrictions or minimum technology requirements. The AOC interpretation may be
applied to any hazardous remediation waste (including non-media wastes) that is in or on the
land. Note that the AOC policy only covers consolidation and other in situ waste management
techniques carried out within an AOC. For ex situ waste management or transfer of wastes from
one AOC to another, see discussion of corrective action management units, below. The AOC
Policy was first articulated in the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency
Plan (NCP). See 53 FR 51444 for detailed discussion in proposed NCP preamble; 55 FR 8758-
8760, March 8,1990 for final NCP preamble discussion. See also, most recent EPA guidance,
March 13, 1996 EPA memo, “Use of the Area of Contamination Concept During RCRA
Cleanups.”

Investigation-derived wastes (IDW), which are often considered a subset of remediation
wastes, are wastes that are generated from field investigation activities, approved and overseen
by DEQ or EPA, that are specifically designed to determine the nature and extent of
contamination. IDW is typically generated during the site assessment, remedial investigation or
feasibility study stage of a cleanup project. The critical determination to be made prior to
categorizing waste as IDW is whether the waste was generated from an activity related to
determining the nature and extent of contamination. IDW includes, but is not limited to: drilling
mud, cuttings, and purge water from test borings and well installation; purge water, soil and
other materials from collection of samples; contaminated personnel protective equipment, and
solutions used to decontaminate non-disposable protective clothing and equipment used during
field investigation activities. IDW does not include wastes that are generated from actual
removal or remedial activities.

On-site for purposes of ORS 465.315(3), means the areal extent of contamination and all
suitable areas in close proximity to the contamination necessary for implementation of a removal
or remedial action.

Remediation Wastes: are defined as all solid and hazardous waste and all media (including
groundwater, surface water, soils and sediments) and debris that contain listed hazardous waste
or that themselves exhibit a hazardous characteristic and are managed for implementing cleanup.
For purposes of this policy, remediation wastes subject to the exemption are those that are
generated as a result of cleanup actions conducted under a formal agreement or order with DEQ
or EPA. This includes waste generated from removal or remedial activities (including spill
response activities) being conducted under the authority of Oregon’s Cleanup Program through a
formal agreement or order, RCRA corrective actions, and Federal Superfund actions.
6. Acronyms Used in This Directive
DEQ – Department of Environmental Quality
EPA – Environmental Protection Agency
IDW – Investigation derived waste
OAR – Oregon Administrative Rules
OERS – Oregon Emergency Response System
ORS – Oregon Revised Statutes
RCRA – Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RP – Responsible Party
TSDF – Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility
7. Directive
   7.1   Applicability: This IMD applies to the collection of fees for hazardous wastes
         that are generated from site remediation activities. This IMD does not apply to
         voluntary letter agreement or Independent Cleanup program agreements.

   7.2   Hazardous Waste Fees for Remediation Wastes: DEQ has determined that
         remediation wastes merit special consideration with regard to the levy of
         hazardous waste generation fees. If the conditions in 7.2.3 are met the generator is
         exempt from the following fees

         7.2.1 Fee Exemption from “Hazardous Waste Activity Verification Fee” The
         annual generator fee is assessed based on generator status.

         7.2.2 Fee Exemption from “Hazardous Waste Generation Fee” Invoiced as the
         waste management fee assessed on individual waste streams based on quantity
         and management method.

         7.2.3 Conditions for Meeting Fee Exemption. To meet the exemption from the
         fees the remediation waste must be managed:
                 1. On-site
                 2. Conducted under DEQ or EPA oversight
                 3. Formal Agreement and Order

         Note: Hazardous waste that is generated from cleanup activities that are not
         subject to DEQ or EPA oversight and approval and “as generated” hazardous
         wastes will continue to be subject to all generator fees.

         7.2.4 Management of On-site Remediation Wastes.
                1. Remediation waste and IDW that is generated and managed on-site is
                   subject to the rules and/or a site-specific cleanup order or agreement of
                   DEQ’s Cleanup Program.
                2. On-Site waste management must be identified and reported to DEQ in
                   the annual hazardous waste report.
                3. IDW or remediation wastes that are managed on-site do not need to be
                   counted for purposes of determining generator status or for paying
                   generator fees.

         7.2.5 Management of Off-site Remediation Waste.
                1. Must count these wastes to determine their accurate generator status
                2. Are subject to the annual activity verification fee based on their true
                   generator status.
                3. Generators of remediation wastes that are managed at off-site TSDs
                   are subject to hazardous waste generation fees.
             Note: ALL hazardous wastes that are managed off-site apply to a site’s
             generator status.

7.3   Charging the $200 RCRA Site ID Number Fee: Persons required to pay the $200
      RCRA Site ID Number Fee:

      7.3.1. Anyone requesting a new RCRA Site ID Number including:

             1. Hazardous Waste generators applying for a new ID number to ship
                 manifested waste. Note: Conditionally Exempt Generators (CEGs) are
                 not required to obtain an ID number but will be charged the
                 application fee for new numbers.
             2. Hazardous Waste remediation site owners/contractors who generate or
                 transport regulated amounts of Hazardous Waste as a result of their
                 cleanup activities.
             3. Businesses generating regulated amounts of Hazardous Waste
                 chemicals at their facility.
             4. Hazardous Waste Transporters.
             5. Hazardous Waste Transfer Facilities.
             6. Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage or Disposal Facilities.
             7. Recyclers of Hazardous Waste.
             8. Marketer or Burners of Hazardous Waste Fuel.
             9. Used Oil Collection Centers, Transporters, Transfer Facilities,
                 Marketers, Off-Speculation Used Oil Burners or Used Oil
                 Processors/Re-refiners.
             10. Large Quantity Handlers of Universal Waste, Off-Site Universal
                 Waste Collection Sites, Pesticide Collection Programs or Destination
                 Facilities for Universal Waste.
             11. DEQ Remediation Removal Activity Sites.
             12. EPA Remediation Removal Activity Sites.

      7.3.2. RCRA Site ID Number Fee location. The RCRA Site Identification
             Number is issued to the person at the location specified on the application
             and cannot be transferred to a new location. Companies that move will
             have to pay the $200 fee for a new number at their new location.


      7.3.3. Exemptions from paying the $200 Site ID Number fee.

             1. CEGs that have previously deactivated their RCRA Site ID number
                and want to reactivate their original number. CEGs will not be charged
                the $200 fee if they need to reactivate their ID number due to an event
                that causes them to become a small or large quantity generator or for
                other reasons.
             2. Businesses with ownership changes if the existing business already has
                an active RCRA Site ID number. This exemption is only for a change
                in ownership. It does not apply to new businesses operating where an
                existing business previously operated.
             3. The fee will not be collected from businesses with an approved
                Abandoned Hazardous Waste Fee Relief form.


7.4   Provisional RCRA Site ID Numbers:

      7.4.1 Issuing provisional numbers issued to DEQ’s Cleanup Program. DEQ’s
      Cleanup and Emergency Response Program can issue provisional numbers for
      remedial action cases with ORP prefix for Emergency Cleanup cases. DEQ can
      issue provisional numbers for the following types of cleanups:

             1. Drug lab cleanups. Calls will go into OERS who will contact the DEQ
                Duty Officer. The Duty Officer will assign the next available ORP
                number from the provisional number log book. The Duty Officer will
                notify the local police of the number for the drug lab cleanup. The
                local or state police contact will sign and fill out the manifest.
             2. Spills of hazardous material where the responsible party is unavailable,
                unknown or unwilling to perform cleanup. Calls will go into OERS
                who will contact the DEQ Duty Officer. The Duty Officer will assign
                the next available ORP number from the provisional number log book.
                DEQ’s Cleanup Program will sign and fill out the manifest.

      7.4.2 Entering provisional numbers into Your DEQ Online. The process for
      entering provisional numbers will include:
             1. Once a month the Cleanup Program’s Emergency Response Team will
                 send an email to the Hazardous Waste Program’s RCRA Site ID
                 Number Contact to request the numbers be entered into Your DEQ
                 Online. The email will include the Cleanup Project number, the
                 provisional number issued, the address the number was issued to, and
                 any other information available about the site.
             2. The RCRA Site ID Number Contact will input the number into Your
                 DEQ Online. If the address that is being issued a provisional number is
                 already assigned a number in Your DEQ Online, the Multiple ID
                 number policy should be followed to come up with an alternate
                 address to issue the provisional number to.
             3. The RCRA Site ID Number Contact will route a Memo to the Revenue
                 Accountant through the Business Office Accounting Manager
                 notifying DEQ’s Business Office that the Cleanup Program will pay
                 the RCRA Site ID fund the $200 fee for the number. The Memo will
                 include the Cleanup Project number, the provisional number issued,
                 the fund code, and the index program cost account.
             4. The Business Office will transfer the $200 site ID fee from the
                 Cleanup index program account to the Site ID Program and notify the
                 Hazardous Waste and Cleanup Programs once this has been
                 completed.
7.4.3 Closing out provisional numbers.

       1. Drug lab cleanups. When the DEQ Cleanup program receives the
          manifest for the cleanup, the Cleanup Program will send an email to
          the Hazardous Waste Program requesting the Hazardous Waste
          Program withdraw the ORP number. The email will note the
          provisional number to be withdrawn.
       2. Cleanup Program Cleanups. When the cleanup is completed and the
          site is closed, the Cleanup Program will send an email to the
          Hazardous Waste Program requesting the Hazardous Waste Program
          withdraw the number. The email will note the provisional number to
          be withdrawn.
       3. Upon receiving an email from the Cleanup Program, the RCRA Site
          ID number Contact will withdraw the number from Your DEQ Online.

7.4.4 Provisional numbers issued to EPA. If EPA cleans up a site and needs a
provisional number, DEQ will follow the process noted above in 7.1 through 7.4
with the following exceptions:
        1. The Cleanup Program Duty Officer can issue a provisional number to
            EPA but will note the appropriate EPA cleanup contact as the contact
            for the number.
        2. The RCRA Site ID number Contact will input the provisional number
            into Your DEQ Online with the appropriate EPA contact included.
        3. DEQ will invoice the $200 Site ID Fee to the EPA contact.
        4. When the Cleanup Program has information that the cleanup is
            completed and the site is closed, the Cleanup Program will send an
            email to the Hazardous Waste Program to withdraw the number. The
            email will note the provisional number to be withdrawn.
8. List of tables and/or figures [if applicable]
                          Generator Fees Applicable to IDW and Remediation Waste


                                        MANAGED ON-SITE                            MANAGED OFF-SITE




  REMEDIATION WASTE
                                      Do not count towards generator status.      Count toward generator status.

                                      Report waste generation and management      Report waste generation and
                                      in annual HAZARDOUS WASTE report.           management in annual HW report.
                                     No fees apply.                              Annual HW activity verification fee
                                     Wastes are managed under site-specific      (based on generator status) and HW
                                      requirements of cleanup program order or    generation fee (based on quantity and
                                      formal agreement; does not apply to         management method) apply.
                                      voluntary letter agreement or independent   Generator must manage as hazardous
                                      cleanup program agreement.                  wastes (e.g., manifesting, use of a TSD
                                                                                  facility).

                                      Do not count towards generator status.      Count toward generator status.




  INVESTIGATION-DERIVED
                                      Report waste generation and management      Report waste generation and
                                      in annual HAZARDOUS WASTE report.           management in annual HW report.
                                      No fees apply.                              Annual HW activity verification fee



                          WASTE
                                                                                  applies; HW generation fee does not
                                      Wastes are managed under site-specific      apply if cleanup is conducted under
                                      requirements of cleanup program order or    formal State/Federal agreement or order.
                                      formal agreement; does not apply to
                                      voluntary letter agreement or independent   Generator must manage wastes as
                                      cleanup program agreement.                  hazardous waste.
9. Appendices [if applicable]
10. Record of Revisions to IMD
      Revision            Date         Changes            Editor
Cover page       6/2017          Address change   Acomb
