 Internal Management Directive


Implementing Site-Specific
Background Pollutant Criteria
for NPDES Permit Holders
Revision 1.0



                                             Water Quality Division
                                             Surface Water
                                             Management
                                             811 SW 6th Avenue
                                             Portland, OR 97204
                                             Phone:     (503) 229-5696
                                                        (800) 452-4011
                                             Fax:       (503) 229-6762
                                             Contact: Spencer Bohaboy
                                             www.oregon.gov/DEQ


                                             DEQ is a leader in
                                             restoring, maintaining
                                             and enhancing the quality
                                             of Oregon’s air, land and
                                             water




                                             Last Updated:6/1/2012
                                             By:  Spencer
                                               Last       Bohaboy
                                                    Updated: xx/xx/xx
                                             DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD
                                               By: Jane Doe
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality   Web
                                               DEQPub.#12-WQ-039
                                                    03-??-###
                                             Version 1.0 ######
                                               Web Pub#
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality   ii
Implementing Site-Specific Background Pollutant Criteria for
 iii
NPDES Permit Holders


Disclaimer
This internal management directive (IMD) represents the Department of Environmental Quality’s
current directions to staff on how to implement OAR 340-041-0033(6). This rule governs DEQ’s
development of site-specific background pollutant criteria for NPDES permit holders. This IMD is
not a final agency action and does not create any rights, duties, obligations, or defenses, implied or
otherwise, in any third parties. This directive should not be construed as rule, although some of it
describes existing state and federal laws. The recommendations contained in this directive should
not be construed as a requirement of rule or statute. DEQ anticipates revising this document from
time to time as conditions warrant.




Document Development
Prepared       Spencer Bohaboy, Policy Development Specialist, WQ Permitting, HQ
By:            Andrea Matzke, WQ Standards Specialist, WQ Standards and Assessment Section,
               HQ


Reviewed       Dennis Ades, Manager Surface Water Management Section, DEQ
By:            Jennifer Wigal, Manager Standards and Assessment Section, DEQ
               Scott Hoatson, Agency Quality Assurance Officer, DEQ



Approved       Gregory K. Aldrich, Administrator, DEQ
By:            Water Quality Division, HQ

               __Signed Copy on file at DEQ HQ____________             Date _______________




Alternative formats (Braille, large type) of this document can be made available.
Contact DEQ’s Office of Communications & Outreach, Portland, at (503) 229-5696, or toll-free in Oregon at
1-800-452-4011, ext. 5696.


Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                  iii
Implementing Site-Specific Background Pollutant Criteria for
 iv
NPDES Permit Holders

Table of Contents
1. Introduction and Background                                                                        1
      1.1 Purpose and Content
      1.2 History and Development
      1.3 Description of Tool
      1.4 Applicability
      1.5 Regulatory Objectives
2. Conditions for Granting a SSBPC                                                                    3
      2.1 Threshold Conditions
           2.1.1 The discharger has a current NPDES permit
           2.1.2 The pollutant under consideration must be a carcinogen
           2.1.3 There are no Waste Load Allocations assigned (or under consideration) for the pollutant
                   in the receiving waterbody
           2.1.4 The discharger withdraws the intake water containing the pollutant from the “same body
                   of water” into which the effluent is discharged
      2.2 Operational Conditions
           2.2.1 The permittee must use any feasible pollutant reduction measures available and known
                 to minimize the pollutant concentration in their discharge
           2.2.2 The pollutant discharge has not been chemically or physically altered in a manner that
                 causes adverse water quality impacts that would not occur if the intake pollutants were
                 left in-stream.
           2.2.3 The timing and location of the pollutant discharge would not cause adverse water quality
                  impacts that would not occur if the intake pollutant were left in-stream.
3. SSBPC Calculation and Evaluation                                                                   8
     3.1 Modeling Parameters
          3.1.1 Ambient Conditions
          3.1.2 Water and Pollutant Input Values
          3.1.3 Evaporative Loss, Water Removal and Treatment
     3.2 Calculating and Selecting Candidate Criteria
     3.3 Mass-based Criteria Review
4. SSBPC Implementation and Permit Renewal                                                            14
5. Public Notification Requirements                                                                   14
6. DEQ Roles and Responsibilities                                                                     15
Appendix A: Revision History                                                                          16
Appendix B: Site-Specific Background Pollutant Criterion Rule Language                                17




Oregon Department of Environmental Quality                                                                iv
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                     Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                1 1                                   Page 1 of 20




1. Introduction and Background
1.1 Purpose and Content
On June 16, 2011, the Environmental Quality Commission (EQC) adopted a rule (see OAR 340-041-
0033(6)) allowing DEQ to establish a Site-Specific Background Pollutant Criterion (SSBPC) when a series
of threshold and operational conditions are met as further described below. The purpose of the rule is to
allow existing permittees using waters that contain background pollutants a degree of relief from the
requirement to treat the pollutants to meet water quality criteria upon discharge. Once granted, the SSBPC
would also act as a limitation on future facility growth (through mass limitation) until a TMDL for the
water body can be developed 1 .

This rule became effective upon Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approval on October 17, 2011.
The purpose of this Internal Management Directive (IMD) is to provide guidance to DEQ staff on how to
implement this new provision and how to calculate a SSBPC.


1.2 History and Development
From 2006 – 2011, the DEQ undertook a rulemaking to revise Oregon’s human health water quality
criteria. During the course of this rulemaking, stakeholders 2 expressed concern that toxic pollutants
already present in ambient water (“background pollutants”) would create significant challenges for permit
holders to meet the more stringent water quality standards. DEQ developed two rules through this
stakeholder process to help permit holders address these concerns, the Intake Credit and the SSBPC Rules.
For more information on the Intake Credit Rule, see Appendix F in the Reasonable Potential Analysis
Process for Toxic Pollutants Internal Management Directive 3 (RPA IMD). The SSBPC Rule addresses
similar situations as the Intake Credit, but is narrower in application as further described below. Final
SSBPC rule language is found in Appendix B of this directive. For additional information on the Intake
Credit, SSBPC and other tools developed for the purposes of implementing the human health criteria in
NPDES permits, see the DEQ Issue Paper: Implementing Water Quality Standards for Toxic Pollutants in
NPDES Permits 4


1.3 Description of Tool
The SSBPC is a performance-based criterion that can be used where the permit writer establishes that the
discharging facility is operating within specified conditions. The criterion is developed based on the
background pollutant concentration of the source/receiving waterbody and the impact of the background
concentration on the amount of pollutant in the final discharged effluent. The SSBPC should not be
confused with the development of site-specific criteria for a stream segment or entire waterbody. Though
the two site specific criterion are similar, the development of the SSBPCis different in that a specific
procedure with certain limitations and defined thresholds that must be followed. As a performance-based
standard provision (i.e. predictable, repeatable and transparent), DEQ is not required to get individual
approval from the EPA when developing and implementing the SSBPC provision for each discharger.


1
  In the interim, additional growth would only be allowed if the discharger were able to free-up additional capacity
through source reduction measures or additional treatment to offset any increase in pollutant load.
2
  The workgroup was comprised of industrial, municipal, and environmental representatives, in addition to DEQ, EPA,
and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation staff
3
  DEQ. Version 3.1. February 13, 2012. See: http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/pubs/imds/rpaIMD.pdf
4
  DEQ. Issue Paper: Implementing Water Quality Standards for Toxic Pollutants in NPDES Permits. May 24, 2001.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                          Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                     June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                    2 2                                    Page 2 of 20



DEQ has concluded that the pollutant concentration increase allowed in circumstances governed by this
provision continue to protect human health.

Limitations: This provision has the following limitations:

    •    the provision is limited to human health toxics that are carcinogens and is not applicable for
         aquatic toxicity or non-carcinogenic, human health water quality criteria
    •    the pollutant must be from the “same body of water”
    •    the SSBPC applies in the vicinity of the permitted discharge for the sole purpose of establishing
         permit effluent limits for an existing NPDES discharger
    •    in no case could a current effluent concentration to a water body be allowed to increase as a result
         of implementation of the provision
    •    the underlying water body criterion remains applicable for all other Clean Water Act programs
         and actions, such as 303(d) listing and TMDL development
    •    a slight increase in effluent concentration may be permitted so long as the designated uses of the
         water body are protected and the increase in the final in-stream concentration is less than or equal
         to 3% and a cancer risk of 10-4 is not exceeded 5 6

the SSBPC may not result in an increase of the mass load in the receiving water body. Finally, the rule
requires that the application of the SSBPC criteria be re-evaluated upon permit renewal.
Procedural Overview: The SSBPC Rule establishes a site-specific criterion based upon the most stringent
of the:
     (1) in-stream pollutant concentration following mixing of current discharge (given feasible pollutant reductions)
         into the receiving water,
    (2) in-stream pollutant concentration based on an increase of 3% above background,
    (3) in-stream pollutant concentration based on the water quality criterion at a 1 × 10-4 risk level, or
    (4) in-stream pollutant concentration that would not result in an increase in the mass loading of the pollutant.
Once the most stringent site-specific criterion is determined, the permit writer uses this criterion to
calculate a Water Quality Based Effluent Limit (WQBEL) (see Section 3).


1.4 Applicability
The SSBPC may only be used by currently NPDES permitted 7 domestic and industrial dischargers that
withdraw their source waters (municipal or process) from waterbodies that periodically or chronically
exceed the water quality criterion and the effluent is returned to the same body of water. The most likely
application for this provision will be non-contact cooling applications that use source waters containing
background pollutants taken from a point upstream of the facility, and returned downstream. Here, the
volume of the process water is decreased through evaporative cooling, resulting in an overall increase in
pollutant concentration and would not result in an increase in the mass loading of the pollutant.


1.5 Regulatory Objectives

5
  The EPA believes that highly exposed populations should not exceed a cancer risk of 1 x 10-4 (1 in 10,000 additional
incidents of cancer). The fish consumption rate of 175 g/day used in developing carcinogenic human health criteria is
representative of populations that are highly exposed (i.e. regularly eat fish & shellfish). As a matter of policy, the
Department determines its human health criteria using a risk factor of 10-6. Note: this provision will not be available
for arsenic human health criteria because the criterion already reflects a risk of 10-4.
6
  The SSBPC is similar to the Intake Credit Rule in concept and variable inputs, but it differs in that a slight increase in
concentration is permitted
7
  per OAR 340-041-0033(6)(c)
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                      Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                 June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                3 3                                    Page 3 of 20



Where a water body exceeds a water quality criterion, any facility withdrawing water would normally be
required to remove the excess pollutants and meet the water quality criterion at the point of discharge
without the benefit of dilution or assimilative capacity. This has the effect of making the users (though not
the polluters) of a water body responsible for the restoration of water quality and can impose a significant
economic and technical burden on them. The objective of this provision (and IMD) is to allow facilities
and municipalities to continue to utilize the state’s water resources in a manner that protects human health,
prevents further environmental degradation, reduces the economic and technical burden and is an
incremental step towards the development of a watershed restoration plan.



2. Conditions for Granting a SSBPC
In order for a facility to qualify for a SSBPC, the permit writer must complete the following:

      •    Threshold Conditions: the permit writer must review the existing permit development information
           and evaluate whether each of the threshold conditions described in the rule can be met prior to
           continuation of the process (see Section 2.1).
      •    Sample Plan Development: Once the permit writer has established the threshold conditions have
           been met, they will consult with the permittee to include the various monitoring, source
           investigations and/or engineering study requirements necessary to support the evaluation of the
           operational conditions and the development of an SSBPC into a Sampling Plan 8 .
      •    Operational Conditions: Once the permittee has collected the pre-requisite information, the
           permit writer must evaluate whether each of the operational conditions described in the rule can be
           met during the permit term (see Section 2.2.)

This process is very similar to the conditions required as part of an intake credit analysis, so the Sampling
Plan should be designed to address both evaluations. The permit writer should document the SSBPC
development process and resulting decisions in the Permit Evaluation Report (PER).


2.1 Threshold Conditions
2.1.1 The discharger has a current NPDES permit
The permit writer should ensure that either the owner or operator of the facility has an active NPDES
permit. By rule, a SSBPC is not available for new permit applications. The permit writer should review
the facility status on the Water Quality Source Information System (SIS) Database at the following link:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/sisdata/sisdata.asp.

2.1.2 The pollutant under consideration must be a carcinogen
The permit writer should ensure that the pollutant for which a SSBPC is being considered is identified as a
human health carcinogenic pollutant. The status of each pollutant is described on Table 40, Human Health
Water Quality Criteria for Toxic Pollutants.

2.1.3 There are no Waste Load Allocations assigned (or under consideration) for
      the pollutant in the receiving waterbody
The permit writer should determine if a Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) has been completed and a
Waste Load Allocation (WLA) assigned for the pollutant under consideration for a SSBPC. If the
discharger has been assigned a WLA for the pollutant, then a SSBPC is not allowed and the WLA would

8
    This is the same Sampling Plan as required in Schedule B permit language and RPA IMD.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                        Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                   June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                  4 4                                    Page 4 of 20



be used to develop an effluent limit. If a TMDL or WLA is under consideration for the receiving
waterbody, the permit writer should contact the appropriate basin coordinator for more information. The
Department maintains a list of TMDLs and resources on line at the following address:
http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/tmdls/tmdls.htm.

2.1.4 The discharger withdraws the intake water containing the pollutant from the
      “same body of water” into which the effluent is discharged 9
An intake pollutant is considered to be from the “same body of water” as the discharge if the department
finds that the intake pollutant would have reached the vicinity of the outfall point in the receiving water
within a reasonable period had it not been removed by the permittee. Accordingly, water withdrawn from
upstream tributaries and hydrologically connected 10 ground waters may also be used in the establishment
of a SSPBC. However, ground waters containing anthropogenically created pollutants (e.g. industrial,
commercial, or municipal operations, disposal actions, etc.) cannot be counted in the calculation of a
SSBPC (per OAR 340-041-0033(6)(a)(C)(ii)(II)). For facilities with multiple water sources, only those
sources from the “same body of water” may be counted in the calculation of the SSPBC. In this case, the
intake concentration should be flow-weighted to reflect only those sources that meet the rule’s condition.
See Section 3.1.2 for additional information.

The permit writer should develop a Location Map establishing the location of the source water intake
points, their location relative to the outfall and any other relevant information (See Figure 1). The map
should be sufficiently detailed as to document the information the permit writer used to establish that the
various threshold conditions and requirements have been met (i.e. same body of water, source is upstream,
separation from anthropogenically contaminated ground waters, etc.). The following are likely sources of
information that can be used for performing these evaluations and developing the map:
    •    DEQ’s drinking water program for well locations and logs: http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/dwp/contacts.htm
    •    DEQ’s LASAR and USGS’s Water Data for Oregon databases for surface and ground water quality data
    •    Oregon’s municipal Drinking Water Data Online database for municipal intake concentrations, source type
         and well locations
    •    Facility permit renewal application data summary (facility file) and Discharge Monitoring Reports
    •    Municipal drinking water and waste water treatment plant flow and pollutant concentration records

Additionally, the permit writer should identify any potential sources of anthropogenic ground water
contamination (if applicable) for inclusion in the map and the PER. A likely source of information
regarding the presence of active ground water cleanup sites and the location of their discharge (i.e.
municipal sewerage system) is available from the Department’s Land Quality Division, Environmental
Cleanup Section.




9
  The rule language addressing this subject was developed to mirror similar rule language for the use of intake credits.
Accordingly, the Intake Credit Guidance described in Appendix F of the RPA IMD offers a more detailed description
of the evaluation process. (http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/pubs/imds/rpaIMD.pdf)
10
   A simple way to determine if a ground water well is considered “hydrologically connected” is to reference
Oregon’s municipal Drinking Water Data Online database. If the database lists the source well as “GU - Under direct
influence of surface water” and it is upstream of the surface water discharge, the permit writer can considered this
hydrologically connected without additional geotechnical investigation.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                       Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                  June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                 5 5                                    Page 5 of 20



                                                 Figure 1
                                   Example of an SSBPC Evaluation Map



                                                         Outfall
                                                        Location




     The figure establishes that
     the ground and surface
     water sources are upstream
     of the outfall and are from
     the “same body of water”.
     The figure also shows the
     proximity to the closest
     area of anthropogenically
     contaminated ground water
     to the intake wells.

                                                             Intake
                                                            Locations

                                                ABC GW
                                                Clean-up
                                                  Site



2.2 Operational Conditions
Once the permit writer has established that all of the threshold conditions are met, he/she will need to meet
with the permittee and review the operational conditions that will need to be evaluated. Based on this
discussion, any additional monitoring, data collection, source investigation or engineering studies
necessary to support the evaluation of the operational conditions should be included in the Sampling Plan
and gathered during the 3rd (third) year of the permit term. Without this data, the operational conditions
cannot be evaluated and a SSBPC cannot be granted.

Once the necessary information has been collected, the permit writer must then evaluate each of the
following conditions and determine if they can be met during the upcoming permit term 11 . The permit
writer will need to include provisions in the permit language to ensure that the operational conditions are
maintained throughout the course of the permit term.




11
   If a permittee cannot currently meet an Operational Condition, but can demonstrate that they can do so by the permit
renewal a SSBPC may still be feasible. In this case the permit writer may proceed with the permit development (year
4 to 5) but the Operational Conditions must be met prior to permit renewal at the end of the fifth year.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                       Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                  June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                 6 6                                    Page 6 of 20



2.2.1 The permittee must use any feasible pollutant reduction measures available
      and known to minimize the pollutant concentration in their discharge
Before a SSBPC can be approved, a discharger must have identified and evaluated any feasible pollutant
reduction measures to minimize increases in pollutant concentration. At a minimum, the discharger must
have quantified the primary pollutant sources and processes resulting in increased concentration, and have
evaluated each one for reduction potential. The discharger must have also evaluated the economic and
technical feasibility of making operational changes or capital improvements to their treatment systems to
minimize pollutants.

The challenge for the permit writer in evaluating this condition is meeting the letter of the following
requirement when determining if pollution reduction steps or treatment alternatives are “feasible”:

Requirement: “A site-specific background pollutant criterion may be established where … the permittee
uses any feasible pollutant reduction measures available and known to minimize the pollutant
concentration in their discharge”

Often the processes that are designed to address other environmental concerns (i.e. temperature) or
minimize water consumption thus conserving water withdrawn from ground and/or surface supplies can
increase pollutant concentration. When evaluating the conditions, the permit writer should also weigh
these alternative benefits as compared to the impacts of increased pollutant concentration.

When calculating the facility’s “In-stream Concentration at Current Performance” as part of the
implementation procedures (see Section 3.2), the permit writer should factor in selected reduction
measures. The expectation is the discharger will implement and maintain all selected reduction measures
as a condition of applying for and maintaining the SSBPC. In no case could the current pollutant mass
discharge to a water body be allowed to increase as a result of implementation of the provision.

2.2.2 The pollutant discharge has not been chemically or physically altered in a
      manner that causes adverse water quality impacts that would not occur if the
      intake pollutants were left in-stream.
The objective of this condition is to prevent adverse changes to the pollutants or waters as they pass
through the facility. To determine if an “adverse change” has occurred, the permit writer must incorporate
sampling for both the intake waters and effluent into the Sampling Plan. The permit writer should
evaluate both physical and chemical changes. 12

Typically, physical parameters such as dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids or temperature are
evaluated as part of the normal permit development process. The permit writer should be sensitive to any
synergistic or ancillary effects of changes in these physical parameters that might result in an adverse
condition. For example, a seemingly benign change in stream temperature might result in an adverse
change in dissolved oxygen (or salinity or chemical volatility).

To evaluate chemical changes, the permit writer should begin with pH, electrical conductivity and
hardness, and the speciation of any pollutant parameter sensitive to changes in these parameters. An
adverse condition might stem from a direct change in the pH of the receiving waterbody or as a secondary
impact where a pH change might result in a change in species equilibrium and increased toxicity. The
permit writer might also consider monitoring for the decomposition products of the subject pollutant
parameter and evaluate any change in toxicity.



12
 This evaluation is the same as the “chemical or physical alteration” evaluation required for an Intake Credit. See
RPA IMD, Appendix F for more information.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                   Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                              June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                              7 7                                   Page 7 of 20



For example, if a discharger was requesting a SSBPC for chromium III, the Sampling Plan should include
provisions to assess the potential for a shift in chemical speciation (Cr III & VI) of the pollutant of concern
that can increase overall toxicity. Required actions might include a bench study or additional monitoring
at the intake and effluent locations. If there is a shift from Cr III to Cr VI resulting in an increase in
toxicity, then a SSBPC could not be allowed. Furthermore, the permit writer would need to conduct a
reasonable potential analysis for Cr VI to determine if the water quality criterion is being exceeded.

2.2.3 The timing and location of the pollutant discharge would not cause adverse
      water quality impacts that would not occur if the intake pollutant were left in-
      stream.
The objective of this condition is to determine if the timing and location of the effluent discharge would
cause an adverse water quality impact. This condition will be of greatest concern in streams with low or
effluent dominated flow régimes. The permit writer should identify any on-going or intermittent uses of
the receiving water body in the proximity of the discharge (i.e. drinking water intake, agricultural
withdrawals, fish migration, spawning bars, etc.) and determine their sensitivity to the timing, magnitude
or nature (temperature, pH, toxic exposure, etc.) of the discharge. Accordingly, the discharger should
incorporate ambient flow monitoring into their Sampling Plan in conjunction with toxicity or temperature
monitoring to determine loading rates. The permit writer would then review the results of the Sampling
Plan to determine if an adverse condition exists (i.e. stream scouring, thermal shock loading, disruption of
fish spawning, egg rearing, etc.). Examples of facilities that might have these types of issues are those
with large storage capacity, treatment lagoons, batch treatment, multiple (primary or secondary) outfalls or
discharge via force main.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                      Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                 June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                8 8                                    Page 8 of 20




3. SSBPC Calculation and Evaluation
Once the permit writer has confirmed that all threshold and operational conditions have been met, they can
then calculate the SSBPC.

Worksheet: The SSBPC Worksheet has been developed to calculate the SSPBC and, working in
conjunction with the RPA Workbook, the resultant effluent limits (see Figure 2). The worksheet includes
a series of modeling parameters that describe the ambient and effluent flow conditions as well as other
factors (i.e. evaporation, ground water inputs) that could influence the calculation of the candidate
criterion. The
                                                              Figure 2
permit writer                                Example of a Blank SSBPC Worksheet
may need to
modify the
worksheet
according to
variables present
at their particular
facility or the
type of receiving
water body 13 .
Examples include
adding model
inputs to reflect
multiple water
sources or
curtailing the
allowable amount
of dilution for the
Columbia or
main-stem
Willamette
Rivers to 25% of
flow. Once
ready, the permit
writer will use
the SSBPC
worksheet and
the RPA
Workbook in an
iterative manner
to calculate the
final criterion
and effluent limit
as described in
the figures and
tables below 14 .

13
   When addressing more complex scenarios, it is recommended that the permit writer ask for technical assistance with
further modification of the spreadsheet from the Surface Water Management Section, Headquarters.
14
   Please note that the following Figures 3 through 8 are completed examples of various parts the worksheet shown in
Figure 2
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                       Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                  June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                 9 9                                    Page 9 of 20




Model Parameters: After modifying the worksheet, the permit writer would then enter the applicable
flow, concentration and water loss information into the empty cells. The worksheet would then
automatically calculate the source mass loads and final theoretical discharge and ambient mass loads. It
should be noted that any non-qualified water (i.e. source water not hydrologically connected to receiving
stream) or pollutant loads need not be reflected in this process since the final criterion will be calculated to
only reflect the qualified background pollutant load.

Candidate Criteria: The permit writer would then enter the current water quality criterion and the
alternative 10-4 Risk criterion is automatically calculated. The worksheet also calculates the 3% and
Current Performance candidate criteria. The permit writer would then select the most conservative
criterion (of the three), pasting the value into the active RPA Workbook and calculating new effluent
limits based upon the selected candidate criterion. The permit writer would then enter the resulting
effluent limits into the worksheet where a check is made to ensure that the limits would not result in an
increase in the mass load in the receiving waterbody.

Mass-based Criteria: If it is shown that the calculated effluent limits might result in an increase in mass
load, then it is necessary to calculate a more conservative, mass-based criterion. The permit writer would
then re-paste this criterion into the RPA Workbook and calculate a mass-based effluent limit. These limits
are then entered into the highlighted cells in the worksheet as a final check to ensure that a mass load
increase does not occur. Once established, the new effluent limits can be placed into the final permit.


3.1 Modeling Parameters
It is important to remember that SSBPC are limited to carcinogenic human health criteria which are
calculated to reflect long term, chronic exposure scenarios. Accordingly, the design conditions of the
model should also reflect a long term (20 to 30 year) modeling scenario. It is recommended that the
permit writer should use the same input variables as are used in the “Human Health” Reasonable Potential
Analysis as described in Section 5 of the RPA IMD. The following variables (Table 1) should be used for
calculating the SSBPC for most applications:
                                               Table 1
                                 Summary of SSBPC Calculation Variables
               Symbol           Model Parameters                     Values                 Unit1
                   Qamb         Initial Ambient Flow         Harmonic Mean Flow             MGD
                   Camb        Initial Ambient Conc.            Geometric Mean              µg/l
                   Qin              Intake Flow              Average Annual Flow            MGD
                   Cin              Intake Conc.                Geometric Mean              µg/l
                   Qgw          Ground Water Flow            Average Annual Flow            MGD
                   Cgw         Ground Water Conc.               Geometric Mean              µg/l
                   Qel           Evaporative Loss            Average Annual Flow            MGD
                   Mtr         Mass Removal Rate             Average Annual Flow           g/day2
                   Qef            Discharge Flow             Average Annual Flow            MGD
                   Cef           Discharge Conc.                Geometric Mean              µg/l
               1
                 Million Gallons per Day (MGD), grams per day (g/day) and microgram per liter (µg/l)
               2
                 Conversion factor: [((Concentration, µg/l) / 1000) x (Flow, MGD) x (8.34)] = lb/day
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                   Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                               June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                             10 10                                 Page 10 of 20



Please refer to Figure 3 (See below) as an example of the completed modeling parameters
introducted in Figrue 2:
                                               Figure 3
                               Example of a SSBPC Modeling Parameters




3.1.1 Ambient Conditions
The permit writer should first review readily available sources of flow and concentration data, ensuring
that there is adequate analytical range and a balance of seasonal data points.
                                               Table 2
                               Water Quality and Stream Flow Databases
    Data Source          Data Type                                 Internet Link
       OR. DEQ         Misc. WQ Data                     http://deq12.deq.state.or.us/lasar2/
                         303d List /
       OR DEQ                              http://www.deq.state.or.us/wq/assessment/assessment.htm
                         TMDL List
      NOAA, NW          Stream Flow
    River Forecast          Data,                      http://www.nwrfc.noaa.gov/index.shtml
        Center          Forecasting
       USACE,
                         Temp., TDG                              http://www.nwd-
      Columbia
                        and Flow data             wc.usace.army.mil/TMT/wqwebpage/mainpage.htm
        Basin
       USEPA,
                       Misc. WQ Data                    http://www.epa.gov/storet/index.html
       STORET
        USGS           Misc. WQ Data                         http://waterdata.usgs.gov/nwis
       WA. DOE         Misc WQ Data                   http://www.ecy.wa.gov/databases/wq.html
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                           Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                       June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                   11 11                                   Page 11 of 20



If adequate data is not available, the permit writer should work with the discharger to include in the
Sampling Plan the provisions to collect a robust and seasonally relevant dataset over the third year of the
permit term. Where appropriate, any collection activities should be coordinated with the characterization
of other applicable monitoring locations (intake, influent, effluent, etc.).

The permit writer will enter the ambient flow and concentration results into the worksheet, and the
ambient mass flow will automatically be calculated. See Figure 4.

3.1.2 Water and Pollutant Input Values
The discharger should include in their Sampling Plan a commitment to conduct a source investigation to
quantify the water and pollutant inputs into the collection area or industrial process. For dischargers with
multiple water sources, the permit writer will need to designate each water source classified as coming
from the “same body of water” (see below) on the SSBPC Worksheet. In the example provided (Figure
3), two sources are described, one for surface water and the second for ground water.

Only the pollutant load originating from the “same body of water” can be used in the development of the
SSBPC 15 . In the case where dischargers using municipal water that have sources from different water
bodies, the permit writer will need to perform flow weighting, so that only the mass from the “same body
of water” is reflected on the worksheet. For example, a facility withdraws 10 MGD of ground water
where a geotechnical study indicates that the normal exfiltration rate is 4 MGD. So long as there is not a
change in pollutant concentration, the calculation must be flow weighted and only 4 MGD can be used to
determine the allowable “Ground Water Mass” input. Under the calculated SSBPC, the mass associated
with the anthropogenically influenced portion of the flow (6 MGD) would need to be removed prior to
discharge to prevent an increase in the mass load of the receiving waterbody.

3.1.3 Evaporative Loss, Water Removal and Treatment
Most scenarios addressed by a SSBPC involve an increase in pollutant concentration as the result of
evaporative loss or water removal where the pollutant remains. The scenarios where there is a background
pollutant and no increase in concentration are more readily addressed through an intake credit. Since the
calculation of the criterion is based on a theoretical discharge value 16 , it is important to factor in the rate of
water removal. The permit writer should determine the annual average rate of evaporative loss or water
removal and enter the value, in MGD, in the appropriate cell in the worksheet. If this information is not
readily available, then the permit writer should consider back calculation of the removal rate using another
method such as an intake/influent comparison.


3.2 Calculating and Selecting Candidate Criteria
After inputing the Model Paramaters, the permit writer should then enter the current water quality
criterion into the worksheet. The alternative 10-4 Risk criterion is automatically calculated. 17 Using the
data entered into the Model Parameters section of the worksheet, the other two alternative criteria are
automatically calculated. See Figure 4.

For the candidate criterion reflecting the current discharge and treatment performance, if engineering
studies show that further pollutant reductions can be achieved by the permit holder, the permit writer
should replace the auto-calculated value with one that reflects the current performance minus the estimated

15
   Any other pollutant load must be removed from the system prior to discharge to the receiving water body.
16
   The discharge flow rate is constructed using the qualified system inputs (i.e. intake flow rate + flow weighted
ground water flow rate) minus any losses of water volume (i.e. evaporation). The permit writer can always compare
the resulting value with actual discharge values as a reality check.
17
   Essentially, this involves moving the decimal point on the criterion to the right two times to reflect a shift in the risk
factor from 10-6 to 10-4.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                     Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                 June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                             12 12                                   Page 12 of 20



reductions. The basis of these estimated reductions (i.e. engineering studies, etc.) should be included in
the permit evaluation report.

Once the three candidate criteria are calculated, the permit writer will select the most conservative (Figure
4) and use that value in the active RPA Workbook. The workbook will then re-calculate the RPA and
effluent limit calculations using the selected candidate criterion (Figure 5). The permit writer should then
enter the calculated effluent limits into the applicable cells of the SSBPC worksheet (Figure 6). The
worksheet would then calculate the resultant pollutant mass flow and report (in the “Mass Increase” cell)
if the effluent limits would result in an increase in the ambient mass flow.
                                               Figure 4
                                    Example of a SSBPC Calculation




                                                                    Enter this walue into the
                                                                    RPA Workbook




                                              Figure 5
                             Examples of a RPA and WQBEL Calculations




                                   RPA: For example, w/
                                   acrylonitrile, the criteria of
                                   0.018 and 0.025 ug/l would
                                   both be replaced w/ 0.401
                                   ug/l
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                   Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                               June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                             13 13                                 Page 13 of 20



                                             Figure 5 (Continued)




                                                  WQBEL: For example, w/
                                                  acrylonitrile, the new
                                                  criteria of 0.401 ug/l
                                                  would result in limits of
                                                  0.7 ug/l and 1.0 ug/l



                                               Figure 6
                                  Example of Entering WQBEL Values




          Enter these values into
          “Effluent Limit” cells. Mass
          flow is calculated and
          determines if it would result in
          an increase. In this example
          there is a mass increase and
          additional work is required




3.3 Mass-based Criteria Review
Where the calculated effluent limits result in a mass load increase to the receiving waterbody, the permit
writer will need to iteratively adjust the effluent limits until there is no increase in mass. The worksheet
will calculate a criterion based on a “no increase in mass” (Figure 7).
                                              Figure 7
                            Example of Calculating “No-increase” Criterion



                                                             Since the use of Candidate Crit. Resulted
                                                             in a mass load increase, the worksheet will
                                                             auto-calculate a “mass-based” criterion.
                                                             Enter this value into the RPA Workbook to
                                                             calculate final effluent limits. See Figure 8

The permit writer will then need to re-enter the criterion into the active RPA workbook and calculate
another effluent limit. These limits should then be entered into the final section of the worksheet for a
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                                Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                                            June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                       14 14                                    Page 14 of 20



final confirmation that a mass increase will not occur (Figure 8).
                                                    Figure 8
                                Example of Entering “No-increase” Effluent Limits




The permit writer should be aware that when working with small values (i.e. <1), maintaining the number
of significant digits and rounding in the calculations can result in variation of the calculated mass loading,
subsequently impacting the criteria and effluent limit calculation. The permit writer should follow the
guidance in the IMD entitled The Use of Significant Figures and Rounding Conventions in Water Quality
Permitting. In the example above, there is a drift of 5.7 g/d between the initial mass load (18.9 g/d)
(Figure 3) and the mass load calculated from the effluent limits (13.2 g/d) (Figure 6). These two values
should be equal. When significant drift is noted, the permit writer should contact technical staff to identify
statistical, analytical or monitoring methodologies that can result in greater statistical precision.


4. SSBPC Implementation and Permit
  Renewal
Once the SSBPC calculations have been finalized, the resulting effluent limits must be included into the
draft permit renewal (Schedule A) along with the appropriate compliance monitoring requirements in
Schedule B. Additionally, the permit must require the permittee to maintain the operational requirements
throughout the permit term as described in Schedule D. If the permittee violates the operational
requirements during the permit term, the permit writer must follow the Enforcement Guidance applicable
to permit violations (which also describes a no-penalty justification process). In the event that the
operational requirements cannot be maintained, the permit must be re-opened and the SSBPC-based
effluent limit must be replaced with one based upon the original water quality criterion 18 . A note
describing the re-opener clause must be included with the limit in Schedule A, of the permit per OAR 340-
041-0033(6)(h). The finalized SSBPC and the underlying conditions used to develop it must be re-
evaluated as part of each subsequent permit renewal process.


5. Public Notification Requirements
If DEQ proposes to grant a site-specific background pollutant criterion, it must provide public notice of the
proposal and hold a public hearing (per OAR 340-041-0033(6)(i)(A)). The public notice may be included
in the public notification of a draft NPDES permit renewal or other draft regulatory decision that would
rely on the criterion. The public notice will consist of the draft NPDES permit and evaluation report

18
   When non-compliance with the operational conditions is determined, the permit writer has enforcement discretion, including
“no-enforcement” options. The permit writer should determine the cause and severity of the non-compliance when applying their
enforcement discretion. When there are multiple, successive periods of non-compliance that indicate that a significant change in the
collection area, facility or receiving waterbody has occurred, and the operational conditions can’t be reliably maintained, the permit
writer will need to re-open the permit and re-evaluate to address the significant changes.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                  Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                              June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                            15 15                                 Page 15 of 20



which includes the terms and conditions on which the SSBPC is based and for compliance with the
SSBPC.

Water quality standards staff will publish a list online of all site-specific background pollutant criteria
approved pursuant to this rule (per OAR 340-041-0033(6)(i)(B)). Newly approved SSBPCs will be added
to this list within 30 days of their effective date. The list will identify: the permittee; the site-specific
background pollutant criterion and the associated risk level; the waterbody to which the criterion applies;
the allowable pollutant effluent limits; and how to obtain additional information about the criterion.

The SSBPC will be effective upon department issuance of the permit. At the time of permit renewal, the
permit writer will reassess the applicability of a SSBPC for the term of the renewed permit.


6. DEQ Roles and Responsibilities
Regional permit staff are expected to be the primary implementers of this guidance through the
development of a SSBPC. Technical assistance is available from the Surface Water Management Section
at headquarters.

Since a SSBPC represents a change in the water quality criterion, the SSBPC, draft permit, evaluation
report and supporting information should be reviewed (for consistency with the rule) and approved by the
Water Quality Standards (WQS) section (located at headquarters) prior to submittal of the draft permit for
applicant review. Upon finalization of the permit, the permit writer will again notify the WQS section so
that they will post the addition of the SSBPC to the list of waters with a SSBPC. Any changes to the
SSBPC in later permits must also be reviewed by the WQS section.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD       Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                   June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                       16 16                           Page 16 of 20




Appendix A: Revision History

      Revision                        Date            Changes                  Editor
      Version 1.0                   6/1/2012      Initial Publication        S. Bohaboy
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                  Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                              June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                  17 17                           Page 17 of 20




Appendix B: Site-Specific Background
 Pollutant Criterion Rule Language
340-041-0033(6) Establishing Site-Specific Background Pollutant Criteria: This provision is a
performance based water quality standard that results in site-specific human health water quality criteria
under the conditions and procedures specified in this rule section. It addresses existing permitted
discharges of a pollutant removed from the same body of water. For waterbodies where a discharge does
not increase the pollutant’s mass and does not increase the pollutant concentration by more than 3%, and
where the water body meets a pollutant concentration associated with a risk level of 1x10-4, DEQ
concludes that the pollutant concentration continues to protect human health.

        (a) Definitions: For the purpose of this section (OAR 340-041-0033(6)):

                (A) “Background pollutant concentration” means the ambient water body concentration
                immediately upstream of the discharge, regardless of whether those pollutants are natural
                or result from upstream human activity.

                (B) An “intake pollutant” is the amount of a pollutant that is present in public waters
                (including groundwater) as provided in subsection (C), below, at the time it is withdrawn
                from such waters by the discharger or other facility supplying the discharger with intake
                water.

                (C) “Same body of water”: An intake pollutant is considered to be from the “same body of
                water” as the discharge if the department finds that the intake pollutant would have
                reached the vicinity of the outfall point in the receiving water within a reasonable period
                had it not been removed by the permittee. This finding may be deemed established if:

                         (i) The background concentration of the pollutant in the receiving water
                         (excluding any amount of the pollutant in the facility's discharge) is similar to that
                         in the intake water;

                         (ii) There is a direct hydrological connection between the intake and discharge
                         points; and

                                 (I) The department may also consider other site-specific factors relevant
                                 to the transport and fate of the pollutant to make the finding in a particular
                                 case that a pollutant would or would not have reached the vicinity of the
                                 outfall point in the receiving water within a reasonable period had it not
                                 been removed by the permittee.

                                 (II) An intake pollutant from groundwater may be considered to be from
                                 the “same body of water” if the department determines that the pollutant
                                 would have reached the vicinity of the outfall point in the receiving water
                                 within a reasonable period had it not been removed by the permittee,
                                 except that such a pollutant is not from the same body of water if the
                                 groundwater contains the pollutant partially or entirely due to past or
                                 present human activity, such as industrial, commercial, or municipal
                                 operations, disposal actions, or treatment processes.
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                  Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                              June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                  18 18                           Page 18 of 20



                         (iii) Water quality characteristics (e.g., temperature, pH, hardness) are similar in
                         the intake and receiving waters.

        (b) Applicability

                (A) Site-specific criteria may be established under this rule section only for carcinogenic
                pollutants.

                (B) Site-specific criteria established under this rule section apply in the vicinity of the
                discharge for purposes of establishing permit limits for the specified permittee.

                (C) The underlying waterbody criteria continue to apply for all other Clean Water Act
                programs.

                (D) The site-specific background pollutant criterion will be effective upon department
                issuance of the permit for the specified permittee.

                (E) Any site-specific criteria developed under this procedure will be re-evaluated upon
                permit renewal.

        (c) A site-specific background pollutant criterion may be established where all of the following
        conditions are met:

                (A) The discharger has a currently effective NPDES permit;

                (B) The mass of the pollutant discharged to the receiving waterbody does not exceed the
                mass of the intake pollutant from the same body of water, as defined in section (6)(a)(C)
                above, and, therefore, does not increase the total mass load of the pollutant in the
                receiving water body;

                (C) The discharger has not been assigned a TMDL wasteload allocation for the pollutant
                in question;

                (D) The permittee uses any feasible pollutant reduction measures available and known to
                minimize the pollutant concentration in their discharge;

                (E) The pollutant discharge has not been chemically or physically altered in a manner that
                causes adverse water quality impacts that would not occur if the intake pollutants were left
                in-stream; and,

                (F) The timing and location of the pollutant discharge would not cause adverse water
                quality impacts that would not occur if the intake pollutant were left in-stream.

        (d) The site-specific background pollutant criterion must be the most conservative of the following
        four values. The procedures deriving these values are described in the sections (6)(e) of this rule.

                (A) The projected in-stream pollutant concentration resulting from the current discharge
                concentration and any feasible pollutant reduction measures under (c)(D) above, after
                mixing with the receiving stream.

                (B) The projected in-stream pollutant concentration resulting from the portion of the
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                 Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                             June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                 19 19                           Page 19 of 20



                current discharge concentration associated with the intake pollutant mass after mixing
                with the receiving stream. This analysis ensures that there will be no increase in the mass
                of the intake pollutant in the receiving water body as required by condition (c)(B) above.

                (C) The projected in-stream pollutant concentration associated with a 3% increase above
                the background pollutant concentration as calculated:

                         (i) For the mainstem Willamette and Columbia Rivers, using 25% of the harmonic
                         mean flow of the waterbody.

                         (ii) For all other waters, using 100% of the harmonic mean flow or similar critical
                         flow value of the waterbody.

                (D) A criterion concentration value representing a human health risk level of 1 x 10-4. This
                value is calculated using EPA’s human health criteria derivation equation for carcinogens
                (EPA 2000), a risk level of 1 x 10-4, and the same values for the remaining calculation
                variables that were used to derive the underlying human health criterion.

        (e) Procedure to derive a site-specific human health water quality criterion to address a
        background pollutant:

                (A) The department will develop a flow-weighted characterization of the relevant flows
                and pollutant concentrations of the receiving waterbody, effluent and all facility intake
                pollutant sources to determine the fate and transport of the pollutant mass.

                         (i) The pollutant mass in the effluent discharged to a receiving waterbody may not
                         exceed the mass of the intake pollutant from the same body of water.

                         (ii) Where a facility discharges intake pollutants from multiple sources that
                         originate from the receiving waterbody and from other waterbodies, the
                         department will calculate the flow-weighted amount of each source of the
                         pollutant in the characterization.

                         (iii) Where intake water for a facility is provided by a municipal water supply
                         system and the supplier provides treatment of the raw water that removes an
                         intake water pollutant, the concentration and mass of the intake water pollutant
                         shall be determined at the point where the water enters the water supplier’s
                         distribution system.

                (B) Using the flow weighted characterization developed in Section (6)(e)(A), the
                department will calculate the in-stream pollutant concentration following mixing of the
                discharge into the receiving water. The resultant concentration will be used to determine
                the conditions in Section (6)(d)(A) and (B).

                (C) Using the flow weighted characterization, the department will calculate the in-stream
                pollutant concentration based on an increase of 3% above background pollutant
                concentration. The resultant concentration will be used to determine the condition in
                Section (6)(d)(C).

                         (i) For the mainstem Willamette and Columbia Rivers, 25% of the harmonic mean
Site Specific Background Pollutant Criteria IMD                   Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ12-WQ-0016-IMD                                                                               June 1, 2012
Revision 1.0                                                   20 20                           Page 20 of 20



                         flow of the waterbody will be used.

                         (ii) For all other waters, 100% of the harmonic mean flow or similar critical flow
                         value of the waterbody will be used.

                (D) The department will select the most conservative of the following values as the site-
                specific water quality criterion.

                         (i) The projected in-stream pollutant concentration described in Section 6(e)(B);

                         (ii) The in-stream pollutant concentration based on an increase of 3% above
                         background described in Section (6)(e)(C); or

                         (iii) A water quality criterion based on a risk level of 1 x 10-4.

        (f) Calculation of water quality based effluent limits based on a site-specific background pollutant
        criterion:

                (A) For discharges to receiving waters with a site-specific background pollutant criterion,
                the department will use the site-specific criterion in the calculation of a numeric water
                quality based effluent limit.

                (B) The department will compare the calculated water quality based effluent limits to any
                applicable aquatic toxicity or technology based effluent limits and select the most
                conservative for inclusion in the permit conditions.

        (g) In addition to the water quality based effluent limits described in Section (6)(f), the department
        will calculate a mass-based limit where necessary to ensure that the condition described in Section
        (6)(c)(B) is met. Where mass-based limits are included, the permit shall specify how compliance
        with mass-based effluent limitations will be assessed.

        (h) The permit shall include a provision requiring the department to consider the re-opening of the
        permit and re-evaluation of the site-specific background pollutant criterion if new information
        shows the discharger no longer meets the conditions described in subsections (6)(c) and (e).

        (i) Public Notification Requirements.

                (A) If the department proposes to grant a site-specific background pollutant criterion, it
                must provide public notice of the proposal and hold a public hearing. The public notice
                may be included in the public notification of a draft NPDES permit or other draft
                regulatory decision that would rely on the criterion and will also be published on the water
                quality standards website;

                (B) The department will publish a list of all site-specific background pollutant criteria
                approved pursuant to this rule. A criterion will be added to this list within 30 days of its
                effective date. The list will identify: the permittee; the site-specific background pollutant
                criterion and the associated risk level; the waterbody to which the criterion applies; the
                allowable pollutant effluent limit; and how to obtain additional information about the
                criterion.
