                                            Director’s Office


Operational Policy
Policy title:       Trauma-Informed Organization Policy

Policy number:      DHS 010-022

Original date:      12/02/2019                      Last update:     12/02/2019

Approved:           Don Erickson, Chief Administrative Officer


Purpose
The Department of Human Services (DHS) is committed to becoming a trauma informed
organization, building resiliency in agency staff and interacting with service recipients and one
another in a way that is aware of and responsive to the impact of trauma in the lives of individuals.
This commitment to trauma informed approach ensures that the agency is fulfilling its mission by
promoting healing and resiliency in children, adults and communities so that people, systems and
communities can function at their full capacity and potential. Trauma informed care practices and
building resiliency are critical to our workforce, our service recipients and all Oregonians.

Description
This policy and its related training, tools and resources create a framework to guide DHS in being a
trauma informed organization. This policy sets standards for all DHS programs as well as central and
shared services and sets minimum requirements for all staff training. This policy does not apply to
specific program area decisions or practices related to trauma informed service delivery, direct care
or specific program policies and procedures. Trauma informed practices and being a trauma informed
organization are in alignment with RiSE – DHS Organizational Culture and are foundational to the
RiSE elements.


Applicability
This policy applies to all DHS staff including employees, volunteers, trainees and interns.

As keepers of the public trust, all agency employees have a responsibility to comply with state and
agency policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. Employees who do not comply may
face discipline, up to and including dismissal from state service.

Policy
1. A trauma informed approach (TIA), also referred to as trauma informed care (TIC), is a model for
   organizational change in health, safety, independence, and other life outcomes that promotes
   resilience in staff and service recipients.
2. DHS is adopting an approach of presumed trauma. We will engage all staff and service recipients
   on the presumption that they have experienced trauma.

                                                      Page 1 of 3                             2019-1213
3. Resilience is:
    a. Creating positive outcomes in spite of an individual’s exposure to trauma.
    b. Preventing trauma recurrence even when an individual is at high risk for further exposure.
    c. Avoiding traumatic experiences altogether in the face of significant risk.
4. Individual trauma results from an event, series of events, or set of circumstances experienced by
    an individual as physically or emotionally harmful or life-threatening. These events have lasting
    negative effects on the individual’s functioning and mental, physical, social, emotional, or spiritual
    well-being.
    a. Historical trauma is the cumulative emotional harm of an individual or generation caused by a
        traumatic experience or events.
    b. Intergenerational trauma is a traumatic event or societal experience that began years prior to
        the current generation and has impacted the ways in which individuals within a family
        understand, cope with, and heal from trauma. Intergenerational trauma may include the
        impacts of living with or having a close relationship with an individual with trauma exposure or
        PTSD.
    c. Racial trauma or race-based traumatic stress is the cumulative effect of racism on an
        individual's mental and physical health. It has been linked to feelings of anxiety, depression,
        and suicidal ideations, as well as other physical health issues.
    d. Secondary or vicarious trauma is indirect exposure to trauma through a firsthand account or
        narrative of a traumatic event.
    e. Those coping with a disability, whether emotional or physical, have very similar physical and
        emotional and responses to those noted in subsection c in their unique experience of trauma.
5. DHS shall adopt a trauma informed care structure.
6. A trauma informed care structure is an organizational structure and treatment framework that:
    a. Involves understanding, recognizing, and responding to the effects of all types of trauma.
    b. Emphasizes physical, psychological and emotional safety for both consumers and providers,
    c. Helps survivors rebuild a sense of control and empowerment.
7. DHS shall use a trauma informed approach that is inclusive of all people, especially populations
    that have experienced historical and racial trauma.
8. The DHS trauma informed approach shall:
    a. Promote the awareness and understanding of trauma and its impacts on individuals and
        communities.
    b. Provide resources and training to support a trauma informed approach in all interactions,
        including with employees, service recipients, contractors, providers and partners.
    c. Create supportive environments by applying a trauma-informed lens in policy making, program
        development, facility decisions, and other organizational areas.
9. DHS shall incorporate trauma informed and resiliency approaches as part of policy-making and
    rule-setting.
10. DHS shall develop and use trauma informed human resources, management, and supervision
    strategies that are restorative and transformational rather than punitive, whenever possible.
11. DHS shall increase the use of trauma informed care principles and practices in services provided
    to various service populations and communities.
12. DHS staff shall receive training on trauma-informed approaches and resiliency on an annual
    basis.
13. DHS executives and managers shall model behaviors that are trauma informed.
14. DHS executives and managers shall pursue education and understanding in trauma informed care
    and create strategies for supporting the workforce in their own education and understanding of
    trauma informed care.
                                                      Page 2 of 3                             2019-1213
15. DHS executives and managers shall promote the intersections between a trauma informed
    approach and RiSE, DHS’s organizational culture.
16. DHS shall create and provide a forum for sharing trauma informed practices and initiatives that
    are in place across the agency.




References
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/lawsstatutes/2017hcr0033.pdf
https://www.traumainformedoregon.org
https://traumainformedoregon.org/roadmap-trauma-informed-care/screening-tool/
https://www.oregon.gov/DHS/DHSNEWS/Pages/DM-02-14-2019.aspx

Related policies

Contact
Angela Leet
ANGELA.LEET@dhsoha.state.or.us
971-707-3846

Don Erickson
DONALD.A.ERICKSON@dhsoha.state.or.us
503-884-8774


Policy history
Version 1 DHS only 12/02/2019

Keywords
Disabilities, disability, historic, intergenerational, race, racial, RiSE, resilience, secondary trauma,
trauma, trauma informed, trauma informed approach, trauma informed care, trauma informed
organization, trauma informed practice, vicarious trauma


This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with disabilities or
in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To request this document in
another format or language, contact the Publications and Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for
TTY, or email dhs-oha.publicationrequest@state.or.us.




                                                        Page 3 of 3                              2019-1213
