                                     Office of Human Resources



Process steps
Title:             ODHS 060-034-02 Reasonable Accommodation in Employment Process

Related to:        DHS|OHA 060-034

Effective date:    10/01/2020

Purpose
This document provides a process for Department of Human Services (DHS) employees with a
disability to request and receive a reasonable accomodation to be able to perform their essential job
functions. The reasonable accomodation process does not require that the agency accept less than
satisfactory performance of essential job functions.

This process may vary depending on the specific situation, and the necessary accommodations for
specific job functions. The Office of Human Resources may modify or adjust these steps as the
interactive process is conducted to meet the needs of the agency and the employee in ensuring
essential duties are performed.

Process
1. Definitions and a description of the interactive process can be found in the Oregon Department of
   Administrative Services (DAS) policy related to Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   accommodations DAS 50.020.10, and in tools associated with this process found in the reference
   section.
2. An accommodation is a change in the work environment related to a medical condition.
   a. Requests for changes to lighting or ergonomic features in an individual’s work area, regardless
      of whether those requests are related to a medical condition, do not necessarily have to be
      addressed as an ADA accommodation request and can be pursued through DHS|OHA 060-
      043 and DHS|OHA 080-012.
   b. The ADA accommodation request form DHS 3009 may be used but is not required to initiate
      the accommodation process.
3. The accommodation process is overseen by the Office of Human Resources (HR) and the DHS
   ADA Program Coordinator.
4. The ADA accommodation process is initiated when:
   a. An individual submits a written or verbal request for an accommodation to a manager,
      supervisor, member of the HR staff, or the ADA program coordinator.
   b. A manager or supervisor recognizes the potential need for an accommodation and reaches out
      to an individual.
   c. A third-party reaches out to a manager or supervisor about the need for an accommodation.
5. When a manager, supervisor, HR staff person, or ADA program coordinator receives a written
   request for accommodation the manager, supervisor, HR staff person, or ADA program
   coordinator:

                                               Page 1 of 4                   DHS 7465p (03/18)
    a. Begins form DHS 3001 for inclusion in the individual’s HR file.
    b. Provides a written acknowledgment to the individual within seven business days.
6. If an individual asks a manager or a supervisor for a change to the working environment, whether
    or not the change is related to a medical condition, the individual and the supervisor determine if
    the request should be:
    a. Managed through a process such as the ergonomic or lighting process.
    b. Managed using flex-time, alternate schedules, or work-from-home options.
    c. Provided through computer assistive technology that is readily available, such as screen
         reader software or time-out settings.
    d. Referred to human resources staff for HR participation in the ADA interactive accommodation
         process.
7. Within 10 days of receiving a request for a change to the work environment, the individual’s
    manager or supervisor either:
    a. Agrees with the individual on the process by which a request for change will be managed and:
         A. Works with the individual informally to provide changes to the work environment such as an
            ergonomic assessment or changes to lighting; and
         B. Completes the process within 30 calendar days; or
    b. Uses form DHS 3001 to refer the request to HR staff to start the interactive process.
         A. HR and the ADA program coordinator serve as a resource for managers and supervisors
            who need assistance determining whether changes in the work environment can be
            managed outside the ADA accommodation process.
         B. All requests for changes, whether resolved through a manager or supervisor-employee
            process or the ADA accommodation process involve an interactive, collaborative process.
8. Supervisors shall not request or accept individual medical records. Any request requiring access
    to medical records is referred to HR and the ADA program coordinator.
9. If the supervisor approves changes to an individual’s working environment such as ergonomic or
    lighting changes, or provides schedule accommodations or assistive software, the supervisor
    notifies HR as required by any other policies and notes the information in the supervisory file.
10. If the supervisor intends to deny a request for changes to an individual’s working environment,
    including ergonomic or lighting changes, the supervisor notifies HR staff and the ADA program
    coordinator of the intent to deny.
11. When HR and the ADA program coordinator are notified of either the intent to deny a change to
    an individual’s work environment or of receipt of an accommodation request, HR assigns the
    appropriate staff person to support the interactive accommodation process.
12. HR staff determine if a medical authorization form MSC 2099 should be requested from the
    employee and, if necessary, request that the employee sign and submit the form.
13. Individual submits a medical authorization form to HR staff, if requested.
    a. Information obtained from an individual’s medical provider is confidential information and
         protected by state and federal privacy laws, including HIPAA.
    b. HR tailors any request for medical information specifically to the need and requests the
         minimum information required to assess reasonable accommodations.
    c. Individuals are not required to sign a medical authorization, but HR staff may not be able to
         assess the full range of accommodation options if a medical authorization is not received.
14. If a temporary accommodation is available while the agency is pursuing the interactive process,
    the supervisor or HR staff implement and document the temporary accommodation.

                                                                                   DHS 7465p (03/18)
15. HR staff use the interactive process to:
    a. Communicate with the individual requesting accommodation, the individual’s medical
         providers, supervisor, and other subject matter experts related to the individual’s experience
         and available accommodations. Outside consultation shall be maintained at the minimal level
         required to assess available accommodations.
    b. Accept proposals for accommodations from the individual, the individual’s medical providers,
         supervisor, or other subject matter experts.
    c. Explore alternate accommodations if a requested accommodation includes one that cannot be
         provided, such as creation of a new position, removal of an essential function from the
         individual’s job responsibilities, or assignment of a new supervisor.
16. Within 30 calendar days, HR staff notify the individual of the status of the request or, using form
    DHS 3003, of the agency’s proposed accommodation or range of accommodations based on
    information gathered during the interactive process.
    a. DHS will consider the individual’s preference but may offer an accommodation that is most
         appropriate for the agency while meeting the individual’s needs.
    b. The 30 calendar days excludes days that the agency is waiting on a response from either the
         individual or their medical provider.
17. Within 7 calendar days, the individual accepts or rejects the offered accommodation, in writing, to
    the HR staff person involved in the interactive process.
18. Within 30 calendar days of receiving the individual’s acceptance of an accommodation, HR staff
    direct the implementation of accepted accommodations.
19. After using the accommodation and within 90 days from implementation, if an accommodation is
    not effective, the individual contacts their supervisor or the HR staff person to re-initiate the
    interactive process.
20. If the individual rejects the offered accommodation because the preferred accommodation was not
    approved, the individual may submit a written appeal to the agency HR director within 15 business
    days of the date on the proposed accommodation notice, including the specific grounds for
    disagreement with the proposed accommodation.
21. Within 15 business days of receiving an appeal, the HR director or the ADA program coordinator
    conducts a review and issues a final determination on accommodation.
22. If assistance equipment or devices are provided as part of an accommodation:
    a. Supervisor tracks all assistance equipment or devices using the MSC 0050 form.
    b. Assistance equipment or devices may be transferred if the individual is hired, promoted, or
         transfers to another state agency.
    c. If an individual transfers to another state agency, DHS|OHA may request reasonable
         compensation from that agency for assistance equipment or devices that transfer with them.
23. If HR, the ADA program coordinator and the individual are not able to identify a reasonable
    accommodation during the interactive process, HR notifies the individual using form DHS 3008
    and other options may be explored, including:
    a. Protected ADA leave.
    b. Reassignment.
    c. Medical separation.
    d. Medical retirement.
    e. Separation.
24. Only the DHS ADA Program Coordinator or the DHS HR Director may deny an accommodation
    request based on unreasonableness or undue hardship to the agency.
                                                                                   DHS 7465p (03/18)
References
Letter of Agreement 00.00-19-369
DHS|OHA 060-043 Ergonomics Policy
DHS|OHA 060-043-01 Ergonomics Process
DHS|OHA 080-012 Office Lighting Management Policy
DHS|OHA 080-012-01 Office Light Management Guide



Forms referenced
MSC 2099 Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Individual Information
DHS 2761 ADA Compliance Manual
DHS 3001 Accommodation Tracking Form
DHS 3002 ADA Interactive Process Checklist
DHS 3003 Accommodation Offer Letter Template
DHS 3008 Accommodation Determination Letter Template
DHS 3009 ADA Accommodation Request Form
MSC 0050 Employee Assigned Property Tracking

Related policies
DHS|OHA 060-043 Ergonomics Policy
DHS|OHA 080-012 Office Lighting Management

Contact
AUDRAY.D.MINNIEWEATHERCRUTCH@dhsoha.state.or.us

Keywords
Accommodate, accommodation, ableism, ADA, adjustments, American’s with Disabilities Act,
disabilities, disability, disabled, ergonomics, lighting, reasonable


This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with disabilities or
in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To request this document in
another format or language, contact the Publications and Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for
TTY, or email dhs-oha.publicationrequest@state.or.us.




                                                Page 4 of 4                   DHS 7465p (03/18)
