                                      DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                            Health Services

 Title:               Treatment Programs                               DOC Policy:      90.1.4
 Effective:           8/1/25                                           Supersedes:      3/29/16
 Applicability:       All functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
     Oregon Health Authority - Division 57
     Alternative Incarceration Programs - Division 62
     Inmate Communication and Grievance Review System - Division 109
     Structured, Intermediate Sanctions – Division 58
     Prohibited Inmate Conduct and Processing Disciplinary Actions – Division 105
     Correctional Case Management - DOC Policy 90.1.3
 Attachments:
     Attachment – Treatment Programs Eligibility and Screening Criteria
     Form – Notification AIP Failure (CD1691)
     Form – Notification Non-AIP Failure (CD1690)
     Form – Program Completion Exception Request (CD1722)

I.        PURPOSE

          The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for providing treatment program
          interventions that are designed to address criminal risk factors and reduce the risk of future
          criminal behavior.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A. Alternative Incarceration Program (AIP) Treatment: A highly structured corrections
             program that includes intensive treatment interventions. The program is a minimum of
             270 days and consists of a structured institution program and a period of up to 90 days of
             non-prison leave. Inmates must be statutorily eligible to participate in the program.

          B. Contract Service Providers (CSP): Agencies or individuals under contract with the
             Department of Corrections (DOC) to provide treatment program services.

          C. Program Designee: The Oregon Department of Corrections (DOC) employee assigned the
             responsibility for oversight of an institution program that is not provided by a contractor.

          D. Non-Prison Leave: A period of leave not to exceed 90 days preceding an established
             release date granted to inmates successfully completing the institution phase of an
             Alternative Incarceration Program. Non-prison leave is designed to provide inmates with
             transitional opportunities that promote successful reintegration into the community and


Effective 8/1/25                                Page 1 of 10                                Policy 90.1.4
             is granted in accordance with ORS 137.751, ORS 421.510, and the department’s rule on
             Alternative Incarceration Programs (OAR 291-062).

        E. Short-Term Transitional Leave: A period of leave not to exceed 90 days preceding an
           established release date designed to provide inmates with transitional opportunities that
           promote successful reintegration into the community. Short-term transitional leave shall
           be granted in accordance with ORS 421.168 and the department’s rule on Short-Term
           Transitional Leave and Emergency Leaves (OAR 291-063).

        F. Texas Christian University (TCU) Drug Screen II: A drug and alcohol assessment used to
           determine the level of dependency. The assessment translates to a SUBS rating in the
           Corrections Information System and is used to screen inmates for eligibility and placement
           into treatment programs.

        G. Treatment Assignment and Screening Committee (TASC): A multidisciplinary team
           comprised of unit stakeholders in the agency who are responsible for screening and
           referring inmates to treatment using standard criteria.

        H. Treatment Programs: The department’s treatment programs consist of intensive in-prison
           alcohol and other drug (A&D) treatment programs. The A&D treatment programs include
           both outpatient and residential programs which require a minimum number of
           therapeutic hours depending on the type of intervention provided.

III.    POLICY

        A. Programs Planning, Coordination, and Oversight

             1. The Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator shall have overall responsibility
                for the planning and coordination of all treatment programs throughout the
                department, overseeing the work of the unit.

             2. The Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator responsibilities shall include but
                are not limited to:

                   a. Planning for the department-wide placement of treatment programs;

                   b. Supervising the programs delivery systems through the administering and
                      monitoring of contracts with contract service providers;

                   c.   Establishing and maintaining eligibility criteria for addictions treatment programs;
                        and

                   d. Developing prioritization criteria to be followed when demand for programming
                      exceeds availability.


Effective 8/1/25                                  Page 2 of 10                                 Policy 90.1.4
        B. Program Standards

             Treatment programs shall address a wide range of individual issues including but not
             limited to motivation and stages of change, criminal thinking errors, relapse, triggers, and
             anger management and emotional regulation. Programs may emphasize the interference
             of addiction and criminality with basic life functioning.

             1. All A&D treatment programs shall comply with the requirements outlined in the
                Oregon Health Authority rule on Standards for Department of Corrections
                Prison-Based Alcohol and Other Drug Treatment Programs (OAR 415-057).

             2. Treatment programs shall utilize evidence-based curriculum and research-based
                practices in the delivery of program interventions.

             3. Treatment programs will be designed and implemented with an inmate accountability
                system including rewards and consequences related to requirement in the program.
                The social learning environment shall provide inmates with opportunities to practice
                pro-social skills.

             4. Institutions shall notify the Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator of any
                interruptions to treatment programs that extend beyond three days (i.e., power
                outage, weather event, lockdown, etc.). The Education, Training, and Treatment Unit
                will work with the treatment programs to modify treatment plans as needed.

             5. Treatment programs shall consist of 180 days. Inmates successfully completing the
                program will receive a certificate of completion from the contract service provider. To
                extend an inmate beyond the 180-day maximum program, an extension must be
                requested and approved as outlined in sections F.1. and G.1. for AIP and non-AIP
                respectively.

             6. Inmates spending less than 180 days in a treatment program, who are identified as
                successfully completing program requirements, may be granted an exception and
                receive a certificate of completion. Upon consultation with the contract service
                provider program manager, the Correctional Rehabilitation Manager, in collaboration
                with the contract service provider, shall submit a Program Completion Exception
                Request (CD #1722) to the Education, Training, and Treatment Unit Administrator or
                designee for approval. This applies to non-AIP only.

             7. Completion of Program: All institutions with treatment programs shall develop and
                maintain program completion standard criteria.

                   a. Program standards shall be defined in the contract agreements between the
                      Department of Corrections and the contract service provider.



Effective 8/1/25                               Page 3 of 10                                 Policy 90.1.4
                   b. Program standards will be reviewed with each institution correctional
                      rehabilitation manager by September 1 at the beginning of each biennium.

        C. Program Needs Assessment

             The department shall use evidence-based criminal risk factor assessments, treatment
             screening tools, as well as a variety of research-based methods to assess an inmate’s
             program needs for appropriate program placement.

        D. Programs Referrals, Eligibility Screening, and Placement

              1.     Institution counselors shall review case plans using established practices of
                     effective case management and refer inmates as appropriate to the Treatment
                     Assignment and Screening Committee (TASC).

              2.     The TASC shall:

                      a.   Include representation from institutions, the Education, Training, and
                           Treatment Unit, Behavioral Health Services, and Medical Services;

                      b.   Utilize a multidisciplinary team to screen and determine program eligibility
                           based on established eligibility criteria outlined in Attachment A; and

                      c.   Refer inmates to institutions for treatment and program placement.

              3.     The Office of Population Management shall:

                      a.   Establish and maintain a waiting list for institutions to ensure timely filling of
                           treatment beds; and

                      b.   Coordinate the transfer of inmates to institutions where the appropriate
                           treatment program is located.

              4.     Institutions shall prioritize placement of inmates into programs and keep the
                     Education, Training, and Treatment Unit and Office Population Management
                     informed of bed vacancies.

        E. Program Refusals from Inmates

             1. Inmates who are offered mandatory or required treatment programs must participate
                in programming as prescribed in their case plan. Those refusing to participate in a
                required program shall receive a program failure, which may result in failure to receive
                earned time credit.



Effective 8/1/25                                 Page 4 of 10                                   Policy 90.1.4
             2. Although program refusals generally occur prior to program entry, inmates voluntarily
                exiting from a required program within the first seven days of entry shall also be
                considered a program refusal for purposes of program outcome data. However, the
                program refusal will still result in a program failure and failure to receive earned time
                credit.

        F. Alternative Incarceration Program (AIP) Extensions, Suspensions, & Removals

             1. AIP Extensions: Two program extensions, up to 30 days each, may be granted to
                inmates in an AIP.

                   a. First 30-Day Extension

                      A. The contract service provider shall recommend a program extension to the
                         correctional rehabilitation manager or designee for final approval.

                      B. Within 24 hours of approval of the program extension, the contract service
                         provider’s program manager or correctional rehabilitation manager shall notify
                         the Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator via email of an inmate’s
                         program extension.

                      C. Within two business days of the correctional rehabilitation manager’s or
                         designee’s program extension approval, the contract service provider’s
                         program manager or, if the program is not provided by a contractor, the
                         department program designee, shall complete and send an extension
                         memorandum to the Correctional Rehabilitation Manager (with copies to the
                         Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator and institution counselor)
                         that contains, at a minimum:

                           i.   Inmate’s name;
                          ii.   Inmate’s SID number;
                         iii.   Institution;
                         iv.    Program name;
                          v.    Inmate’s program entry date;
                         vi.    Dates and description of significant events leading to the program
                                extension recommendation; and
                         vii.   Name and title of department employee approving program extension.

                   b. Second Program Extension

                      A second program extension requires final approval by the Education, Training, and
                      Treatment Administrator. To request such approval, the contract service provider
                      program manager (or, if the program is not provided by a contractor, the
                      department program designee), in collaboration with the correctional
                      rehabilitation manager, shall prepare a memorandum to the Education, Training,

Effective 8/1/25                                Page 5 of 10                                Policy 90.1.4
                      and Treatment Administrator recommending a second extension, which shall
                      include, at a minimum, the following information:

                      A. Inmate’s name;
                      B. Inmate’s SID number;
                      C. Institution;
                      D. Program name;
                      E. Inmate’s program entry date;
                      F. Date of first extension; and
                      G. Dates and description of significant events leading to the second program
                         extension recommendation.

             2. AIP Suspensions

                   a. Inmates participating in an AIP who become unavailable to substantially
                      participate in the program (e.g., physical and mental illness, court appearance,
                      disciplinary segregation) for up to 30 days following placement may be suspended
                      from the program and be evaluated by the institution correctional rehabilitation
                      manager to determine continued participation. Under these circumstances,
                      inmates shall be administratively removed from the program as described in
                      Section 3.a below.

                   b. Inmates who are reinstated and returned to the program within 30 days of
                      suspension are required to make up suspension days in order to meet the 180-day
                      requirement for the in-prison component of AIP.

                   c. Inmates who are not reinstated to the program within 30 days of suspension are
                      required to restart the program if they reenter at a later date.

             3. AIP Removals

                   a. Administrative Removals

                      Inmates unable to continue participation in their AIP, due to no fault of their own,
                      (e.g., medical or mental health reasons) may be administratively removed from a
                      program. An administrative removal shall be determined by the institution
                      correctional rehabilitation manager in collaboration with the contract service
                      provider program manager. Administrative removals will not prevent inmates from
                      future participation in treatment programs.

                   b. AIP Failures

                      A. Inmates may be removed from an AIP based on behavior expectations not
                         being met by the inmate (e.g., behavior problems, attitude, failure to progress,
                         and lacking engagement).

Effective 8/1/25                                Page 6 of 10                                 Policy 90.1.4
                     B. If an inmate must be removed immediately, the removal shall be determined
                        by the Correctional Rehabilitation Manager, or designee.

                     C. Removal from an AIP constitutes a program failure as recommended by the
                        contract service provider program manager and upon approval from the
                        Correctional Rehabilitation Manager and multidisciplinary team.

                     D. The removal must be recommended by the contract service provider and/or
                        institution counselor, approved by the multidisciplinary team, and the approval
                        accepted by the Correctional Rehabilitation Manager. The Correctional
                        Rehabilitation Manager shall notify the Education, Training, and Treatment
                        Administrator

                     E. Inmates who voluntarily exit (sign out) from an AIP after the first seven days of
                        participation shall be considered a program failure for the purposes of
                        outcome data and earned-time eligibility.

        G. Non-AIP Treatment Program Extensions, Suspensions, and Removals

             1. Treatment Program Extensions (Non-AIP)

                   Treatment Program Extensions (Non-AIP): Inmates participating in treatment
                   programs (non-AIP) who are approved for short-term transitional leave may be
                   granted 1 program extension of up to 30 days upon a joint recommendation from the
                   contract service provider program manager and institution correctional rehabilitation
                   manager. The contract service provider shall recommend a program extension to the
                   Correctional Rehabilitation Manager or designee for final approval.

                   a. Within 24 hours of approval of the program extension, the contract service
                      provider or correctional rehabilitation manager shall notify the Education,
                      Training, and Treatment Administrator via email of an inmate’s program
                      extension.

                   b. Within two business days of the correctional rehabilitation manager’s or
                      designee’s program extension approval, the contract service provider’s program
                      manager or, if the program is not provided by a contractor, the department
                      designee, shall complete and send an extension memorandum to the Correctional
                      Rehabilitation Manager (with copies to the Education, Training, and Treatment
                      Administrator and institution counselor) that contains, at a minimum:

                      A. Inmate’s name;
                      B. Inmate’s SID number;
                      C. Institution;
                      D. Program name;

Effective 8/1/25                                Page 7 of 10                                Policy 90.1.4
                       E. Inmate’s program entry date;
                       F. Dates and description of significant events leading to the program extension
                          recommendation;
                       G. Name and title of department employee approving program extension.


             2. Treatment Program Suspensions (Non-AIP)

                   Treatment Program Suspensions (Non-AIP): Inmates participating in treatment
                   programs (non-AIP) who become unavailable to substantially participate in the
                   program (e.g., physical and mental illness, court appearance, disciplinary segregation)
                   for up to 30 days following placement may be suspended from the program through
                   an administrative removal and be evaluated by the multidisciplinary team to
                   determine continued participation. Such an evaluation will occur only if enough time
                   remains on the inmate’s sentence for completion of the program upon reinstatement.
                   An extension to the suspension may be made by the functional unit manager, or
                   designee, on a case-by-case basis.


             3. Treatment Program Removals (Non-AIP)

                   a. Administrative Removals (Non-AIP): Inmates unable to continue participation in
                      their treatment program due to no fault of their own (medical or mental health
                      reasons, insufficient time left, etc.) may be administratively removed from the
                      program. An administrative removal shall be determined by the Correctional
                      Rehabilitation Manager in collaboration with the contract service provider
                      program manager. The Correctional Rehabilitation Manager shall notify the
                      Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator via email within 24 hours.
                      Administrative removals will not prevent inmates from future participation in
                      treatment change programs.

                   b. Treatment Program Failures (Non-AIP):

                      A. Inmates failing to progress in treatment programs shall be considered a
                         program failure. Program failures shall be recommended by the contract
                         service provider program manager to the multidisciplinary team and
                         correctional rehabilitation manager for final approval.

                      B. The contract service provider shall recommend a program failure to the
                         correctional rehabilitation manager or designee for final approval.

                      C. Within 24 hours of approval of the program failure, the contract service
                         provider or Correctional Rehabilitation Manager shall notify the Education,
                         Training, and Treatment Administrator via email.


Effective 8/1/25                                 Page 8 of 10                                Policy 90.1.4
                      D. Within two business days of the Correctional Rehabilitation Manager’s or
                         designee’s program failure approval, the contract service provider’s program
                         manager shall complete and send a program failure memorandum to the
                         institution correctional rehabilitation manager (with copies to the Education,
                         Training, and Treatment Administrator and institution counselor) that
                         contains, at a minimum:

                           i.   Inmate’s name;
                          ii.   Inmate’s SID number;
                         iii.   Institution;
                         iv.    Program name;
                          v.    Inmate’s program entry date;
                         vi.    Dates and description of significant events leading to the program failure
                                recommendation;
                         vii.   Name and title of department employee approving the program failure.

                   c. Inmates who voluntarily exit (sign out) from a non-AIP treatment program after
                      the first seven days of participation shall be considered a program failure for the
                      purposes of outcome data and earned-time eligibility.


        H. Program Failure Notification, Grievances, and Administrative Reviews

             1. Treatment Change Program Failure Notification to Inmates

                   a. AIP Failures: Institution counselors shall provide written notification to inmates
                      upon their removal from an AIP. Institution counselors shall complete the Notice
                      of Program Removal form CD1691 and present notice to the inmate as soon as
                      practicable following the program removal.

                   b. Non-AIP Failures: Inmates who receive a program failure from a non-AIP treatment
                      program will be notified in writing. Institution counselors and contract service
                      provider program manager or designee shall complete the program removal
                      notification using CD1690.

             2. Grievances for Treatment Non-AIP Failures: Inmates may file grievances regarding
                their failure from a non-AIP treatment program in accordance with the department’s
                rule on Inmate Communication and Grievance Review System (OAR 291-109).

             3. Administrative Reviews for AIP Failures: Inmates may request an administrative review
                of their failure from an AIP by submitting a written request to the Assistant Director of
                Offender Management and Rehabilitation in accordance with the department’s rule
                on Alternative Incarceration Programs (OAR 291-062).


Effective 8/1/25                                 Page 9 of 10                                Policy 90.1.4
        I. Non-Prison Leave and Short-Term Transitional Leave Failures

             Administrative sanctions and interventions may be imposed on inmates who violate AIP
             non-prison leave or short-term transitional leave. Administrative sanctions and
             interventions will be imposed in accordance with the department’s rule on Structured,
             Intermediate Sanctions (OAR 291-058). Additionally, for inmates whose violation of non-
             prison leave or short-term transitional leave results in their return to prison, a hearing
             shall be conducted and additional sanctions may occur in accordance with the
             department’s rule on Prohibited Inmate Conduct and Processing Disciplinary Actions (OAR
             291-105).

        J. Monitoring and Evaluation of Programs

             The Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator shall be responsible to monitor and
             evaluate program quality, adherence to evidence-based practices, and contractual
             compliance of the treatment programs.

IV.     IMPLEMENTATION

        This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: ______signature on file_________________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _____signature on file__________________
Michael Reese, Director




Effective 8/1/25                              Page 10 of 10                               Policy 90.1.4
                                                                                                            ATTACHMENT A
                                                                                            Treatment Programs Eligibility and Screening Criteria


                                                                                                                                    Criteria for Screening
                                          Serves                                                                 Must meet all the screening criteria on at least one line
                                               Non-                               Treatment
LOCATION              PROGRAM            AIP   AIP    Intervention   ACRS           Need                                       LS/CMI                                                            WRNA                                                   Notes
                                         X      X                    ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2/SUB3                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                        Medium/High WRNA score PLUS at least one of the
                                                                                                                                                                        following identified WRNA needs:
               Living in Freedom Today                 Outpatient
CCCM           (LIFT)                                  Treatment                SUB0 or
                                                                                                                                                                          • ≥4 Antisocial Attitudes
                                         X      X                    ≥ 0.15 a   No Assessment
                                                                                                                                                                          • ≥3 Antisocial Friends                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                          • ≥2 Family Conflict
                                                                                                                                                                          • ≥4 Relationships Difficulty
                                                                                                                                                                          • ≥6 Substance Abuse History
                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB3
                                                                                                                                                                        1. If overall WRNA score is medium or high and the
CCCM           Turning Point             X      X      Residential              SUB0                                                                                       Substance Abuse History is identified as a need (≥6),   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                       Treatment     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2                                                                                       rescore the TCU.
                                                                                No Assessment                                                                           2. If the rescored TCU results in a ≥3 SUB, meets
                                                                                                                                                                           screening criteria.
                                         X      b                    ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2/SUB3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                         X      b                    ≥ 0.15 a                   1.3 High/Very High Family/Marital (and Domestic Violence Offense)
               Recovery in Progress                                                                                                                                                                                                b
                                                       Outpatient                                                                                                                                                                      Priority is AIP placement; non-AIP
CRCI           (RIP)
                                         X      b                    ≥ 0.15 a   SUB0 or         1.6 High/Very High Drug and Alcohol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       placements will be reviewed on a case-by-
                                                       Treatment
                                         X      b                    ≥ 0.15 a   No Assessment   1.7 High/Very High Procriminal Attitude                                                                                                case basis.
                                         X      b                    ≥ 0.15 a                   1.8 High/Very High Antisocial Pattern

                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB3

CRCI           Turning Point                    X      Residential                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                       Treatment                SUB0
                                                                                                1. If 1.6 Drug & Alcohol is high or very high, rescore the TCU.
                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2
                                                                                                2. If the rescored TCU results in a ≥3 SUB, meets screening criteria.
                                                                                No Assessment

                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB3

DRCM           Phoenix Program                  X      Residential                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                       Treatment                SUB0
                                                                                                1. If 1.6 Drug & Alcohol is high or very high, rescore the TCU.
                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2
                                                                                                2. If the rescored TCU results in a ≥3 SUB, meets screening criteria.
                                                                                No Assessment

OSCI           Freedom in Recovery              X      Outpatient    ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2/SUB3                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                       Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB3                                                                                                                                                   See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   b
PRCF           New Directions            X      b      Residential                                                                                                                                                                     Priority is AIP placement; non-AIP
                                                       Treatment                SUB0                                                                                                                                                   placements will be reviewed on a case-by-
                                                                                                1. If 1.6 Drug & Alcohol is high or very high, rescore the TCU.
                                                                     ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2
                                                                                                2. If the rescored TCU results in a ≥3 SUB, meets screening criteria.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       case basis.
                                                                                No Assessment

SCI            Turning Point                    X      Outpatient    ≥ 0.15 a   SUB2/SUB3                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See Low-ACRS Exception Criteria
                                                       Treatment

                                                                                  See following page for low-ACRS exception criteria and additional information


       Programs Policy – Attachment A                                                                                           Page 1                                                                                                                             03/28/16
a Low-ACRS Exception Criteria that may be Considered

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Then           Then
                                If                                 and Overall                                                     and Overall        and the WRNA has one or                                                Eligible for   Eligible for
 At Least One of the        Inmate               Treatment        LS/CMI Score         and if One of the LS/CMI Domains            WRNA Score           more of the following                                                Residential    Outpatient
      Following               is…    ACRS          Need               is…                              is…                            is …               Identified needs…                Then do the following…             Treatment      Treatment
                                                                                     1.7 High/Very High Pro-criminal Attitude                                                                                                                    X
                                               SUB0 or
                                               No Assessment
                                                                 High/Very High      1.8 High/Very High Antisocial Pattern                                                                                                                       X
                             Male    ≤ 0.14
                                                                                     1.6 High/Very High Drug & Alcohol                                                             Rescore the TCU and if TCU = 3 or above        X
                                               SUB2/SUB3         High/Very High                                                                                                                                                   X
• Repeat DUII
                                                                                                                                                     ≥4 Antisocial Attitudes                                                                     X
• Extensive Out-of-
                                                                                                                                                     ≥3 Antisocial Friends                                                                       X
  State History                                                                                                                    Medium/High
                                               SUB0 or
                                               No Assessment
                                                                                                                                                     ≥2 Family Conflict                                                                          X
                            Female   ≤ 0.14
                                                                                                                                                     ≥4 Relationships Difficulty                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                   Medium/High       ≥6 Substance Abuse History    Rescore the TCU and if TCU = 3 or above        X
                                               SUB2/SUB3                                                                           Medium/High                                                                                    X
                                                                                     1.3 High/Very High Family/Marital                                                                                                                           X
                                               SUB0 or                               1.7 High/Very High Pro-criminal Attitude                                                                                                                    X
                                               No Assessment
                                                                 High/Very High
                             Male    ≤ 0.14                                          1.8 High/Very High Antisocial Pattern                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                     1.6 High/Very High Drug & Alcohol                                                             Rescore the TCU and if TCU = 3 or above        X
                                               SUB2/SUB3         High/Very High                                                                                                                                                   X
• Assault IV (Domestic
  Violence)                                                                                                                                          ≥4 Antisocial Attitudes                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                     ≥3 Antisocial Friends                                                                       X
                                               SUB0 or                                                                             Medium/High
                                               No Assessment
                                                                                                                                                     ≥2 Family Conflict                                                                          X
                            Female   ≤ 0.14
                                                                                                                                                     ≥4 Relationships Difficulty                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                   Medium/High       ≥6 Substance Abuse History    Rescore the TCU and if TCU = 3 or above        X
                                               SUB2/SUB3                                                                           Medium/High                                                                                    X




  Notes:                                                                                                 Acronyms:
   • Inmate with mental health issues may be served on a case-by-case basis as approved by BHS.             ACRS =       Automated Criminal Risk Score at time of TASC review
   • Inmate scoring 6 or higher on the Static-99 shall be excluded from treatment.                          AIP    =     Alternative Incarceration Program
   • SUB rating is derived from TCU Drug Screen II assessment.                                              BHS =        Behavioral Health Services
                                                                                                            WRNA =       Women’s Risk Needs Assessment




    Programs Policy – Attachment A                                                                                               Page 2                                                                                                              03/28/16
              Oregon                                                   Oregon Department of Corrections
                                                                    Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division
                                                                                             2575 Center Street, NE
                                                                                            Salem, OR 97301-4667
                Kate Brown, Governor                                                    Telephone: (503) 945-9055
                                                                                               Fax: (503) 373-1173


                                       NOTICE OF NON-AIP FAILURE

Date:         July 25, 2025

To:           Inmate Name, SID # Inmate’s SID

From:         First initial and last name of CRM
              Select Institution Name

Subject:      Program Failure


This memorandum is to notify you of your program failure from the Type out name of the program
program on select date.

The reason for your program failure is as follows:

      Provide basis for program failure and removal from the AIP.

If you disagree with the program failure decision, you are encouraged to resolve the issue through
informal communications/kytes. If you are unable to resolve the issue through information
communications and the program failure is not a direct result of a misconduct report where you were
found in violation, you are entitled to request a review of the decision by submitting a written
grievance using the department’s approved inmate grievance form. In accordance with Oregon
Administrative Rule 291-109-0140, you must submit a grievance form (CD#117) to the institution
grievance coordinator using the locally established processes for reconsideration of the program
failure decision.




 First initial and last name of CRM                                         Date
 Select Institution Name

xc: Superintendent
    Correctional Rehabilitation Manager
    Type out name of the program Program Manager
    Addictions Treatment Services Coordinator




                                                                                            CD 1690 - 05/05/16
              Oregon                                                   Oregon Department of Corrections
                                                                    Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division
                                                                                             2575 Center Street, NE
                                                                                            Salem, OR 97301-4667
                Kate Brown, Governor                                                    Telephone: (503) 945-9055
                                                                                               Fax: (503) 373-1173


                                       NOTICE OF AIP FAILURE

Date:         July 25, 2025

To:           Inmate Name, SID # Inmate’s SID

From:         First initial and last name of CRM
              Select Institution Name

Subject:      Program Failure


This memorandum is to notify you of your removal and failure from the Type out name of the AIP
alternative incarceration program (AIP) on select date.

The reason for your program failure is as follows:

      Provide basis for program failure and removal from the AIP.

Once you have been removed from an AIP as a program failure, you are ineligible to participate in
another AIP during the same custody cycle. If the program failure is from an addictions AIP, you are
ineligible to participate in any other alcohol and drug treatment program during the same custody
cycle (this does not include dual-diagnosis programs).

If you disagree with the program failure decision, you are entitled to request an administrative review
of the decision in accordance with Oregon Administrative Rule 291-062-0150(6). To request a
review, please send your written request for administrative review to the Assistant Director of the
Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division, together with any supporting documentation, to
the following address:

          Oregon Department of Corrections
          Assistant Director
          Offender Management and Rehabilitation
          2575 Center Street, N.E.
          Salem, OR 97301

The OMR Division Assistant Director must receive the request within fifteen (15) calendar days of the
date of this program failure notice.




 First initial and last name of CRM                                         Date
 Select Institution Name

xc: Superintendent
    Correctional Rehabilitation Manager
    Type out name of the AIP Program Manager
    Addictions Treatment Services Coordinator




                                                                                            CD 1691 - 05/05/16
            Oregon                                                     Oregon Department of Corrections
                                                                    Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division
                                                                                             2575 Center Street, NE
                                                                                            Salem, OR 97301-4667
              Kate Brown, Governor                                                      Telephone: (503) 945-9055
                                                                                               Fax: (503) 373-1173


                         PROGRAM COMPLETION EXCEPTION REPORT

Date:        July 25, 2025

To:          Dawnell Meyer, Education, Training, and Treatment Administrator
             Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division

From:        Correctional Rehabilitation Manager
             Select Institution Name

Subject:     Program Completion Exception Report
             Inmate: Inmate Name
             SID#:   Inmate’s SID



REQUEST:

Inmate Inmate Name participated in the type in name of program for less than 180 days, yet has
completed program requirements and demonstrated the necessary behavioral changes to be considered
a successful program completer. Below is the reason for the shortened treatment duration and the
specific explanation describing the inmate’s success in the program.

Reason for Shortened Treatment Duration: click here to enter text

Explanation Describing Inmate’s Program Success: click here to enter text




DECISION:


  ☐ Approved

  ☐ Denied       Denial Reason:



  Dawnell Meyer, Administrator                         Date
  Education, Training, & Treatment Unit



xc: Addictions Treatment Services Coordinator




                                                                                            CD 1722 - 05/05/16
