                   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS

                   Chief Financial Office

                   Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production
 Title:                                                            DOC Policy: 30.1.9
                   (LEAP)

 Effective:        1/20/2023                                            Supersedes: N/A

 Applicability:    Financial Services and Institutions

 Directives Cross-Reference:
         Oregon Accounting Manual
         Workforce Development Education Programs - Division 113
         Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production (LEAP)- Division 172
         Trust Accounts (AIC) - Division 158
         Code of Conduct - Policy 20.1.3
         Accounting-Control of Funds - Policy 30.1.1
         Checks, Warrants and Vouchers (Issuance) - Policy 30.1.2
         Receipting, Securing and Depositing Funds - Policy 30.1.3
         State P-Card (SPOTS) Card Program - Policy 30.3.2
         Contracts Administration - Policy 30.3.3

 Attachments:
       Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production (LEAP) Business Plan Proposal
          LEAP Program Participation Agreement

I. PURPOSE


    The purpose of this policy is to document Department of Corrections (DOC) policies, processes, and
    procedures for facilitating a Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production (LEAP) Program in which
    adults in custody (AICs) produce and sell handmade goods to generate personal funds.


II. DEFINITIONS

    A. Administrative Trust Account (Central Trust): An account created and approved by Central Trust
       that is located in the AIC financial system. This type of account may be used for club accounts,
       group activities, or special interest groups, and are not associated with an individual State
       Identification Number (SID). Rule establishing policies and procedures for the creation and
       administration of AIC trust accounts, and safeguarding AIC funds used for authorized expenditures
       and assessments during incarceration or in anticipation of release can be found in OAR 291-158
       Trust Accounts (AIC).




 Effective: 1/20/2023                         Page 1 of 9                                 Policy 30.1.9
 B. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of DOC who is not on parole, post-prison
    supervision, or probation status.

 C. Approved vendor: A vendor, approved by a DOC facility that is participating in a LEAP Program,
    that is allowed to send, through specified DOC procedures, raw materials, supplies, or tools to
    AICs participating in a LEAP Program in order for them to produce and sell handmade goods.

 D. Customer: Any person or organization soliciting an arrangement of services or goods that can or
    may be provided through a work program, LEAP Program, or work-based education program.
    Examples are DOC staff, the public, other agencies, internal DOC units, and outside entities.

 E. Department of Corrections facility: Any institution, facility, or staff office, including the grounds,
    operated by the Department of Corrections.

 F. E-Commerce portal: A department-approved internet website that allows for the purchase of
    products created by an AIC LEAP participant or DOC created goods.

 G. Expense: Something expended, frequently money, to secure a benefit or bring about a result.

 H. Event Pass Through Account (EPTA): An administrative trust account that is created and approved
    by Central Trust, located in the AIC financial system, that acts as a temporary holding account for
    club fundraising events and at-cost events (whether sponsored by a club or not). An EPTA should
    be used for any situation that necessitates a SPOTS purchase on behalf of an AIC. Funds collected
    from AICs are placed into this account until expenses and revenue (if applicable) are reconciled
    and distributed.

 I.   Functional unit: Any organizational component within the Department of Corrections responsible
      for the delivery of services or coordination of programs.

 J.   Functional Unit Manager (FUM): Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports
      to either the Director, Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an Administrator and has
      responsibility for the delivery of program services or coordination of program operations. In an
      institution, the superintendent is the FUM.

 K. Handiwork products: Craftwork or items that are made from raw materials purchased by the AIC
    LEAP Program participant in an approved LEAP Program. Common products include but are not
    limited to jewelry, woodworking, metal creations, greeting cards, etc.

 L. Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production (LEAP) Program: A program that authorizes an
    AIC to operate a sole proprietorship in which the AIC may create handmade products using their
    own resources, artistic talents, and skills, and to then sell those products to customers within the
    State of Oregon. See also OAR 291-172 LEAP – Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts and Production
    for the authority and guidelines established for LEAP programs.

 M. LEAP Program Supervisor: DOC manager responsible for the overall operation of a LEAP program.

 N. Market-based pricing: A price established for a product created in the LEAP Program that is based
    on: the actual cost of materials used to create the product, the estimated or actual labor cost to



Effective: 1/20/2023                         Page 2 of 9                                   Policy 30.1.9
     create the product (determined by multiplying the estimated or actual number of hours by the
     state minimum wage rate), other overhead incurred to create the product, and any additional
     markup so as to not be sold below market value.

 O. Merchant identification number: A unique number provided by the State Treasury and credit card
    industry for processing credit card transactions.

 P. Net profit: Revenue(s) minus transactional expense(s) and fee(s), including but not limited to
    credit card merchant fees.

 Q. Office of the Chief Financial Officer: Section of the department that provides support services to
    all levels of the department through Financial Operations and Financial Services. Financial units
    that are relevant to this policy include:
     1. Business Services: A functional unit within the Financial Services Division that places
        employees in larger institutions and provides satellite accounting and other fiscal services.
        This unit acts as a liaison between the department’s Operations Division and the Office of the
        CFO.
     2. Central Accounting: A functional unit of the Financial Operations Division that records all
        financial transactions outside of the AIC financial system and is the custodian of the
        department’s fiscal records.
     3. Central Trust: A functional unit within Financial Services that is responsible for administering
        and managing AIC trust accounts; including making authorized transactions to AIC trust and
        administrative trust accounts in compliance with Oregon Administrative Rules and federal or
        state statutes.
     4. Statewide Financial Programs: A functional unit within Financial Services that is responsible
        for the oversight of all Other Funded programs specific to AIC revenue generating activities
        and programs. This unit provides guidance towards best business practices with an emphasis
        on fiduciary accountability. This includes developing policies and procedures, training
        employees, ensuring financial integrity, providing technical assistance, and monitoring and
        auditing compliance with applicable Oregon Administrative Rules, federal and state statutes,
        and DOC policies.


 R. Participating facility: Correctional facilities approved by the Assistant Director of Operations and
    the Chief Financial Officer to operate a LEAP Program.

 S. Program fee: Any fee that is charged to an AIC LEAP participant that is related to participation in
    a LEAP Program. These fees are to assist with offsetting costs incurred by DOC to operate a LEAP
    Program within a Department of Corrections facility and to provide AIC LEAP participants an
    opportunity to pay business expenses normally associated with operating a business that they
    would have to pay for directly if their business was not inside a Department of Corrections facility.
    Program fees may consist of the following:

     1. Bench fee: A program fee charged to an AIC LEAP participant to have access to and use a
        bench and associated workspace.
     2. E-Commerce portal fee: A program fee assessed to the AIC LEAP participant associated with
        the cost of processing e-commerce sales of handiwork products.


Effective: 1/20/2023                         Page 3 of 9                                  Policy 30.1.9
       3. Other miscellaneous fee: A program fee assessed to the AIC LEAP participant in order to
          reimburse DOC for business expenses (example: postage).

    T. Revenue: Money generated from the sale of goods or services.

    U. State P-Card of Oregon Transaction System (SPOTS): A state-sponsored credit card that agencies
       may use to procure and pay for goods and services.


III. POLICY
    A. General

        1. Selected AICs within participating facilities may be allowed to create and sell or otherwise
           dispose of items of authorized handiwork products through approved channels.
        2. The price of handiwork products for sale will be market-based. ORS 421.405 prohibits officers
           and employees of the state from receiving the use or profit of the labor or services of any AIC.
        3. AIC LEAP participants purchase all raw materials, supplies, and tools used for the creation of
           handiwork products, receive the net profits from any sales of those handiwork products, and
           reimburse DOC for state costs associated with the creation of handiwork products and
           operation of the LEAP Program.


    B. LEAP Program
         1. Program Development

                a. A Learning Entrepreneurship, Arts, and Production (LEAP) business plan proposal must
                   be completed and approved by the FUM, Operations Division, and the Office of the
                   CFO or those designated before starting a new program. In addition, the following
                   guidelines, considerations, and requirements shall be addressed by the business plan:

                         Potential liability, specialized AIC labor training, and product safety.
                         Whether operational capacity, staff, space, and AIC labor is available and is
                          approved by the Assistant Director of Operations.
                          How AICs are assessed on their ability to be successful entrepreneurs.

                b. If an E-Commerce portal solution is desired the following will occur prior to using an
                    online store:

                         A change order will be created through the DOC Procurement and Contracts unit
                          with a State Treasury approved credit card processing vendor. See DOC Policy
                          30.3.3 Contracts Administration.
                          1. Credit card merchant identification numbers will be established through the
                             State Treasurer’s Office.




  Effective: 1/20/2023                         Page 4 of 9                                  Policy 30.1.9
                        2. LEAP Program Supervisor or designee will work with Statewide Financial
                           Programs unit to modify the online store template.
                        3. Appropriate accounts to manage the LEAP Program will be established with
                           Central Trust and Central Accounting.
                        4. The DOC Information Security Officer (ISO) will be notified of any creation,
                           modification or deletion of merchant accounts and e-commerce portals for
                           the purpose of PCI-DSS adherence and attestation.
       2. Records Management

             a. The Office of the CFO will be responsible for approving the processes and procedures
                used to document, track and control the financial activities of DOC LEAP Programs. See
                DOC Policy 30.1.1 Accounting – Control of Funds.
             b. Statewide Financial Programs will audit and oversee the financial accounting of LEAP
                Programs.
             c. Records must be maintained for audit purposes in accordance with records retention
                policies and the Secretary of State’s retention schedule.
             d. Records must be maintained by DOC staff regarding money management and
                accounting reconciliation.
             e. If an e-commerce portal is used, appropriate credit card fee reconciliation, deposits to
                AIC accounts and if relevant, SPOTS card reimbursements shall be coordinated through
                Central Trust and Central Accounting.
             f. Ultimate responsibility for completeness and accuracy of record keeping lies with the
                LEAP Program Supervisor.
             g. LEAP Program accounts and transactions will be reconciled with Central Trust and
                Central Accounting records monthly, with reconciliation reports printed and stored for
                audit purposes.
             h. The LEAP Program Supervisor should meet with the Statewide Financial Programs unit,
                as needed, to assure processes and controls are operating as intended. Quarterly, the
                CFO or designee shall prepare a summary of accounts for distribution to key
                stakeholders including the FUM.

       3. Standards and Protocols

             a. All AICs participating in a LEAP Program will be provided a LEAP program participation
                agreement to be reviewed and signed annually, which covers the following:

                       Program description
                       Notification process for changes to the program
                        Program eligibility
                        Conduct and appearance
                       Business registration requirements and agents
                        Limitations
                         Program fee structure




Effective: 1/20/2023                          Page 5 of 9                                Policy 30.1.9
                        1.   Bench and crafting space fee
                        2.   E-commerce portal fees (if applicable)
                        3.   Additional fees as required (i.e., equipment rental)
                          Ordering raw materials, supplies and tools protocol
                        Limitations on crafting trade
                       If applicable, website/online store use
                        Taxes
                         Tools, special equipment, and safety requirements
                          Vendor approval process
                          Pricing standards
                         Shipping standards
                          Bench and workspace standards
                          Copyrights/trademark compliance
                           Consignments
                         Inventory control
                         Bookkeeping and Central Trust balance requirements
                         LEAP program hours of operation
                          Leaving the program or removal standards
                           AIC LEAP Program participant complaint and resolution procedures
                           Terms and conditions
                          AIC LEAP Program participant agreement signature page

             b. All orders shall be facilitated by the LEAP Program Supervisor or designee.
             c. Program performance and sustainability should be reviewed annually.
             d. Program fees to cover LEAP Program costs may be assessed to the AIC LEAP
                participant. The LEAP Program Supervisor is responsible for oversight of the collection
                of program fee payments.

                       Program fees shall be paid by the AICs monthly through a Request for Withdrawal
                        of Funds.

             e. SPOTS cards may be used to purchase raw materials, supplies, and tools for the AIC
                LEAP participant. In accordance with DOC Policy State P-Card (SPOTS) Card Program
                30.3.2, no SPOTS purchases may be made on behalf of an AIC until full payment has
                been made to the institution’s LEAP Program EPTA. See also DOC Policy Checks,
                Warrants and Vouchers (Issuance) 30.1.2 for guidance on SPOTS reconciliation
                submission.
             f. If non-e-commerce portal sales are made during non-business days (such as a weekend
                flea market, art fair, or other public sales event), all proceeds and receipts must be
                delivered to the Business Office, or designee, at the start of the next business day for
                reconciliation. All sales involving cash must be in accordance with the Oregon
                Accounting Manual (OAM 10.20.00). Staff must have both a beginning inventory and
                beginning cash itemized prior to start of sale for reconciliation at the conclusion of the




Effective: 1/20/2023                           Page 6 of 9                                 Policy 30.1.9
                sale. All funds shall be properly secured in accordance with OAM money handling
                requirements.
             g. If an institution has been approved for AIC-to-AIC sales, the institution may allow AICs
                within 30 days of release to make purchases to be included in their property at release.
             h. All customers shall pay market-based price on all items purchased from the LEAP
                Program.
             i. The LEAP Program Supervisor or designee has discretion to approve fluctuating
                product pricing based on special considerations; to include large quantity orders or
                other special circumstances. Staff members shall not receive reduced pricing for
                individual purchases without prior approval from the LEAP Program Supervisor or
                designee.
             j. DOC staff are reminded that they cannot receive a benefit from their employment in
                accordance with DOC Policy Code of Conduct 20.1.3 and must not cause undue
                influence over AIC LEAP participants.
             k. The AIC LEAP participant shall not replicate or reproduce images or items in a manner
                that violates the intellectual property rights (including, but not limited to, copyright,
                patent, or trademark).
             l. When new staff are assigned to the LEAP Program, it will be required that they receive
                training from the Statewide Financial Programs unit.

       4. LEAP Program Sales Procedures – Other than E-Commerce Portal

             a. Department Facilitated Sales

                       Receiving Payment
                        1. Only approved payment methods will be accepted. Payment methods will be
                           approved by the CFO or designee.
                        2. Upon receipt of payment, the Business Office or designee will issue a serially
                           numbered receipt to the customer. This number will be notated on a LEAP
                           order form. See DOC Policy 30.1.3 Receipting, Securing and Depositing Funds.
                        3. A LEAP order form will be marked paid, and a copy of that form will be
                           scanned to the LEAP Program Supervisor or designee.
                        4. The Business Office or designee will forward payment to Central Trust, who
                           will deposit the money on to the AIC Trust Account.

             b. Delivery of Product

                       The LEAP Program Supervisor or designee will determine when the item will be
                        available and will contact the customer to arrange for pick-up if the item is not
                        being mailed to the customer. This may coincide with the time of payment if the
                        item is available immediately.
                       The LEAP Program Supervisor or designee will verify the customer’s receipt with a
                        LEAP order form before giving the handiwork to the customer.




Effective: 1/20/2023                           Page 7 of 9                                Policy 30.1.9
                        Items marked for customer pick-up will be designated as abandoned if they are
                        not picked up within 60 days. Abandoned products will be returned to the AIC
                        LEAP participant’s inventory. Payment will not be refunded.

             c. Custom Orders

                       Payment and product delivery procedures are the same as department facilitated
                        sales.
                       Approval of Custom Orders
                        1. LEAP Program Supervisor or designee must approve or deny all custom
                           orders.
                        2. Denied Orders
                           a.   An explanation for why the order was denied will be notated on the
                                order form by the LEAP Program Supervisor or designee.
                           b.   LEAP Program Supervisor or designee will make a copy of the denied
                                order form for program records.
                           c.   Order form and payment, if received, will be returned to the customer.
                        Canceled Orders
                           a.   In the event there is a need to cancel a custom order for unforeseen
                                circumstances which may include: supply chain disruptions, alternative
                                program operations, errors, etc., an explanation for why the order was
                                canceled will be notated on the order form by the LEAP Program
                                Supervisor or designee.
                           b.   LEAP Program Supervisor or designee will make a copy of the canceled
                                order form for program records.
                           c.   Order form and payment, if received, will be returned to the customer.
       5. LEAP Program Sales Procedures – Using E-Commerce Portal

             a. Orders:

                       Each online store will be uniquely identified by the institution and program. The
                        store will maintain a unique merchant identification number for processing credit
                        card orders.
                       All products must be identified, and market-based pricing established prior to the
                        sale of online LEAP program goods or services.
                        Each product will be given a product number that will be unique to the institution,
                        the program, and AIC LEAP participant. The identity of the AIC participant shall
                        not be revealed to the customer.
                        The LEAP Program supervisor or designee shall create, update, and maintain the
                        online sales catalogue.
                       The LEAP Program supervisor or designee shall oversee the processing of orders.
                        Daily reconciliation of sales shall occur.



Effective: 1/20/2023                           Page 8 of 9                                  Policy 30.1.9
                         Custom order protocol will be identified on the online store website and strictly
                         adhered to.
                         Online stores have a strict no return policy. Rare exceptions may be made by the
                         LEAP program supervisor.
                          Appropriate shipping and order pick up protocol will be followed to maintain
                         safety and security of the institution.
         6. Work Based Education (WBE) Program

               a. LEAP programs are not a WBE program. Refer to Work-based Education (WBE) Training
                  Programs, OAR 291-113-0021 for details on WBE programs.



IV. IMPLEMENTATION
   This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


 Certified: _____signature on file____________________________

 Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator



 Approved: ____signature on file_____________________________

 Heidi Steward, Acting Director




  Effective: 1/20/2023                         Page 9 of 9                                 Policy 30.1.9
