                                        DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                          Employee Services Division


Title:                    Professional Development Training                  DOC Policy: 20.7.1
Effective:                12/21/22                                           Supersedes: 07/01/20
Applicability:        All DOC staff
Directives Cross-Reference:
       DOC Policy 20.1.3 Code of Conduct
        DOC Policy 20.1.6 Dress Code
        DOC Policy 20.1.7 Promotion and Maintenance of a Respectful Workplace
        ORS 181.610 to 181.712
        OAR 259 Division 008
Attachments:
      Attachment A – Attendance, Remediation and Training Hold
      Attachment B – BCC Firearms Qualification & Remediation
      Attachment C- Pistol Qualification Course (PQC)

    I. PURPOSE

         The Department of Corrections (DOC) places a high value on the development, facilitation,
         and coordination of training opportunities for each employee by investing in their
         professional development and equipping them with the training to do their work. It is the
         purpose of this policy to describe the training programs offered to employees to enhance
         their knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform their job duties, and to comply with state,
         federal, and department policies and mandates.

    II. DEFINITIONS

         A. Approved Training: Any training material that has been reviewed and approved by the
            Professional Development Unit (PDU) Administrator or designee prior to the training
            event and entered in the Learning Management System (LMS).

         B. Adjunct Instructor: An individual, including volunteer or loaned personnel, who is
            employed or utilized by Department of Corrections for training and is not a permanent
            staff member of the Professional Development Unit and may also be referred to as a
            trainer or facilitator.

         C. Basic Corrections Course (BCC): Basic Corrections Course (BCC): BCC prepares new
            security applicants to perform their duties and receive State Correctional Officer
            Certification from the Oregon Department of Public Safety Standards and Training
            (DPSST) within the context of the mission, vision, values, and goals of the department.
            BCC is a seven-week course consisting of classroom training, on-line courses, health and
            fitness testing, and force skills training that is mandatory for all Security Series staff. The




    Effective: 12/21/22                                Page 1 of 13                            Policy 20.7.1
       course is run simultaneously with 12 continuous months of trial service coupled with a
       Field Training and Evaluation Program (FTEP).

   D. Basic Instructor Development Course (BIDC): Required curricula for all instructors of
      PDU and BCC training courses. Participation requirement may be waived only upon the
      request to, and approval of, the PDU Administrator or designee.

   E. Classroom Training: Courses delivered in a traditional classroom setting utilizing face-to-
      face instruction and activities.

   F. Corrections Career Officer Development (CCOD): A self-study course consisting of
      sufficient training hours to satisfy all DPSST board-approved instructional goals. CCOD
      incorporates BCC classroom training for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), cell
      extraction, and use of a chemical agent. This course is in lieu of attending the full BCC
      program.

   G. Course Application and Submission Form: Required form (commonly referred to as the
      New Course Application or NCA) maintained by PDU to document the approval of
      training materials developed prior to implementation or delivery of the training. The
      form shall be maintained by PDU within the legal file of the approved materials.

   H. Curriculum: Training materials developed or obtained by PDU for the purpose of
      providing instruction to staff. PDU-developed curriculum is the property of PDU and
      available to staff with expressed permission from a PDU Administrator or designee.

   I. Employee: Any person employed full-time, part-time, or under temporary appointment
      by the Department of Corrections.

   J. Field Training Evaluation Program (FTEP): A comprehensive training program as part of
      the Basic Corrections Course, consisting of on-the-job training, reality-based scenarios,
      learning events, electronic training log, weekly and monthly evaluations with an
      assigned certified Field Training Officer, tracking, testing, and documentation of the
      trainees’ progress throughout the trial service period and a final test.

   K. Field Training Officer (FTO): The appointed staff member who has completed the
      certified training for field training officers and is responsible for instructing, guiding,
      monitoring, and evaluating trainees through FTEP.

   L. Field Training Supervisor (FTS) and Assistant Field Training Supervisor (AFTS): An
      institution-based, management-service staff member assigned to manage and
      coordinate the FTEP. The FTS is the primary liaison in contact with the PDU coordinator
      pertaining to training and certification.

   M. Force Skills: Skills related to force disciplines, including defensive tactics, firearms, taser,
      chemical agents, and other approved methods of force.




Effective: 12/21/22                              Page 2 of 13                             Policy 20.7.1
   N. Learning Management System (LMS): An employee-accessible online system for the
      administration, documentation, tracking, reporting, and delivery of educational courses,
      and training and development programs.

   O. New Employee Orientation (NEO): A program that provides new non-security series
      employees with a basic understanding of the department’s expectations of employee
      conduct, with a focus on the department’s mission, rules, policies, regulatory
      requirements, and procedures. An approved course of training for those employees
      newly hired to DOC or returning to DOC upon a 2-year absence.

   P. Online Training: Courses delivered through the approved Learning Management System.

   Q. Personal Learning Event (PLE) Form: A form that employees may submit for inclusion in
      the LMS to track and receive credit for training that an employee has received from an
      outside vendor.

   R. Reality-Based Scenario (RBS): Use of realistic simulations as a means for optimizing
      future knowledge and skills.

   S. Training Record: An electronic transcript maintained in the LMS for and accessible by
      each employee that registers the completion of approved training.

   T. Training Request Form: An electronic document to be completed by the person or entity
      making a request for the consideration of the development of training on a specific
      topic, submitted to Professional Development Unit for consideration.

   U. Training Roster: A document to be completed by an approved training coordinator for
      all classroom training and to be signed by each attendee accurately, including clear and
      legible signature, with proper entry of name, and OR number or DPSST certified staff’s
      DPSST number.


III. POLICY

   A. General

        1.    The department shall provide, within budgeted resources, employee training that
              meets legal requirements and current department training priorities.

        2.    All training curriculum development requests will be submitted electronically
              through a training request form.

              a)   The Professional Development Unit will review all development requests and
                   decide whether to approve or deny the request.

              b)   If the request is denied, an explanation of the decision will be sent to the
                   requestor.




Effective: 12/21/22                              Page 3 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
             c)   If the decision is approved, the PDU Administrator or designee shall assign the
                  development of training to appropriate staff and notify the requestor.

        3.   Requests for training to be included in the annual training schedule must be
             submitted to PDU by March 1 the year prior to requested inclusion, to which PDU
             will review and prioritize.

             Every March of the year prior to the requested inclusion, the PDU Administrator or
             designee will present the training requests to the DOC Executive Team for review
             and selection.

        4.   All training curriculums will be developed and approved utilizing a course
             application and submission form.

        5.   Approved training courses will be facilitated with appropriate instructor-to-
             student ratios required by the curriculum or mandated by the third-party vendor
             or certifying body.

        6.   Only valid training rosters as designated by PDU shall be used and completed in
             accordance with PDU instructions to ensure proper completion and signature
             entries. All rosters shall be scanned and electronically sent to PDU within 3
             business days of the training.

        7.   Certified DOC staff shall enter their DPSST number or employee number (OR
             number) on all training rosters. All staff will record their name in a clear legible
             manner to receive proper training credit.

        8.   Training participants are expected to give full attention and participation in all
             training and development programs they attend, avoiding the use of electronic
             devices or otherwise being distracted. Participants are expected to dress in
             compliance with DOC Dress Code policy 20.1.6, conduct themselves in a
             professional manner in accordance with Department of Administrative Services
             Discrimination and Harassment Free Workplace policy 50.010.01, DOC Code of
             Conduct policy 20.1.3 and DOC Code of Ethics policy 20.1.2, and satisfactorily
             complete all required program or course elements to receive credit for training.

        9.   Training instructors shall:

             a)   Be in good standing with DOC and adhere to DOC Code of Conduct policy
                  20.1.3, DOC Promotion and Maintenance of a Respectful Workplace policy
                  20.1.7, and DOC Code of Ethics policy 20.1.2. A signed copy of the Code of
                  Ethics shall be provided to PDU upon request. Failure to abide by these
                  expectations may result in removal as an instructor as determined by PDU in
                  conjunction with the instructor’s supervisor.

             b)   Training instructors for the BCC shall meet the terms and conditions for
                  instructors established and as defined in OAR 259-008-0300 and receive
                  instructor certification by DPSST.



Effective: 12/21/22                              Page 4 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
             c)   Skill instructors must meet the requirements of their skills and follow the
                  renewal requirements set for their specific discipline.

        10. All instructors will be expected to abide by the following expectations:

             a)   Training instructors shall be positive and motivate students toward learning
                  and professionalism.

             b)   Instructors should encourage students to take pride in doing their work well
                  while demonstrating respect for those with whom they work and supervise.

             c)   Training instructors shall maintain a professional demeanor whenever they
                  are representing the department. Instructors will be polite, courteous, and
                  treat others with respect.

             d)   Instructors are never (during class or on break) to use offensive jokes, words,
                  gestures, stories, or comments that could reasonably offend any person or
                  group of people.

             e)   There shall be no visual harassment, offensive touching, jokes, comments,
                  compliments, pet names, cartoons, or other depictions which could be
                  considered offensive in nature (either before, during, or after class).

             f)   It is incumbent on each instructor to show respect for students, their
                  employer, other members of the criminal justice system, and the public.

             g)   Any breach of professional standards is grounds for immediate removal.

        11. Skill Instructor-to-Student Ratios

             a)   These ratios apply to all Force Skills training, regardless of venue, curriculum,
                  or program.

             b)   All Force Skills classes which include a physical application component require
                  a minimum of two qualified instructors.

             c)   Firearms Training requires the following additional instructors:

                  A. Minimum ratio of one instructor per four students must be present and
                     observe any live firing line.


        12. Learning Management System (LMS):

             a)   All approved courses will be recorded and maintained electronically in the
                  Learning Management System (LMS).

             b)   All instructor records, student records, rosters, curriculum, policy review, on-
                  line courses, and training programs will be maintained in the LMS.




Effective: 12/21/22                              Page 5 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
             c)   Only staff authorized by PDU will enter and manage training records in LMS.

             d)   All instructors, FTOs, PDU staff, Information Systems Deployment Support
                  coordinators and any others who support PDU will have a basic knowledge of
                  the LMS and how to utilize the system for their work processes.

        13. Additional Informational Sessions

             a)   Informational meetings, business meetings, personal financial guidance,
                  retirement guidance, benefits guidance, web or electronic research,
                  traditional research, workgroups, or any other activity not consistent with the
                  above criterion will not be considered training.

             b)   Any college, university, or specialized courses taught by accredited institutions
                  of higher learning for specialized certificates or degree programs will not be
                  tracked on the DOC Learning Management System (LMS).

             c)   Staff who have an active DPSST certification number and attend training
                  offered by DPSST shall sign an official DPSST roster and shall not submit a PLE
                  to PDU for training credit. Staff who are not issued, nor have an active DPSST
                  certification number, and attend training offered by DPSST shall submit a PLE
                  to PDU for training credit. If more than five non-certified staff attend such
                  training, those attendees shall obtain an official training roster and submit it
                  to PDU for training credit.

   B. Training Programs

        1.   Corrections Career Officer Development:

             Correctional officers who have previously been issued basic correctional officer
             certification through DPSST but have not been employed full-time as a correctional
             officer for over 2-1/2 years, but less than five years, must complete the prescribed
             career officer development course and field training manual prior to reactivation
             of certification. CCOD incorporates BCC classroom training for CPR, cell extraction,
             and use of chemical agent. The BCC classroom training incorporated into CCOD
             shall be completed prior to scheduling the CCOD final exam test.

        2.   Basic Corrections Course:

             a)   The BCC program will be designed by a representative workgroup of certified
                  staff along with PDU representatives.

             b)   The BCC program will be approved through the Corrections Policy Committee
                  of the Board on Public Safety Standards and Training in accordance with ORS
                  181.610 to 181.712.

             c)   The BCC program will be certified by DPSST and portable to other correctional
                  agencies in Oregon. Standardization in delivery is a core principle that must be




Effective: 12/21/22                             Page 6 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
                  adhered to. The content of the program may not be altered at the institution
                  level.

             d)   Management and responsibility of the BCC and CCOD are in partnership with
                  PDU and the DOC Operations division and shall include, but are not limited to,
                  the following:

             e)   Professional Development Unit shall be responsible for:

                  A. Liaising with DPSST, Corrections Policy Committee, and Board on Public
                     Safety Standards and Training for certification-related matters.

                  B. Facilitating BCC instructor and FTO certification process through DPSST
                     including arranging and conducting instructor development courses.

                  C. Facilitating new correctional officer certification process through DPSST.
                     Verify students’ total training hours (classroom, online, and any
                     remediation training) and performance for certification. See attached
                     documents.

                  D. Maintaining final trainee BCC records.

                  E. In cooperation with the field training supervisors, coordinating delivery of
                     all aspects of the BCC program.

                  F. Arranging adjunct instructors for specialty courses.

                  G. Updating curriculum to meet current job task analysis and DPSST
                     instructional goals; and

                  H. Notifying the institutions of non-compliance and instructor availability
                     issues.


             f)   Operations Division shall be responsible for:

                  A. Facilitating institution segment of FTEP to align with the BCC certification
                     timelines.

                  B. Facilitating weekly observation reports (WOR) and monthly observation
                     reports (MOR) of students’ on-the-job training.

                  C. Upon request from PDU, identifying instructors to assist with the BCC
                     including Health Services and Behavioral Health Services.

                  D. Providing duty and protective gear, weapons, and ammunition for firearms
                     training.


        3.   Implementation of BCC and CCOD Programs:



Effective: 12/21/22                             Page 7 of 13                         Policy 20.7.1
             a)   PDU will collaborate with each institution and determine a yearly schedule for
                  the delivery of the BCC classes.

             b)   All training shall be delivered by DOC-approved and DPSST-certified
                  instructors. All mandated courses, such as the BCC program, must be taught
                  by DPSST-certified instructors in accordance with ORS 259-008-0085.

             c)   Only DOC-approved and DPSST-certified training material may be used in the
                  BCC program. The PDU Administrator or designee are the only authorized
                  approvers of training materials. DPSST must approve all DOC curriculum prior
                  to delivery.

             d)   Trainees are required to adhere to DPSST student conduct requirements and
                  the Criminal Justice Code of Ethics of as identified in OAR 259-008-0025. Any
                  violation is grounds for removal from the program. Students shall be
                  instructed on the required conduct during the first day of training.

             e)   Trainees shall not be removed from class to address institution operations
                  except by approval of the Assistant Superintendent of Security in conjunction
                  with the FTS and PDU class coordinator. These instances should be limited to
                  bona-fide emergencies and institution operations in which the training benefit
                  to the student exceeds the cost, time, and resources to reschedule training.

             f)   The mandated BCC program has specific DPSST instructional goals that require
                  100 percent attendance. A student absence may require a make-up class prior
                  to continuing in the scheduled BCC class. All missed training shall be
                  rescheduled in coordination with the PDU BCC office. (See Attachment A).

             g)   Trainees shall pass all testing in accordance with DPSST mandates.
                  Remediation will be offered to those that fail initial testing. Failure of any
                  remediation, whether written, hands-on, or firearms testing will result in the
                  trainee’s failure of the class and, upon review and request of the parent
                  institution, assignment of a future BCC.

             h)   Paperwork and Records:

                  A. The institution will submit all required DPSST paperwork to the PDU-BCC
                     certification coordinator no later than 14 days prior to the start date of the
                     scheduled BCC class, which includes:


                       i.    F-2A - Final Report Law Enforcement Medical Examination

                      ii.    F-4 - Personnel Action

                      iii.   F-5 - Academy Training Application

                      iv.    F-11 - Criminal Justice Code of Ethics




Effective: 12/21/22                                Page 8 of 13                        Policy 20.7.1
                  B. The PDU-BCC certification coordinator will submit the required paperwork
                     to DPSST on behalf of the institution and make all necessary notifications
                     once approval for training has been received.

                  C. Student files shall be kept at the institution with the FTS and then
                     transferred to PDU upon completion of trial service or removal of the
                     student from trial service.

                  D. Student files shall be complete and in accordance with PDU and DPSST
                     standards upon submission to PDU.

                  E. The FTO will submit weekly and monthly evaluations to the Field Training
                     Supervisor, during the on-the-job training phase, which may be used to
                     determine the future status of the trainee.

                  F. The FTO will complete the field training manual with the trainee, verifying
                     performance and minimum standards are being met in each module and
                     sub-category.

                  G. Upon the completion of the BCC course and field training manual, the
                     institution will provide the appropriate DPSST documents for basic
                     certification.

                  H. PDU shall maintain final trainee BCC records.


             i)   BCC Instructors:

                  Qualifications:

                  A.   Instructors must meet the minimum qualifications per OAR 259-008-
                       0080 and;

                  B.   Be in good standing with DOC and DPSST and;

                  C.    Have a current BIDC course completed and subsequent DPSST instructor
                       certification.


             j)   FTO and FTS Training:

                  A. FTOs are required to attend and graduate from a DOC FTEP training course.

                  B. Maintenance training for all FTOs will be coordinated by the FTS in
                     conjunction with the PDU coordinator.

                  C. Statewide coordination and training for FTS will be coordinated and
                     administered by PDU.




Effective: 12/21/22                            Page 9 of 13                         Policy 20.7.1
        4.   New Employee Orientation (NEO):

             a)   All managers shall enroll new Security Plus and non-Security employees, or
                  those who have been absent from the department for two or more years, in
                  NEO. Employees are required to attend NEO within the first three months of
                  their hire date, or upon first availability as determined by PDU scheduling, and
                  prior to attending annual training.

             b)   PDU establishes standards and content for NEO and assists the department by
                  planning, evaluating, developing, and presenting training materials to improve
                  employee performance, skills, and knowledge.

             c)   The duration, location(s), curriculum, and schedule for each program shall be
                  determined and announced by PDU upon availability. The curriculum for each
                  program shall be reviewed and approved by PDU, to ensure:

                  A. Training familiarizes and explains regulatory requirements.

                  B. Training provides an understanding of the department mission, vision and
                     core values ensuring clear employee expectations related to the
                     department’s core values, code of ethics, and code of conduct; and

                  C. Training explains department rules, policies, and procedures.


             d)   Functional units may choose to provide a new employee orientation for their
                  facility or institution in addition to, but not in lieu of, NEO. Functional units
                  choosing to provide such orientation shall only provide training from
                  curriculum that has been reviewed and approved by PDU.

        5.   Annual Training (AT):

             a)   All DOC and Oregon Corrections Enterprises permanent employees shall
                  annually participate in 40 hours of agency approved training, with the
                  exceptions listed below. Annual training may be offered as classroom, online,
                  or blended training events.

             b)   The course offerings shall provide opportunity for individual development or
                  remediation in a variety of delivery methods to maximize the availability of
                  courses and resources and minimize the need for overtime or post relief
                  costs.

             c)   PDU shall publish a list of mandatory training requirements as soon as
                  available each year.

             d)   Managers, in discussions with employees, shall identify and enroll employees
                  in all mandatory trainings related to job duties, position description, and
                  agency initiatives, and provide the employee on-duty time for completion of
                  the courses.



Effective: 12/21/22                             Page 10 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
             e)   Managers and employees may jointly agree upon other job-related training
                  available from other sources that will count towards the required 40 hours of
                  annual in-service training based on the employee’s individual development
                  plan and as resources permit. The employee is responsible to submit to PDU
                  a record of all other training upon successful completion. Other trainings
                  attended shall not replace the requirement to complete annual mandatory
                  courses.

        6.   Armed Post Qualification:

             a)   To be armed-post qualified, DPSST-certified DOC staff assigned to medium or
                  Level 3 or higher custody facilities are required to shoot qualifying scores on
                  the DPSST-approved pistol qualification course, the DOC Rifle Qualification
                  Course*, and the DOC Shotgun Qualification Course (see Attachment C)
                  annually.

                  *Institutions which do not employ rifles may waive the rifle qualification
                  requirement for Armed Post Qualification (APQ) (see Attachments B and C).

             b)   APQ status is valid from date of qualification until the end of the subsequent
                  calendar year.

        7.   Leadership and Professional Development:

             a)   Programs designed to prepare employees with the knowledge, skills, and
                  work experiences necessary for professional growth and career advancement.
                  These programs will meet the objectives of DPSST Supervision and
                  Management Certifications per OAR 259-008-0000.

             b)   PDU shall develop and deliver a multi-level Leadership and Professional
                  Development Program through the Correctional Management Development
                  program and Developing Leadership program.

        8.   Other programs will be developed upon request and sponsorships of the DOC
             Executive Team.

   C. Adjunct Instructor Selection and Management

        9.   Instructor selection:

             a)   Professional Development Unit will notify the institution that there is a need
                  for instructors. This notification will include what type of instructor is needed
                  (classroom, force skills, annual training, BCC, etc.) and relevant required
                  attributes or abilities.

             b)   The institution will solicit perspective applicants in accordance with collective
                  bargaining agreements. Perspective applicants shall submit a memorandum of
                  interest including experience, training, and other relevant information.




Effective: 12/21/22                             Page 11 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
             c)   The institution will determine if the applicants are in good standing and
                  forward a list of potential instructor candidates to PDU.

             d)   PDU (Local Training and Development Specialist 2 and PDU Administrator) will
                  review the list and notify the institution and perspective candidates of an
                  assessment process.

             e)   Selection assessment will be consistent with assessment processes for
                  specialty teams within DOC.

             f)   Final selection of adjunct instructors requires approval by the PDU
                  Administrator.

             g)   Force Skills Instructor Requirements:

                  A. Instructors must meet the minimum qualifications outlined in OAR 259-
                     008-0080.


        10. PDU shall develop and provide a Basic Instructor Development Course yearly for
            those employees identified, selected, and approved to become department
            adjunct instructors. All instructors shall attend and successfully complete the BIDC,
            in which each trainer shall clearly explain expectations and the instructors’ role.
            Upon request by the trainer’s supervisor, the PDU Administrator can review and
            approve a waiver of attendance.

        11. FTO and Adjunct Instructor Removal Process:

             a)   The PDU Administrator or designee shall immediately be notified of any
                  instructor who receives disciplinary action, including reprimand, for
                  unprofessional conduct, including training or training related activities, and
                  shall be removed from the active pool of instructors. The instructor’s
                  supervisor shall notify DPSST of any denial or revocation of instructor
                  certification for an instructor with a DPSST instructor certification on grounds
                  cited in OAR 259-008-0080(9). To be reinstated as an instructor, the
                  instructor shall participate in a selection process after the term of the
                  disciplinary action has expired.

             b)   Failure to meet the minimum qualification standards will result in removal of
                  a FTO and adjunct instructor(s). FTS or PDU coordinators shall forward
                  applicable documentation to the functional unit manager or designee
                  regarding instructor deficiencies.

             c)   All force skills instructors shall not have any disciplinary actions related to use-
                  of-force issues.




Effective: 12/21/22                              Page 12 of 13                           Policy 20.7.1
IV. IMPLEMENTATION

   This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: ___signature on file_______________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator



Approved: ___signature on file______________
Heidi Steward, Acting Director




Effective: 12/21/22                          Page 13 of 13                 Policy 20.7.1
