                                       DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                              Institutions

 Title:               AIC Counts                                        DOC Policy: 40.1.3
 Effective:           3/1/24                                            Supersedes: 11/1/16
 Applicability:       Institutions
 Directives Cross-Reference:
                Ballot Measure 17 (1994)
 Attachments:       None

I.    PURPOSE

      The purpose of this policy is to always provide guidelines for the counting of the entire adult
      in custody (AIC) population and at all locations, to prevent escape, and assure a safe, secure
      living and working environment while providing safety for the public.

II.   DEFINITIONS

      A.      Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of
              Corrections who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

      B.      Count Clerk: The employee responsible for reconciling all count sheets, including out
              counts, to clear the institution count.

      C.      Emergency Count: A count taken when a possible or actual emergency exists. All AICs
              must return to their assigned bunks to be counted, unless directed to another area.

      D.      Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports
              to either the Director, the Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an administrator and
              has responsibility for delivery of program services or coordination of program
              operations.

      E.      Master Count Sheet: A record of location counts of institution AICs at official times or
              when special counts or emergency counts are conducted.

      F.      Miscount: A count that does not clear (such as, missing AIC, math error, clerical error,
              etc.).

      G.      Negative Count: Accounting for AICs who are not in their assigned living area. Empty beds
              are marked during the count.

      H.      Officer-in-Charge: That person designated by the functional unit manager to supervise
              the facility and make operational decisions in accordance with rule or procedure during
              periods when the functional unit manager or officer-of-the-day are not readily available.


Effective 3/1/24                               Page 1 of 4                                    Policy 40.1.3
       I.    Official Count: A count routinely conducted each day at specified times to account for all
             AICs in the facility.

       J.    Out Count: A record of all AICs authorized to be away from their assigned cells or beds
             while being supervised by staff in other locations during count.

             1.    Scheduled Out Count: An out count that is pre-approved by the functional unit
                   manager or designee.

             2.    Unscheduled Out Count: An out count that is not pre-approved by the functional
                   unit manager or designee and will be approved before count time by the officer-in-
                   charge.

       K.    Picture Count: A count where AIC picture identification is used to verify the identity of
             the AICs being counted.

       L.    Positive Count: Accounting for AICs who are present at the time of the count. This could
             be marking full beds during the count or out-counts.

       M.    Special Count: A count conducted at a non-official time and not considered an emergency
             count.

       N.    Upright Count: AICs in cells will be standing in plain view or sitting upright on their
             assigned bunk. AICs in dorms will be sitting upright on their assigned bunks. AICs will not
             be counted while lying on their beds unless physically incapable of sitting up.

III.   POLICY

       Each correctional facility shall conduct counts using the following standards:

       A.    All employees who supervise AICs shall be trained in AIC count procedures and their
             individual responsibilities relating to accounting for an AIC’s whereabouts. This will include
             frequent, unscheduled counts of AICs under their control.

       B.    There must be at least one count per shift and at least five counts per day conducted,
             two of which are upright counts.

       C.    There is at least one scheduled official morning count conducted before AICs are released
             for the morning meal.

       D.    There is at least one scheduled official evening count conducted after AICs have returned
             to their cell or bunk once all activities (for example, recreation period, education, other
             activities) have concluded for the night.

       E.    All AIC movement shall stop from the time count is announced until the count is cleared,
             unless authorized by the officer-in-charge.

       F.    No count will be conducted, including out counts, until all AIC movement has stopped for

Effective 3/1/24                                 Page 2 of 4                                   Policy 40.1.3
             the institution count. Any exceptions shall be approved in writing by the functional unit
             manager.

      G.     Employees conducting the count shall be looking for living, breathing persons.

      H.     AIC participation in any portion of the count documentation process is prohibited
             including, but not limited to, preparation, processing, delivery of count slips, or handling
             of count related documents.

      I.     Security staff shall maintain the master count sheet with current information of all housing
             moves, transfers, releases, and other activities that may impact the master count and
             accounting for AICs.

      J.     All count documentation shall be signed with legibly printed name by the employee who
             performed the count and tabulated and cleared the count and shall be maintained in
             accordance with applicable retention schedules.

      K.     In the event of a miscount, a recount shall be conducted as described in institution written
             directive. Recounts can be conducted using various types of count methods. These types
             of counts include negative counts, positive counts, picture counts, and upright counts.
             Count and recounts will continue until all AICs are accounted for and count clears.

      L.     Each facility will develop a process for the out counting of AICs as defined by this policy. This
             includes special counts for AICs assigned to outside work crews. For special circumstances where
             multiple institutions are supplying AICs for overnight work crews (for example, wild land fires,
             forest camp, etc.) the functional unit manager (such as, Camp Commander) will develop a
             procedure for accounting for all assigned AICs that is compliant with this policy.

      M.     Out counts may be used in support of Measure 17 compliance activities.

      N.     Unscheduled out counts will be limited to the minimum number necessary to ensure accuracy
             in accounting for AICs and will be approved by the officer-in-charge before count times.

      O.     The functional unit manager will designate the responsibility for oversight of count to a
             manager and will specify through written directive what the duties and responsibilities
             are and how they will be carried out. Written directive will, at least, include the following:

             1.    Requirement of on-the-job training and documentation of training.

             2.    Provision of formal, uniform, on-the-job training for count clerks to ensure
                   consistency and accuracy.

             3.    Requirement that the final AIC count will be approved by the officer-in-charge
                   before a count cleared indication is given.



Effective 3/1/24                                Page 3 of 4                                       Policy 40.1.3
             4.    Prohibition of distractions for employees performing the count process.

             5.    Provision of specific information on how and when positive counts or negative
                   counts will be used.

             6.    Assurance by the functional unit manager that a written directive is in place
                   detailing the responsibility and processes for scheduled out counts, unscheduled
                   out counts, and emergency counts of AICs.

             7.    Assurance by the functional unit manager that institutional written directives
                   clearly state all unscheduled out counts are to be approved by the officer-in-charge
                   before count times.

       P.    Policy Variance Exception:

             1. Request for exceptions to any specific part of this policy must be recommended in
                writing by the Eastside or Westside Institutions Administrator and Chief of Security
                on behalf of the specific facility’s functional unit manager utilizing a Variance
                Exception form (CD1737). The reason for the specific exception and the proposed
                process to be used by the facility must be approved in writing by the Assistant
                Director of Operations.

             2. Upon receiving written authorization for the exception to any specific part of this
                policy, the facility will explain this exception and approval, including date of approval,
                within the facility’s AIC Count procedure

IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      Each correctional facility will create an operational procedure that establishes a process for
      counts to be conducted on a daily basis as set forth in this policy.



Certified: ______signature on file__________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ______signature on file__________
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective 3/1/24                               Page 4 of 4                                    Policy 40.1.3
