                                         DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                              Business & Finance


 Title:           Receipting, Securing, and Depositing Funds                DOC Policy: 30.1.3

 Effective:       3/21/24                                                   Supersedes: 5/1/17

 Applicability:   All functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
                  ORS 293.265 – Disposition of Collected Moneys
                  Oregon Accounting Manual Policy 10.20.00.PO – Cash (Policy)
                  Oregon Accounting Manual Policy 10.20.00.PR – Cash (Procedure)
                  Oregon Accounting Manual Policy 15.10.00 – Cash and Cash Equivalents
                  OAR 291 Div. 131 – Mail (AIC)
                  OAR 291 Div. 158 – Trust Accounts (AIC)
                  DOC Policy 20.1.2 Code of Ethics
                  DOC Policy 20.1.3 – Code of Conduct
                  DOC Policy 40.2.4 – Sale of Meal Tickets
 Attachments: None

I.    PURPOSE

      To establish specific responsibilities and provide the process for receipting, securing, and depositing
      funds within the Department of Corrections (DOC).

II.   DEFINITIONS

      A. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections who
         is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

      B. Authorized Money Items: Cashier’s checks, money orders, checks or warrants issued by a state,
         federal, or tribal government, and checks issued by an insurance company related to the
         settlement of a legal action or claim.

      C. Cash Receipts: U.S. currency coins or bills, checks, money orders or other monetary items that
         can readily be converted to or used as U.S. currency, such as gift cards.

      D. Dual Control: A process whereby at least two people are present for the duration of a specific
         task.

      E. Functional Unit: Any organizational component within the Department of Corrections
         responsible for the delivery of program services or coordination of program operations.

      F. Functional Unit Manager (FUM): Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports
         to either the Director, the Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an administrator and has
         responsibility for delivery of program services or coordination of program operations.

Effective: 3/21/24                               Page 1 of 5                                   Policy 30.1.03
       G. Funds: A sum of money saved or made available for a particular purpose.

       H. Internal Control: A process designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of
          reliable financial reporting, effective and efficient operations, and compliance with laws and
          regulations are achieved.

III.   POLICY

       The treatment of all funds that are received by Department of Corrections staff, including but not
       limited to cash, money orders, personal checks, cashier checks, government agency business
       checks, and business checks, shall comply with this policy, standard business practices, generally
       accepted accounting principles, the Oregon Accounting Manual (OAM), Oregon Administrative
       Rules (OARs), Oregon State Treasury requirements, and the department’s policies on Code of Ethics
       (DOC policy 20.1.2) and Code of Conduct (DOC policy 20.1.3).

       A. Internal Controls

          1. Department of Corrections management is responsible for ensuring that internal controls
             are sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that state assets are not lost or stolen.
             Internal controls and safeguards must be adequate to provide management with a
             reasonable degree of assurance that cash and cash related transactions will be properly
             accounted for and controlled per OAM 10.20.00.PO, OAM 10.20.PR, and OAM 15.10.00.

           2. To maintain internal control over cash receipts, all Department of Corrections locations are
              responsible for timely deposits of funds. In accordance with ORS 293.265(1)(a), funds must
              be deposited no later than one business day after receipt. Exceptions to the statute are
              permitted under the following circumstances:


                a. The FUM documents the exception in accordance with ORS 293.265(1)(b);
                b. The exception includes deposits being made at least weekly (OAM 10.20.00.PR); and
                c. A copy of the deposit exception documentation is forwarded to Central Accounting for
                   audit purposes (ORS 293.265(1)(c)).


          3. When not being actively processed, all cash receipts must be placed in a locked, stationary
             enclosure (for example, a safe, locking drawer in cabinet or desk, etc.).


       B. Trust Funds

          1. Institutions or Business Services

                a.   Receipting of funds from AICs arriving at a Department of Corrections intake center:




Effective 3/21/24                                Page 2 of 5                                  Policy 30.1.03
                    A.     Designated staff shall receive funds from transported AICs. Funds shall be
                           accepted and processed in accordance with the department’s rules on Trust
                           Accounts (AIC) (OAR 291-158).

                    B.     If an incoming AIC is in possession of monies, two staff shall:

                          i.    Prepare a Receipt of Funds form (CD 351) documenting funds received from
                                the AIC.

                         ii.    Include the date, AIC’s name, date of birth, SID number, amount received,
                                and both staff’s initials on the Receipt of Funds form (CD 351);

                         iii.   Verify funds, placing any authorized money items in a sealed envelope;

                         iv.    Attach the Receipt of Funds form (CD 351) to the funds and provide a copy to
                                the AIC, retaining a copy for intake center records; and

                          v.    Place the funds in the designated Business Services lock box.

               b.   Funds received through the mail:

                    A. Funds received through the mail shall be handled in accordance with the
                       department’s rules on Mail (AIC) (OAR 291-131) and Trust Account (AIC) (OAR 291-
                       158).

                    B. Cash shall be confiscated and counted by two staff. A Mail Confiscation Notice shall
                       be completed and signed by mailroom staff, attached to the cash items, and
                       secured. A copy of the Mail Confiscation Notice shall be distributed to the sender
                       and to the AIC.

          2. Central Trust

               a.   Receipting and Securing Funds:

                    A.     Department of Corrections will accept and process authorized money items
                           received by Central Trust only in the form prescribed by and in accordance with
                           the department’s rules on Trust Accounts (AIC) (OAR 291-158).

                    B.     Funds intended for Central Trust but received by other staff shall be forwarded
                           to Central Trust, along with the envelope in which they arrived and any contents,
                           within one business day. This excludes institution mailrooms, which shall follow
                           the process in OAR 291-131-0037.

                    C.     All funds received by mail shall be opened and batched in a secure room and
                           processed daily.



Effective 3/21/24                                  Page 3 of 5                                  Policy 30.1.03
                    D.   Funds determined to belong to the Department of Corrections shall be recorded
                         on a funds agency log and delivered to Central Accounting.

                    E.   A Mail Confiscation Notice shall be completed and signed by Central Trust staff,
                         attached to the cash items, and secured. A copy of the Mail Confiscation Notice
                         is distributed to the sender and to the AIC.

                    F.   Funds will be secured when not being processed.

                    G.   All authorized funds intended for AICs must include remitter name and address
                         and AIC name and SID number.

                    H.   Deposit information shall be entered into the AIC financial banking system.

                    I.   Checks and money orders will be copied, and a record of the deposit shall be
                         maintained in accordance with applicable retention requirements.

               b.   Depositing:

                    The designated depositor will ensure the sealed bank bag includes a numbered deposit
                    slip and is always secured. Central Trust will retain a copy of the signed armored service
                    transmittal log which lists the bag numbers and the amounts included in each deposit.

      C. Department of Corrections Funds

          1. Institutions and Business Services

               a.   Receipting:

                    A.   Meal ticket, AIC work program, and other fund cash receipts shall be collected
                         through Business Services.

                    B.   Funds received from the sale of meal tickets will be processed in accordance with
                         the department’s policy on Sale of Meal Tickets (DOC policy 40.2.4).

               b.   Depositing:

                    A.   Institution Business Services shall provide deposit slips to Central Accounting
                         within five business days for recording.

                    B.   If approved in advance by the Financial Services Administrator, the deposit may
                         be made at a designated bank.

                    C.   Each institution’s Business Services or designated functional unit shall retain the
                         carbon copy of the deposit slip with a copy of the Trust Deposit Reconciliation
                         form (CD 1314D) for the unit’s records. A copy of the deposit slip shall be


Effective 3/21/24                                Page 4 of 5                                    Policy 30.1.03
                        distributed to Central Trust with a copy of the corresponding trust reconciliation
                        form and a copy of the appropriate source documentation, upon completion of
                        the deposit.

          2. Central Accounting Receipting

                a. Monthly, Central Accounting will post dual control assignments for mail pickup. These
                   individuals will retrieve and open mail under dual control and record all cash and
                   checks received on a cash receipts log.

                b. Upon receipt, checks and money orders shall be endorsed by Central Accounting “For
                   Deposit Only” using an endorsement stamp.

                c. Funds intended for Central Accounting but received by other staff shall be forwarded
                   to Central Accounting within one business day.

                d. The Cash Receipts Log and cash receipt items must be delivered to and secured at the
                   Central Accounting - Cash Receipts desk, which will prepare deposits.


IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: ____signature on file_____________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ____signature on file______________
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective 3/21/24                               Page 5 of 5                                  Policy 30.1.03
