                                                DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                                     Operations Division

  Title:                  CJIS Background Clearances                                  DOC Policy: 20.5.23

  Effective:              8/11/22                                                     Supersedes: N/A
  Applicability:          All DOC employees and contractors, volunteers, and other non-employee service providers
  Directives Cross-Reference:

   Rules:                 257-010 Oregon Criminal Offender Information System
                          291-015 Volunteer/Student Intern
                          291-016 Facility Access
   Policies:              20.5.15 Identification Cards
                          60.1.11 Acceptable Use and Management of Criminal Justice Information
                          90.2.6    Volunteers/Student Interns
                          100.1.1 Non-Employee Service Provider (Carded and Noncarded)
                          100.1.2 Non-Employee Service Provider Training
   Other:                 Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Security
                          Policy
   Attachments:           CD 672 ID Card Request Form
                          CD 1905 CJIS Denial-DOC Accommodations for Limited Access
                          CD 1904 Acknowledgment of DOC Facility/Location Limited Access and CJI-Protection
                                  Restriction Requirements
                          CJIS Approval/Denial and ID Card Issuance Workflow

    I.     PURPOSE

           The purpose of this policy is to establish standards and guidelines for:

           A. Documenting Oregon State Police decisions on Oregon Department of Corrections (DOC) employee and non-
              employee service provider (NSP) Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) background investigations and
              CJIS clearance determinations in DOC records systems; and

           B. Establishing Criminal Justice Information (CJI) protection restrictions for DOC employees and NSPs without
              CJIS clearance.


    II. DEFINITIONS

           A. Criminal Justice Information (CJI): CJI is defined in DOC Policy 60.1.11 Acceptable Use and Management of
              Criminal Justice Information. It is generally a term used to refer to all of the Federal Bureau of Investigations
              (FBI) CJIS-provided data necessary for law enforcement agencies to perform their mission and enforce the
              laws, including, but not limited to, biometric, identity history, person, organization, property (when
              accompanied by any personally identifiable information), and case or incident history data. In addition, CJI
              refers to the FBI CJIS-provided data necessary for civil agencies to perform their mission, including, but not
              limited to, data used to make hiring decisions. For the purposes of this policy, restricted CJI in DOC systems
              is FBI numbers and driver license numbers.




Effective: 8/11/22                                 Page 1 of 4                                     Policy 20.5.23
        B. Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS): A national, central repository of criminal history records
           maintained by the FBI. The FBI CJIS division is responsible for the collection, warehousing, and timely
           dissemination of relevant CJI to the FBI and to qualified law enforcement, criminal justice, civilian, academic,
           employment, and licensing agencies.

        C. DOC Local Agency Security Officer (LASO): The DOC person responsible for oversight and compliance with
           this policy.

        D. Electronic Media: Memory devices in laptops and computer hard drives and any removable, transportable
           digital memory media such as magnetic tape or disk, backup medium, optical disk, flash drives, external hard
           drives, thumb drives, or digital memory card.

        F. Facility: The building and grounds area operated by a functional unit which houses adults in custody (AICs).
           For the purposes of this policy, a facility includes other locations at which DOC employees or NSPs are
           assigned to work or at public buildings owned or occupied by the DOC.

        G. Functional Unit: Any organizational component within the DOC responsible for the delivery of program
           services or coordination of program operations, to include correctional facilities, non-correctional facilities,
           and community corrections facilities. In a correctional facility, the functional unit manager (FUM) is the
           superintendent.

        F. Non-Employee Service Provider (NSP): As defined in DOC Policy 90.2.6 Volunteer/Student Interns and
           OAR 291-015 Volunteer Services/Student Interns, NSPs are generally individuals who provide services or
           programs to the department, to adults in custody (AICs), or to adults on supervision, but not as a paid DOC
           employee. Examples include contractors, volunteers or student interns, mentors, and other agency
           partners.

        G.    Physical Media: Printed documents and imagery that contain CJI.


    III. POLICY

        A depiction of the sequence of events for complying with this policy is provided in the CJIS Approval/Denial and
        ID Card Issuance Workflow provided as an attachment.

        A. CJIS Clearance Determination

             1. The Oregon State Police is the state agency responsible for managing the Oregon Criminal Offender
                Information System (OAR 257-010), conducting background investigations, and determining whether a
                person may be allowed unescorted access to CJIS.

             2. The LASO will record the determination in the DOC tracking system and notify the affected business
                unit(s).

             3. It is DOC’s policy to:

                  a. Comply with Oregon State Police CJIS access clearance or denials; and

                  b. Determine whether adequate CJI-protection restrictions can be implemented to allow a DOC
                     employee or NSP (potential or current) issuance of an identification card for unescorted facility
                     access.


Effective: 8/11/22                               Page 2 of 4                                    Policy 20.5.23
            4. Employees and NSPs with Oregon State Police CJIS clearance may be issued DOC identification cards
               provided they comply with the requirements of DOC Policies 100.1.1 NSP (Carded and Noncarded) and
               100.1.2 NSP Training, and meet all other identification card requirements in accordance with DOC Policy
               20.5.15 Identification Cards.

            5. Employees and NSPs for whom Oregon State Police denies CJIS clearance cannot be issued a DOC
               identification card or given unescorted facility access until DOC determines adequate CJI-protection
               restrictions can be implemented and they are approved by the FUM or their designee.

        B. Identifying CJI-Protection Restrictions

            1. If a DOC employee or NSP (current or potential) is denied CJIS access by the Oregon State Police, the
               LASO will confer with the affected business unit(s) to determine if adequate CJI-protection restrictions
               are or can be put in place to allow the employee or NSP unescorted facility access.

            2. Examples of CJI-protection restrictions include, but are not limited to:

                a. Assigning the employee or NSP with a DOC systems profile that limits system access and redacts CJI
                   from user screens.

                b. “Authorized Staff Only” signage identifying areas persons without CJIS clearance may not enter
                   unescorted due to CJI being stored, accessed, or otherwise available.

                c. Assigning key sets that do not allow entry to areas in which CJI is stored, accessed, or otherwise
                   available.

                d. Securely storing electronic and physical media within a physically secure or controlled area. A
                   secured area includes a locked drawer, cabinet, or room only accessible to authorized staff.

                e. Restricting access to electronic and physical media to authorized staff.

                f.   Ensuring only authorized staff remove printed or digital CJI.

                g. Storing all hardcopy CJI printouts in a secure area accessible to only those employees whose job
                   function requires them to handle such documents.

        C. Approving or Denying CJI-Protection Restrictions

            1. The LASO will present the proposed CJI-protection restrictions to the FUM or their designee for their
               review and decision (CJIS Denial-DOC Accommodations for Limited Access CD 1905).

            2. The FUM or their designee will review each employee or NSP and the proposed CJI-protection
               restrictions on a case-by-case basis.

            3. If the proposed CJI-protection restrictions are adequate to protect CJI, the FUM or their designee will
               provide the LASO with a written approval (CJIS Denial-DOC Accommodations for Limited Access
               CD 1905).




Effective: 8/11/22                              Page 3 of 4                                   Policy 20.5.23
            4. If the proposed CJI-protection restrictions are inadequate to protect CJI, the FUM or designee will
               identify the deficiencies, as well as any other reason for denial of unescorted facility access, in their
               written denial to the LASO (CJIS Denial-DOC Accommodations for Limited Access CD 1905).

            5. The LASO will inform the affected business unit(s) of the decision.

            6. Employees or NSPs without CJIS clearance but with approved CJI-protection restrictions will be informed
               of the restrictions and must review and acknowledge in writing the requirement to comply with the OAR
               291-016 Facility Access and CJI-protection restrictions (Acknowledgment of DOC Facility/Location
               Limited Access and CJI-Protection Restriction Requirements CD 1904).

            7. Employees or NSPs without CJIS clearance but with approved CJI-protection restrictions will be
               identified on the ID Card Request Form CD 672.

            8. Employees or NSPs without CJIS clearance and for whom CJI-protection restrictions were not approved
               will not be issued a DOC identification card with unescorted access to any affected facility.

    IV. IMPLEMENTATION

        This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



       Approved:           signature on file
                        Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


       Approved:          signature on file
                        Heidi Steward, Acting Director




Effective: 8/11/22                              Page 4 of 4                                      Policy 20.5.23
