                               DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                       Programs

 Title:             Religious Property (Inmate)               DOC Policy: 90.2.4
 Effective:         11/14/08                                  Supercedes: N/A
 Applicability: Institution staff, Religious Services staff, and Transport staff
 Directives Cross-Reference:
        Rule: Religious Activities – Div 143
        Policy: Searches of Medicine Bags – 90.2.2
 Attachments:
        Attachment 1 – Spiritual or Cultural Items for General Population Inmates
        Attachment 2 – Spiritual or Cultural Items for Special Housing Inmates

I.     PURPOSE

       The purpose of this policy is to identify approved religious items for inmates in general
       population and special housing, including items inmates may have in their cell or bunk area
       and those which are not restricted to the cell or bunk area.

II.    DEFINITIONS

       A.   Religious Property: Items that are used or worn as part of an inmate’s spirituality or
            cultural practice.

       B.   Special Housing: Areas of institutions where inmates with special needs or custody
            concerns may be housed (e.g., Administrative Housing, Disciplinary Segregation,
            Mental Health Infirmary, and Intensive Management Unit).

III.   POLICY

       A.   It is the policy of the Oregon Department of Corrections to allow inmates to practice
            their spiritual or cultural traditions without jeopardizing the safety and security of the
            facility. It is also the policy of the ODOC that all staff show courtesy and respect for
            the various faith traditions practiced by inmates in Department facilities.

       B.   Attached are two lists for approved spiritual items:

            1.    Attachment 1 – Items approved for inmates in general population

            2.    Attachment 2 – Items approved for inmates in special housing

       C.   General Guidelines

            1.    Use of Spiritual Items: Items authorized are only to be used in a manner
                  consistent with the purpose of the item. Misuse of items may result in
                  confiscation in accordance with the DOC rule on Personal Property (Inmate),
                  OAR 291-117. Items may not be displayed or used as decorations in the cell or


Attachment 2                             Page 1 of 2                                    Policy 90.2.4
               bunk area. When not in use, the items must be stored with the inmate’s other
               personal property.

         2.    Source of Spiritual Items: Most items are available through the commissary.
               Others may come from volunteers once they have been approved by the
               chaplain.

         3.    Items once available on the commissary may become unavailable because the
               vendor is no longer able to supply them. In such cases, Religious Services will
               work with the commissary in locating a new supplier.

         4.    Search of Spiritual or Cultural Items: All spiritual or cultural items are subject to
               inspection and search in accordance with the rule on Religious Activities, OAR
               291-143. A search will be done in a respectful way. When possible, inmates and
               not staff should handle the item and display it to the staff member conducting the
               search. Medicine bags shall be searched in accordance with the policy of
               Searches of Medicine Bags, #90.2.2.

         5.    Native American prayer feathers may be hand carried to the yard, but not to work
               or other programming. They may not be worn by the inmate. There is no limit on
               the number of prayer feathers permitted. However, only three feathers can be
               carried in an institution or transferred to another institution. Additional feathers
               must be sent home if the inmate is transferring to another institution. Feathers
               may be bound together with a piece of string and simple beading.

         6.    Wearing of Spiritual Medallions: There is no limit to the number of medallions
               and pendants an inmate may own. However, an inmate may only wear up to
               three medallions on a single chain and only one chain may be worn at a time. An
               inmate in special housing may have only one medallion and no chain.

         7.    Modesty Clothing: Islamic or Muslim inmates may wear shorts (for men) or robes
               (for women) when showering.

         8.    Islamic prayer rugs must be rolled up and stored in the cell or bunk area when
               not in use at prayer times.

         9     Religious Items Normally Restricted to the Cell or Bunk Area: Generally these
               items are for individual use only in the cell or bunk area. However, in general
               population, they may be used in a group at appropriate events organized by
               Religious Services.

         10.   Spiritual or Cultural Items Not Restricted to the Cell or Bunk Area: Generally
               these items are worn under the shirt or carried in the pocket. They may not be
               worn on the wrist or ankle. In general population, they may be carried, when
               appropriate, throughout the institution.

         11.   A Tefillin must be approved by a chaplain following a sincerity interview. Tefillin
               will not be available on the commissary and must be received through a package
               authorization. Tefillin are only approved for use in general population.



Attachment 2                          Page 2 of 2                                     Policy 90.2.4
           12.   Religious literature may be requested through the chapel library or from a
                 publisher. Books equal to or more than ¼ inch thick should have an authorization
                 stamp from the mailroom or chapel. In general population, religious books,
                 including a spiritual journal, may be carried to the yard and worship/religious
                 study areas.


IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      Attachments 1 and 2 may be updated by Religious Services in consultation with institution
      security managers without revising the policy. Updated attachments will be distributed as
      necessary.


Certified: ___Signature on file___________
Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ___Signature on file____________
Mitch Morrow, Deputy Director




Attachment 2                           Page 3 of 2                                 Policy 90.2.4
