                                   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                           Institutions


 Title:              Commissary Operations                                DOC Policy: 40.2.3

 Effective:          9/1/16                                               Supersedes: 3/1/01

 Applicability:      Institutions, Fiscal Services and Distribution Services
 Directives Cross-Reference:
     Death Row Housing - Div 093
     Inmate Assignment Management - Div 201
     Intensive Management Unit - Div 055
     Personal Property (Inmate) - Div 117
     Segregation (Administrative) - Div 046
     Segregation (Disciplinary) - Div 011
     Special Management Unit - Div 048
     Trust Accounts (Inmate) – Div 158
     Purchasing – Div 164
     Inmate Welfare Fund – Div 156
     Performance Recognition and Award System – Div 77
      Inmate Revenue Generating Activities – 30.1.6
 Attachments: Package Authorization Order Form (CD1712)

I.        PURPOSE

          To establish guidelines for Commissary operations that provide efficient uniform accounting,
          inventory and supply accountability, physical management and security of the Commissary,
          purchasing product within established DAS guidelines, providing statewide standardized
          personal use commodities for inmates to purchase that are not provided by the state,
          supporting positive inmate behavior through sales of approved incentive items, and
          operating in a profitable manner to sustain self-support while contributing to inmate welfare
          with excess revenues.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A.   Commissary: An operation within Department of Corrections facilities that sells various
               commodities to the inmate population.

          B.   Commissary Review Committee: A group authorized by the Statewide Commissary
               Manager to review and approve requested modifications to the Commissary product
               standardization list, seasonal product lists, and other policy-related issues if there is a
               potential safety and security risk to the institutions. The core group of this committee
               consists of the Statewide Commissary Manager and designated institutional operations
               staff. Other Department of Corrections staff will be included as is deemed necessary to
               the decision-making process.

          C.   Commissary Product Standardization List: A master list of product offerings containing
               departmentwide and institution-specific items.

Effective 9/1/16                               Page 1 of 8                                  Policy 40.2.3
       D.    Commissary Manager: The Distribution Services staff member designated to oversee
             Commissary operations and staff at a specific Commissary location, who has authority
             to make requests for modifications to the Commissary Product Standardization List and
             answers directly to the Statewide Commissary Manager.

       E.    Distribution Services Administrator: The staff member designated to oversee all
             Distribution Services operations and programs including statewide Commissary and
             satellite Commissary operations.

       F.    Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports
             to the Director, an Assistant Director, or Administrator and has responsibility for delivery
             of program services or coordination of program operations.

       G.    Distribution Services Business Manager: The staff member designated to assist the
             Statewide Commissary Manager and the Distribution Services Administrator with
             business operations and financial function interpretation. This position also is the
             primary Vendor Contract Administrator for Commissary and is the CORE initiative
             expert for Distribution Services.

       H.    Fundraisers: Events, goods or services approved by the functional unit manager to be
             purchased by inmates, staff or others, wherein the proceeds, after covering associated
             expenses are used to benefit a pre-approved cause.

       I.    Holiday Buying Period: A set period of time designated by the Assistant Director for
             Operations, during which inmates may be afforded an increased spending limit, special
             items to be stocked and made available for purchase, and debt may not be collected
             from inmate trust accounts per the department rules on Trust Accounts (Inmate)(OAR
             291-158).

       J.    Incentive Item Program: A program that rewards inmates who exhibit pro-social,
             proactive behavior and successfully program over a period of time by allowing them to
             purchase designated Commissary items available only for that purpose. These items
             are determined as non-cash incentive items for the Performance Recognition and
             Award System.

       K.    Income and Expense Statement: A financial document that measures revenue against
             expenses for a designated period of time and reflects resulting profit/loss.

       L.    Package Authorization: Package authorizations provide a means for inmates to
             purchase approved items not on the Commissary Product Standardization List.

       M.    Spending Period: An institution specific period of time scheduled within the seven day
             week during which inmates may place an order with the Commissary to purchase items.

       N.    Statewide Commissary Manager: The staff member designated to directly oversee all
             statewide Commissary operations, Commissary satellite operations, Eastside
             Warehouse, staff and business decisions.




III.   POLICY
Effective 9/1/16                              Page 2 of 8                                 Policy 40.2.3
       A.    Purchasing: Commissary managers will ensure, with signed approval that all
             commissary items ordered will be in accordance with Department of Corrections rules
             and policies governing purchasing and will purchase only those items approved on the
             Commissary Product Standardization List from vendors as authorized by contract or
             price agreement in accordance with the department’s rules on Purchasing (OAR 291-
             164). As the primary Vendor Contract Administrator, the Distribution Services Business
             Manager will maintain the correct list of products ordered to ensure contractual
             accountability and accuracy, in conjunction with the Statewide Commissary Manager.

       B.    Receiving: Distribution Services commissary staff are responsible for inspecting all
             product received from vendors to be free of damage or spoilage, for verifying the
             accuracy of shipments against vendor packing slips/invoices, and for proper receiving
             of purchase orders in the Commissary computerized inventory operating system.

       C.    Product Stock: Stock levels will be maintained as needed to support continuous sales
             within the confines of space limitations and profitable inventory turnover. Commissaries
             will carry additional approved stock during the holiday buying period only at levels
             necessary during that time frame.

       D.    Markup: Merchandise purchased by Commissary for resale to inmates will be marked
             up for all regular stock items, incentive items, and special order items.

             1.    Normally, markup will be based on a profitable business model, not to exceed a
                   manufacturer suggested retail price (MSRP). Unless otherwise directed, the
                   minimum markup for Commissary items will be at least 20% to provide for self-
                   supporting Commissary operating costs and Inmate Welfare Fund revenue.

             2.    The Distribution Services Business Manager will be responsible for ensuring the
                   proper markup is used to maintain a self-sustaining profit structure.

       E.    Price Lists/Order Forms: Prices and product availability are subject to change without
             prior notification and will occur any time there is a price fluctuation or supply shortage
             from a vendor. Products purchased in bulk or opportunity buys that are shipped into
             specific Commissary locations will be priced uniformly for all DOC Commissaries.
             Standardized pricing will be the responsibility of the Statewide Commissary Manager.

       F.    Hours of Operation: Each Institution, in conjunction with their servicing Commissary,
             will develop a schedule for Commissary operations as it pertains to distribution times
             and ordering/spending periods. This information will be made available to the inmates
             and will ensure they have the opportunity to purchase authorized items.

       G.    Quantity Limitations: Commissaries will not limit purchase quantities unless limited
             supplies dictate such needs. Any quantity limitations established will not conflict with
             the department rules on Personal Property (Inmate) (OAR 291-117).

       H.    Expenditure Limitations:

             1.    Expenditure limitations during a spending period are set within the Performance
                   Recognition and Award System (OAR 291-077). Expenditure limits may be
                   increased if the inmate is able to successfully qualify for a higher incentive level.

Effective 9/1/16                              Page 3 of 8                                 Policy 40.2.3
             2.   Certain items on the Commissary list are deemed exempt from expenditure limits
                  by decision of the Commissary Policy Review Committee. Expenditure limits may
                  be increased during the holiday buying period.

       I.    Other Sales and Functions:

             1.   Sales of items not on the approved Standardized Commissary Product List or
                  functions not consistent with normal Commissary operations (i.e. ordering of photo
                  reprints, postage purchases, copy credits, outside shoe purchases, etc.) must be
                  approved by Distribution Services Commissary Managers, the Statewide
                  Commissary Manager, or the Distribution Services Administrator and may be
                  discontinued at any time it is deemed necessary due to limitations on Commissary
                  resources and staffing.

             2.   If approved, it will be the responsibility of the requesting Functional Unit Manager,
                  in conjunction with the appropriate Distribution Services Commissary Manager, to
                  establish procedures to support the function.

        J.   Fundraisers: Per the DOC policy on Inmate Revenue Generating Activities
             (30.1.6), prior to implementation of any new program that could have the appearance
             of competing with commissary must be reviewed and approved by the Assistant
             Director of Operations or designee. Fundraisers are not to compete with commissary
             by selling like items. DOJs interpretation of like items is ‘a candy bar is a candy bar’. In
             other words, if commissary sells any type of candy bar then all candy bars would be
             considered like items.

        K.   Sales:

             1.   Inmates with fund balances in their general Trust Account will normally be
                  permitted to purchase from the Commissary within established stock and
                  expenditure limitations, except as limited by department rules governing:

                      •    LOP restrictions;
                      •    Segregation (Disciplinary) (OAR 291-011);
                      •    Administrative Housing (OAR 291-046);
                      •    Mental Health Special Housing (OAR 291-048);
                      •    Intensive Management Unit (OAR 291-055);
                      •    Death Row Housing (OAR 291-093); and
                      •    Infirmary.

             2.   Inmates are allowed to purchase one order per week, with the exception of special
                  order items. Additional orders may be approved by the Distribution Services
                  Commissary Manager.

             3.   Distribution Services Commissary staff will verify that funds are available in the
                  inmate’s general trust account prior to filling the order and distribution to the inmate.

             4.  When distributing Commissary orders to inmates, each inmate will be identified
                 from their department issued identification card and their order will be reconciled
                 to the sales receipt, making note of any discrepancies. Inmates are required to sign
                 the sales receipt acknowledging the merchandise received is accurate and
                 acceptable.
Effective 9/1/16                             Page 4 of 8                               Policy 40.2.3
                   a.          At no time will items be distributed to inmates before they have been
                         paid and signed for.

                   b.          During order distribution, Commissaries may not be able to
                         accommodate the timeframes of the various programs in the institutions and,
                         due to budget constraints and Commissary staffing resources, flexibility by
                         program managers may be necessary (i.e. OCE operations, Education,
                         Inmate Work Programs, etc.).

                   c.           At institutions or in situations where Commissary staff are unavailable
                         to distribute orders, designated staff will follow this procedure and send the
                         signed receipts to the servicing Commissary for archiving.

             5.    Signed sales receipts will be retained in Distribution Services Commissary archives
                   for an appropriate archiving period.

             6.    Certain items sold in Commissary are authorized as pre-sale items (i.e. shoes,
                   some incentive items or electronics, etc.). These items will be charged to the
                   inmate account if funds are available.

                   a.           The inmate will receive the item when the Commissary receives the
                         item in stock from the vendor.

                   b.            Inmates are required to inspect these items for fit and acceptability
                         prior to signing the sales receipt and taking possession of the product.

             7.    Certain items sold on Commissary that pose a risk to the safety and security of
                   department facilities (i.e. batteries, guitar strings, etc.) will be distributed on a one-
                   for-one basis to inmates purchasing such items. The Commissary Review
                   Committee will determine which items need to be handled in this manner.

        L.   Physical Inventory:

             1.    Each Commissary location shall complete a physical inventory of all products by
                   the end of each fiscal quarter. All satellite Commissary locations must account for
                   their inventory and report to the Distribution Services Commissary Manager
                   weekly.

             2.    This function will be completed by series of cycle counts throughout the quarter
                   and a complete physical inventory conducted at the end of each fiscal year (as
                   close to June 30th as scheduling allows).

             3.    The results of the complete physical inventory will be reported to the Statewide
                   Commissary Manager and Distribution Services Administrator for the purpose of
                   developing an annual revenues and expenditure statement.

        M.   Revenue and Expenditure Statement: Statewide Commissaries will generate a
             quarterly and fiscal year ending revenue and expenditure statement to report profit/loss,
             assets, accounts payable, accounts receivable, operating costs and sales totals. This
             report is coordinated through DOC Central Accounting with the assistance of Central

Effective 9/1/16                                Page 5 of 8                                   Policy 40.2.3
             Trust Accounting, Distribution Services Business Manager, and the Statewide
             Commissary Manager.

        N.   Inmate Workers:

             1.    Inmate Commissary workers must have one year clear conduct and have or be
                   working towards their GED to be eligible to work in the Commissaries.

             2.    Inmate Commissary workers are only authorized to bring their ID cards, personal
                   reading glasses and daily prescription medication to where Commissary is
                   distributed. All other items are unauthorized.

             3.    Inmates will be authorized to work in the Commissary areas under direct staff
                   supervision and in accordance with the department rule governing Inmate
                   Assignment Management (OAR 291-201).

             4.    Direct supervision of inmates will include routine inmate pat downs and area
                   searches at any time a worker leaves or reenters the immediate Commissary work
                   area. Staff will perform random pat downs and area searches throughout the work
                   day.

             5.    Inmate Commissary workers may assist with the actual counting of product during
                   physical inventory, development of vendor orders or receiving; however, all counts
                   must be verified by Commissary staff before use as official documentation.

                   a.          Inmate Commissary workers will not assist with account transactions
                        for other inmates or be allowed to view account information or criminology
                        histories of other inmates.

                   b.          At no time will inmate Commissary workers be allowed to assist in
                        duties which may compromise the security or safety in department facilities.

        O.   Commissary Area Security:

             1.    Commissary staff will provide security measures during the order-filling, computer
                   scanning, and bagging process to prevent theft of goods and monitor other inmate
                   work area activities. Security staff will be present during distribution of orders to
                   inmates to assist with problem inmates and aid in the detection of possible extortion
                   issues centered on Commissary items.

             2.    Commissary functions will be conducted in accordance with department security
                   audit standards.

             3.    Product stock in excess of normal Commissary business needs will be kept in a
                   secured back stock storage area. Inmate Commissary worker access to back stock
                   areas must be under direct staff supervision.

             4.    All Commissary stocking areas and offices will be secured when Commissary staff
                   are not present.

             5.    Commissary trash will be inspected prior to removal from the premises to prevent
                   theft of goods and potential movement of contraband. Any documents, to be
Effective 9/1/16                              Page 6 of 8                                 Policy 40.2.3
                   disposed that may contain information about other inmates will be shredded or hot
                   trashed by Commissary staff. Any damaged product to be disposed will be
                   completely destroyed by or in the presence of Commissary staff to prevent the
                   reintroduction of the product by inmates for credit or other unauthorized use.

        P.   Commissary Area Access:

             1.    Only staff, inmate workers, or vendors authorized by the Distribution Services
                   Commissary Manager or the institution Functional Unit Manager will have access
                   to the Commissary area during normal operating hours.

             2.    After hours entry to Commissary areas must be authorized by the Distribution
                   Services Commissary Manager, Officer of the Day, OIC or designee. If no
                   approving authority is available and there is an emergent event requiring entry, a
                   written report of the event must be submitted to the Commissary Manager within
                   24 hours of entry.

        Q.   Commissary Sanitation: All Commissary areas will be maintained in a clean and orderly
             manner consistent with department directives concerning safety and sanitation.

        R.   Package Authorization Process:

             1.    An inmate fills out section 1 of the Package Authorization form (CD1712) and
                   submits it to the Institution Security Manager or designee at their institution.

                   a.   The new package authorization process does not apply to medical, dental,
                        mental health or religious items, books, magazines, newspapers or other
                        periodicals.

                   b.   Inmates are not permitted to purchase shoes unless Commissary does not
                        sell a shoe in their size.

                   c.   Shoes will not be approved for orthopedic reasons. If an inmate has orthopedic
                        needs, orthopedic inserts will be approved, not shoes.

             2.    The Institution Security Manager or designee will approve or deny the request at
                   the institution level.

                   a.   If the Institution Security Manager denies the request at the institution level, it
                        will be immediately returned to the inmate by the Institution Security Manager.

                   b.   If the Institution Security Manager approves the request at the institution level,
                        the Institution Security Manager will bring the package authorization request
                        to the Institution Security Manager meeting for statewide approval.

             3.    If the package authorization is approved at the statewide level, it will be given to
                   the Statewide Commissary Manager to process. Items will be shipped to NWC and
                   distributed to the inmate with their normal commissary order.

             4.    Commissary will realize a profit equitable to the current mark up of other
                   commissary items.

Effective 9/1/16                               Page 7 of 8                                  Policy 40.2.3
             5.    Inmates will be charged for the approved package authorization item through the
                   Commissary Accounting System (TAG).

             6.    Commissaries will provide history and tracking of all associated purchases under
                   this program.

             7.    Package authorization requests may not be filled with requested brand name
                   products but will meet the need as described on the request (e.g., if the inmate
                   requests a brand name cross trainer tennis shoe in size 20, Commissary will look
                   for a size 20 tennis shoe that is similar to the designs already sold on Commissary).

             8.    All sales will be considered final. Damage done during shipping will be reviewed
                   and disposition determined on a case-by-case basis.

IV.     IMPLEMENTATION

       Operational procedures will be developed and approved by the Distribution Services
       Statewide Commissary Operations Manager for all warehouse bagging operations,
       Commissary storefronts, Commissary bagging distribution sites, and Commissary satellite
       distribution sites to maintain consistency with this policy.



Certified: ______signature on file__________________
Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _____signature on file__________________
Kim Brockamp, Deputy Director




Effective 9/1/16                              Page 8 of 8                                 Policy 40.2.3
