                                 DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                      Human Resources

 Title:              Identification Cards                              DOC Policy: 20.5.15
 Effective:          5/17/10                                           Supercedes: 8/18/08
 Applicability: All employees, contractors and volunteers
 Directives Cross - Reference:
     Rules:    Facility Access Div 016
     Policies: Code of Ethics #20.1.2
               Code of Conduct #2.1.3
 Attachments:
        Attachment A – DOC Identification Card Procedures
        Form – Functional Unit ID Card Coordinator Agreement (CD 1416)
        Form – Retirement ID, Limitations and Expectations (CD 1535)

I.        PURPOSE

          To describe the process for official issuance and use of Department of Corrections
          identification cards.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A.   Contractor: Any person employed under contractual agreement to provide services to
               the Department of Corrections.

          B.   DPSST: Department of Public Safety Standards and Training.

          C.   Employee: Any person employed full-time, part-time or under temporary appointment
               by the Department of Corrections.

          D.   Functional Unit: Any organizational component within the Department of Corrections
               responsible for the delivery of services or coordination of program operations.

          E.   Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports
               to the Director, Assistant Director or Administrator and has responsibility for delivery of
               program services or coordination of program operations.

          F.   Identification Card (ID card): A picture identification card authorized by the Department
               of Corrections and issued to a Department employee, contractor or volunteer.

          G.   Name: Legal name or approved contraction of name must be listed on the ID card.

          H.   Other Agency Liaison: Employees from other state and local agencies that have
               ongoing business needs serving inmates and employees of the department. These
               employees include, but are not limited to, parole and probation officers and state police
               detectives.



Effective 5/17/10                           Page of 1 of 3                                Policy 20.5.15
       I.    Volunteer: Any approved person who donates his/her time and effort to enhance the
             activities and programs of the Department (includes practicum students and interns).


III.   POLICY

       A.    The ID card shall be issued to each employee, contractor and volunteer as defined by
             this policy and ID card procedures (Attachment A).

       B.    The ID card is the property of the department. The card shall be surrendered upon
             request of the unit manager or designee, upon suspension or termination of
             employment, contract, assignment or services with the department.

       C.    Persons issued a Department ID card are required to have the card with them when
             acting in any official capacity or when entering any grounds or facilities owned or
             operated by the department. Cardholders are required to display the card for
             identification upon request by a Department employee.

       D.    Department ID cards are restricted in use to the performance of official duties in
             accordance with the DOC Policies 20.1.2 - Code of Ethics and 20.1.3 - Code of
             Conduct. No ID cardholders are to use the ID card to solicit or receive special favor or
             consideration. Misuse of the ID card may result in suspension of the card and/or
             disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.

       E.    Each person issued a Department ID card is responsible to protect the card from
             damage and prevent its theft or misuse. Applicable charges for replacement of an ID
             card may be assessed if the card is lost or is damaged due to neglect.

       F.    Upon retirement of an employee with DPSST parole and probation officer certification,
             that employee retiring in good standing from service, DOC shall provide the employee
             with ID that identifies him/her as a Retired Parole/Probation Officer. Issuance of the ID
             by the Department to, and use by, the retired parole and probation officer is conditioned
             upon the retired parole and probation officer’s acknowledgment and agreement to abide
             by the limitations and expectations that are reflected in the limitations/expectations
             acknowledgment that the employee must sign. (CD Form #1535)

       G.    Department card categories:

              1.      Employee ID card – white, 5-year expiration date
                       Management service-Security: Gold Star Watermark
                       Security Staff: Silver Star Watermark
                       Non-Security: DOC Shield Watermark

              2.      Contractor ID card – blue, 3-year expiration date
                       Contractors: DOC Shield Watermark

              3.      Volunteer ID card – yellow, 3-year expiration date
                       Volunteers: DOC Shield Watermark



              4.      Other agency ID card – green, 2-year expiration date

Effective 5/17/10                         Page of 2 of 3                               Policy 20.5.15
                         Other agencies: DOC Shield Watermark

              a.     Parole and Probation – green, 5-year expiration date
                      Parole and Probation: DOC shield Watermark

              b.     Retired Parole/Probation Officer - purple, no expiration date
                      Parole and Probation: DOC shield Watermark

IV.    IMPLEMENTATION

       This policy shall be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: _signature on file____________________
Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _signature on file___________________
Mitch Morrow, Deputy Director




Effective 5/17/10                        Page of 3 of 3                              Policy 20.5.15
                                                                               Attachment A

                         DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                       IDENTIFICATION CARD PROCEDURES
I.   Issuance

     A.    The Department ID Card Coordinator shall maintain a sufficient supply of the
           hologram overlay and ribbon in a secure storage area.

     B.    Each Functional Unit Manager shall designate an employee(s) as ID Card
           Coordinator(s) for his/her functional unit, and notify the Department ID Card
           Coordinator.

     C.    Functional unit ID Card Coordinator must sign a letter of agreement (Attachment
           B, CD1416, 10/02) regarding their ID Card Coordinator responsibilities, along with
           a signature card to be returned to the Department ID Card Coordinator for file.
           Department ID Card Coordinator will assign an approval code to each functional
           unit ID Card Coordinator for electronic form submission.

     D.    Prior to initiating the ID Card Request Form CD672D (Attachment C), the functional
           unit ID Card Coordinator shall ensure the person issued an ID card has supplied
           fingerprints to be sent to the Oregon State Police Identification Bureau, and has
           met standards via criminal history check LEDS that will not compromise the
           security sound order or discipline of the facility.

     E.    Functional unit ID Card Coordinators are responsible to provide, have prior
           approval for, and verify:

           1.     Multiple institutions on volunteers, contractors, other agency staff and
                  service providers must be specified on the request form, (coordinates with
                  institution Superintendents for approval, either in writing or by email, from
                  the Superintendent to Department ID Card Coordinator for volunteers,
                  contractors, other agency staff and service providers).

           2.     Department of Public Safety Standards Training (DPSST) number for
                  security staff (copy of card attached to request form).

     F.    ID cards for contractors shall designate the facilities(s) where the contractor is
           allowed access. Facility access is designated on the back of the card, in
           accordance with the Facility Access rule OAR 291-016-0050.

     G.    Prior to issuance, the designated Volunteer Services Manager will approve the ID
           cards for volunteers. Volunteer ID cards shall have the functional unit name and
           the position name (i.e., Religious, Clerk, Teaching Assistant, Practicum, etc.).
           Institution access designated on the request form is shown on the back of the ID
           card.

     H.    The functional unit ID Card Coordinator shall complete an ID Card Request Form
           (CD672D, Attachment C) and send it either electronically or in written form to the
           Department ID Card Coordinator.

     I.    The Department ID Card Coordinator will verify information, authorization, update
           AS400 system then issue an ID card number. The Department ID Card


                               Attachment A – Page 1 of 3
          Coordinator emails the functional unit ID Card Coordinator with the employee’s ID
          card number.

   J.     Functional unit ID Card Coordinator is responsible for digital photo and completion
          of request form.

   K.     Department ID Card Coordinator is responsible for reviewing for errors, pulling and
          auditing data.

   L.     The Director’s signature will be on each ID card electronically.

   M.     All completed ID cards for the Salem area are sent by Department intra agency
          mail. All completed ID cards outside of Salem are sent by UPS second day air with
          tracking.

   N.     The functional unit ID Card Coordinator will review all cards before release to
          employee, volunteer, contractor, other agency staff or service provider.

   O.     The Department ID Card Coordinator shall file the most recent ID Card Request
          form. Employee ID Card Request forms shall go in the employee personnel file;
          the contractor and volunteer forms shall go in the contractor/volunteer alpha ID
          card files.

II. Denial and Appeal

   A.     All ID cards are subject to denial by the Department ID Card Coordinator or
          designee.

   B.     Denials may be appealed in writing within 30 days to the Assistant Director of
          Human Resources.

III. Replacement

   A.     A new ID card with the same number will be issued any time information on the
          card has been changed, on the date of expiration, or if the card has been damaged
          lost or stolen.

   B.     If the card is lost or stolen the ID card holder shall immediately notify the functional
          ID card coordinator with the relevant information. The functional unit ID Card
          Coordinator shall notify the Department ID Card Coordinator, who shall notify all
          functional unit ID Card Coordinators and security managers. The functional unit ID
          Card Coordinator shall follow issuance instructions to create a new ID card.

   C.     The ID card holder shall surrender the previously issued ID card (unless lost or
          stolen) when they have received a replacement. The functional unit ID Card
          Coordinator shall send the previously issued ID card to the Department ID Card
          Coordinator immediately after they have received the new ID card.

   D.     The Department ID Card Coordinator verifies replacement card and destroys old
          card.

   E.     A replacement fee of $5 for lost, stolen or damaged cards is payable either by
          check or money order.


                                Attachment A – Page 2 of 3
IV.        Suspension

           A.    The Appointing Authority or designee may suspend the authorization to use the ID
                 card if the card holder has been inactive from duty for substantial period of time,
                 terminated, or compromised the security, sound order, or discipline of the facility.

           B.    The Functional Unit Manager shall immediately notify the appointing authority of
                 the reason(s) an ID card should be suspended. If the Appointing Authority agrees
                 with the reason(s) for suspension, the Appointing Authority shall notify the
                 Department ID Card Coordinator of the suspension.

           C.    Once notified by the appointing authority of the suspension of the ID card, the
                 Functional Unit Manager shall request the cardholder to return the ID card.

           D.    Any ID card holder notified verbally and/or in writing of the suspension of his/her
                 ID card shall immediately surrender or return the ID card to the functional unit
                 manager or designee.

           E.    The Department ID Card Coordinator shall maintain a record of all issued,
                 returned, terminated, replaced, damaged, lost, stolen and suspended ID cards.

           F.    The Department ID Card Coordinator shall provide the functional unit ID Card
                 Coordinators and Security Managers with a monthly list of all lost, stolen, and
                 suspended ID cards.

        V. Separations

           A.    Functional Unit Manager notifies Functional Unit Coordinator

           B.    Functional Unit Manager or Functional Unit Coordinator collects card.

           C.    Functional Unit Coordinator sends separated employee, volunteer, contractor card
                 to the Department ID Card Coordinator.

           D.    Department ID Card Coordinator updates ID card database and then destroys the
                 card.

  VI.      Record Retentions

           A.    Request forms will be destroyed if the contractor or volunteer’s information is not
                 in the photo-card database within 30 days.

           B.    Only current ID card requests, photos and information will remain on file. For
                 employees, retention is ten years after separation, unless the ID Card is for a
                 Retired Parole/Probation officer, and then the file will be retained until notification
                 of the employee’s death. For volunteers, contractors, and others retention is two
                 years after separation.




                                      Attachment A – Page 3 of 3
