                                   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                      Administrative Services

 Title:              Resource Conservation                        DOC Policy: 10.1.4
 Effective:          3/27/25                                      Supersedes: 11/01/2016
 Applicability:      All functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
         ORS 468A.205 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Goals
         DOE Rule OAR 330-130-0010 Energy Efficient Design & Operation for State Agency
                                    Facilities
         DAS Policy 107-011-010 Energy and Resource Conservation
         DAS Policy 107-009-0080-PO Green Chemistry Procurement Guidelines
 Attachments: None

I.        PURPOSE

          To identify resource conservation and associated cost savings measures in facilities;
          establish guidelines to promote sustainable practices for energy, water, recycling,
          composting, waste prevention and procurement of environmentally preferred products;
          and to implement efficient building operations and behavior-based practices to
          demonstrate leadership, reduce costs, and ensure state agencies contribute to state
          government’s goals for energy efficient buildings.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A. Biochemical Oxygen Demand: Measure of the amount of dissolved oxygen needed
             by aerobic microorganisms (like bacteria) to decompose organic matter in a water
             sample over a specific time period and at a specific temperature.

          B. Energy Coach: An expert provided by the Energy Trust of Oregon who provides
             coaching and guidance on energy conservation and sustainability efforts.

          C. Strategic Energy Management (SEM): A program offered by Energy Trust of Oregon
             that provides the tools and education for organizations to start improving energy
             efficiency.

          D. Total Suspended Solids: Non-dissolved particles in water, measured by filtering a
             water sample and weighing the retained solids, which can include silt, clay, sand,
             algae, and plant material.

III.      POLICY



Effective: 3/27/25                            Page 1 of 5                               Policy 10.1.4
        A.       The department will purchase, account for, control, and utilize all property in
                 compliance with the Department of Administrative Services policy on Energy and
                 Resource Conservation (DAS policy 107-011-010) and all other applicable statutes,
                 administrative rules, and departmental procedures.

        B.       Sustainable Construction, Maintenance and Energy Conservation

                 The department will:

                     1.   Meet key performance measure of a 20 percent reduction in non-
                          renewable resources in existing buildings through construction and retrofits
                          per OAR 330-130-0010 Energy Efficient Design and Operation for State
                          Agency Facilities.

                          a. Review monthly utility bills (electricity, natural gas, and other fuels) to
                             manage energy consumption.

                          b. Report energy use for state-owned buildings for each calendar year to
                             Oregon Department of Energy.

                     2.   Identify cost-effective retrofits to meet 100 percent of new electricity
                          growth.

                     3.   Reduce greenhouse gas emissions as required by ORS 468A.205
                          Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Goals.

                     4.   Identify and replace greenhouse gas-emitting energy resources with
                          cleaner technologies.

                     5.   Institute practices that reduce waste by increasing product efficiency and
                          effectiveness.

                     6.   Identify, replace, and upgrade lighting to automatic lights where
                          appropriate and turn off lighting after normal operations in office space and
                          in unoccupied rooms.

        C.       Strategic Energy Management (SEM):

                 1.       For the department’s Strategic Energy Management offering, each
                          institution will identify participants to work with an Energy Coach during the
                          Strategic Energy Management enrollment period.




Effective: 3/27/25                               Page 2 of 5                                 Policy 10.1.4
                 2.   Participant commits to working with Energy Trust and its authorized
                      representatives, including an Energy Coach and Existing Buildings Program
                      Management Contractor (PMC), to develop and implement a continuous
                      improvement process for energy management for its enrolled building(s),

                 3.   Participant will access and use a designated software platform to develop
                      energy models and track energy saving actions and performance at enrolled
                      site(s).

                 4.   Energy data, as well as other company data (schedules, occupancy, company
                      holidays, number of occupants, leased square footage, event days, etc.) will
                      be used to establish baseline energy consumption to analyze energy use and
                      determine energy performance improvement.

                 5.   Participant will coordinate with the energy coach for regular and active
                      participation in Strategic Energy Management training and monitoring
                      activities, including workshops, training sessions, meetings, and status
                      phone calls.

        D.       Water Conservation

                 The department will:

                 1.   Fully conform to local water system requests to conserve water. In drought
                      or other water emergency, state-owned facilities and leased sites should
                      seek ways to demonstrate leadership in water conservation practices.

                 2.   Repair leaks and, where applicable, install water-saving devices.

                 3.   Reduce impacts of biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids
                      to sewer systems that allow for the conservation of water without incurring
                      additional sewer charges.

                 4.   Develop a strategy for a ten (10) percent reduction in contaminates that
                      result in biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids surcharges.

                 5.   Reduce the area of irrigated landscaping.

                 6.   Use drought-tolerant native plants for landscaping.


        E.       Good Recycling Practices

                 The department will:


Effective: 3/27/25                           Page 3 of 5                                  Policy 10.1.4
                 1.   Conduct waste audits to calculate waste and recycling rates and identify
                      opportunities to reduce waste and recycle.

                 2.   Establish procedures, mechanisms, and collection systems within each
                      building for the proper separation and disposal of recycled items.

                 3.   Ensure food waste recycling and composting is addressed at institutions.

        F.       Procurement

                 The department will:

                 1.   Reduce waste and impacts to the environment by strategically purchasing
                      and focusing on environmentally responsible products and services.

                 2.   Ensure products and services are cost effective, and conserve natural
                      resources, material, and energy.

                 3.   Purchase products that minimize environmental impacts, toxins, pollution,
                      and hazards to the greatest extent practicable.

                 4.   Procure electronics and appliances that are UL Listed, meet the Federal
                      Energy Management Program and are Energy Star® certified.

                 5.   Ensure the environmentally responsible option is utilized whenever the
                      product or service is comparable in quality, availability, and price.

                 6.   Be conscious of the recyclability and recycled content of products.

                 7.   Utilize statewide contracts to encourage suppliers and contractors to offer
                      environmentally preferable products and services at competitive prices.

                 8.   Encourage providers of services to consider environmental impacts of
                      service delivery.

                 9.   Purchase office supplies, janitorial equipment, and chemicals that indicate
                      that they are either environmentally responsible or made of post-consumer
                      or postindustrial recycled materials.

                10.   Purchase all environmentally responsible janitorial chemicals from the
                      Central Distribution Center Warehouse. These janitorial chemicals are on the
                      state-wide price agreement, and the Procurement Office will oversee
                      compliance and mandatory reporting per Department of Administrative


Effective: 3/27/25                           Page 4 of 5                               Policy 10.1.4
                     Services policy on Green Chemistry Procurement Guidelines (DAS policy 107-
                     009-0080).

IV.     IMPLEMENTATION

        This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: ______signature on file__________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ______signature on file__________
Michael Reese, Director




Effective: 3/27/25                         Page 5 of 5                              Policy 10.1.4
