                                  DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                        Administration
                      Accessibility for Adults in Custody
 Title:                                                       DOC Policy: 40.2.14
                      with Disabilities
 Effective:           11/06/20                                Supersedes: N/A
 Applicability:       DOC employees, contractors, volunteers and OCE employees
 Directives Cross-Reference:
         Rule: 291-006 Discrimination Complaint Review System (AIC)
                  291-109 Grievance Review System (AIC)
         Policy: 40.2.11 Effective Communication Policy
         Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 42 U.S.C. § 12101
         ORS 659A.104

I. PURPOSE
   The purpose of this policy is to ensure that qualified adults in custody (AICs) with disabilities are
   included in participation in and have access to the benefits of Department of Corrections (DOC)
   programs, services, and activities as provided by and consistent with Department rules, state
   law, and federal law.

II. DEFINITIONS

   A. Accessibility request: A request to modify department rules, policies, or practices, to remove
      architectural, communication, or transportation barriers, or to provide auxiliary aids and
      services for a qualified AIC with a disability to participate in or access the benefits of
      department programs, services, or activities.

   B. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Oregon Department of
      Corrections who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

   C. Americans with Disability Act (ADA): The federal law, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
      42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq., as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law
      110-325.)

   D. Disability: As defined in ORS 659A.104, disability means, with respect to an individual, a
      physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities
      of an individual, a record of such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an
      impairment. This term shall be construed consistently with ORS 659A.104, including any
      exceptions and rules of construction.

   E. Institution AIC ADA Coordinator: DOC employee(s) at each institution or facility who are
      assigned to ensure compliance with state and federal law governing access to department
      programs, services, and activities for individuals with disabilities, and to coordinate efforts


Effective: 11/06/20                           Page 1 of 6                                Policy 40.2.14
       to comply with and carry out responsibilities under the ADA regard to AICs and respond to
       AIC ADA grievances.

   F. Major Life Activities: This term shall be construed consistently with ORS 659A.104, including
      any exceptions and rules of construction, and otherwise includes but is not limited to, caring
      for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing,
      lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking,
      communicating, and working.

   G. Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator: A DOC employee or designee who is designated to carry out
      the Department’s responsibilities to comply with state and federal anti-discrimination laws
      concerning incarcerated persons with disabilities, including investigation and resolution of
      accessibility requests.

III. POLICY

   A. Intake Process

       Upon arriving at intake, or during new AIC orientation, AICs will be provided the following
       information using an effective means of communication:

       1. DOC Effective Communication Policy 40.2.11;

       2. Notice of Rights for Offenders with Disabilities (form #1871); and

       3. Institution AIC ADA Coordinator contact card (form #1870).

   B. Institution Employee Responsibility

       1. Reasonable efforts will be made by employees to identify AICs with disabilities at each
          DOC institution or facility.

       2. The identification process will be interactive and include employee observations, AIC
          reports, or documentation of an AIC’s disability.

       3. Referrals will be made to Health Services or the Institution AIC ADA Coordinator for
          evaluation if a disability is suspected by an employee that would affect access to DOC
          programs, services, or activities or if the AIC reports a disability that would affect access
          to DOC programs, services, or activities.

       4. Behavioral Health Services (BHS) may identify an AIC as having a developmental or
          intellectual disability if eligible and enrolled in their services.

   C. AIC ADA Accessibility

       1. The Statewide AIC ADA coordinator may review an AIC’s related protected medical
          information, consult with DOC Health Services, and request medical assessments in

Effective: 11/06/20                         Page 2 of 6                                 Policy 40.2.14
           accordance with health services policies and standards for the purposes of providing ADA
           accessibility and ensuring agency compliance.

       2. The Institution AIC ADA Coordinator will develop a process to ensure that employee(s)
          receive updated information regarding specific needs of AICs with disabilities.

   D. Accessibility Request Determinations

       1. All accessibility requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis consistent with
          applicable state and federal anti-discrimination laws. The Institution AIC ADA
          coordinator will investigate the request prior to making a determination.

       2. The Institution AIC ADA Coordinator may approve the accessibility request, with or
          without modifications that are agreed to by the AIC or forward the request to the
          Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator for further review.

       3. The Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator may request a health services assessment and
          schedule a meeting or phone conference with the AIC and any involved employee in
          order to facilitate the interactive accessibility process.

       4. The Institution AIC ADA Coordinator will provide the AIC with a written response to all
          written requests received by the Institution AIC ADA Coordinator and will distribute any
          approved accessibility requests to the appropriate parties.

       5. Institution AIC ADA Coordinators are responsible to ensure that all approved accessibility
          requests are implemented.

       6. AICs may refuse or discontinue an approved or offered disability accessibility, whether
          that is a modification to DOC rules, policies, or practices, removal of architectural,
          communication, or transportation aids, or the provision of auxiliary aids or services.

           a. The Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator, in consultation with the Inspector General or
              designee and Health Services will review any refusal or discontinuation of any
              disability accessibility.

           b. The Institution AIC ADA Coordinator will be notified of all refusals or discontinuations
              of approved disability accessibility and shall in turn notify any section of the
              institution that needs to be informed of the refusal or discontinuation. The Institution
              AIC ADA Coordinator shall ensure that any necessary records are updated.

           c. For a refused accessibility to be reinstated, the AIC must resubmit an accessibility
              request.

     E. Accessibility Request Denials



Effective: 11/06/20                        Page 3 of 6                                 Policy 40.2.14
       1. All denied accessibility requests are determined by the Inspector General or designee
          and Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator in consultation with the Institution AIC ADA
          Coordinator, and must include one or more of the following justifications:

           a. Undue financial or administrative burden: i.e. budgetary constraints or creation of an
              organizational or employee obligation which cannot be reasonably accomplished;

           b. Fundamental alteration to the purpose of the service, program, or activity: i.e.
              modifications to work assignments which result in operational disruptions or
              elimination of program requirements which directly correlate to the purpose or
              efficacy of the program;

           c. Direct threat of significant or substantial harm to the safety and security of the
              institution, AIC population, or public safety that cannot be reduced or eliminated: i.e.
              modification or elimination of safety or security practices;

           d. The AIC does not have a disability that substantially affects major life activities;

           e. The AIC is not otherwise qualified to participate in the DOC program, service, or
              activity the AIC is seeking access to in the accessibility request;

           f. The accessibility request would not be effective in making DOC programs, services,
              or activities accessible to that AIC;

           g. The accessibility request does not relate to the AIC’s disability;

           h. Medical issue: Request is for or about medical care and treatment: i.e. prescription
              medication, health care equipment, or medical or housing restrictions; or

           i.   Unreasonable: i.e. records or investigation does not support a substantial limitation
                or disability access issue, or a reasonable, equally effective alternative is available.

       2. Regardless of the outcome of the accessibility request, Institution AIC ADA coordinators
          may take the necessary steps to resolve any legitimate allegation of disability
          discrimination to ensure compliance with state and federal anti-discrimination laws,
          including but not limited to: policy and practice adjustment, resolving criteria that tends
          to screen out AICs with disabilities, or initiating AIC movement to accessible housing in
          accordance with classification regardless of disability.

   F. Emergency Evacuation
            Each institution shall ensure the safe and effective evacuation of AICs and shall develop
            evacuation procedures specific to the institution in order to address the needs of AICs
            with disabilities.
   G. ADA Training


Effective: 11/06/20                          Page 4 of 6                                 Policy 40.2.14
       1. The Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator and the Institution AIC ADA coordinators will receive
          specialized training in ADA.

       2. All new DOC employees, contractors, and volunteers will complete ADA training.

       3. All DOC employees, contractors, and volunteers will complete annual ADA refresher
          training.

   H. Americans with Disability Act Complaint Process

       1. All allegations regarding alleged discrimination or any related ADA concerns will be filed
          utilizing the process outlined in OAR 291-109 Grievance Review System (AIC). The
          Institution ADA Coordinator will be assigned to assist in the investigation, the complaint
          will be responded to by the Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator in consultation with the
          Institution ADA Coordinator. All appeals with be processed in accordance with OAR 291-
          109 Grievance Review System (AIC.

       2. Allegations of inappropriate comments to or about an AIC’s disability will be filed
          utilizing the process outlined in OAR 291-006 (Discrimination Complaint Review
          System). The Institution Discrimination Complaint Coordinator, or other assigned staff,
          will coordinate the investigation. The Discrimination complaint will be responded to by
          the appropriate Functional Unit Manager. The discrimination complaint appeal will be
          processed in accordance with OAR 291-006.

       3. AICs have the right to correspond with and receive a response from an Institution AIC
          ADA Coordinator or the Statewide AIC ADA Coordinator regarding concerns of disability
          discrimination or any ADA related matter.

       4. The Institution AIC ADA Coordinator cannot be grieved for claims involving medical
          treatment or the scope and quality of medical care. Grievances claiming such issues
          shall be made against the appropriate Health Services provider.

   I. Responsibility
     The Inspector General or designee within the Office of the Inspector General has the final
     authority on determination and enforcement of the ADA within the DOC as it pertains to AICs
     and institution operations.



IV. IMPLEMENTATION

     This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.




Effective: 11/06/20                        Page 5 of 6                               Policy 40.2.14
Certified: _____signature on file ____________
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator



Approved: _____signature on file ___________
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective: 11/06/20                      Page 6 of 6   Policy 40.2.14
