                                      DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                           Employee Services


Title:             Blood Borne Pathogens                                     DOC Policy: 20.6.7
Effective:         3/6/24                                                    Supersedes: 12/01/15
Applicability:     All Employees, Students, Volunteers and Contract Service Providers
Directives Cross-Reference:
                 ORS 179.505 Disclosure of Written Accounts by Health Care Services Provider
                 ORS 192.558 Use or Disclosure by Health Care Provider or State Health Plan
                 ORS 433.085 HIV and Hepatitis Test at Request of Law Enforcement Officer
                 OAR 437, Division 2, Subdivision Z, Toxic and Hazardous Substances, 1910.1030 BBP
                 OAR 437-002-1030 Additional Oregon Rules for Bloodborne Pathogens
                 OAR 437-002-1035 Oregon Rule for Sharps Injury Log
                 DOC Policy 20.1.3 Code of Conduct
                 DOC Policy 20.1.7 Promotion and Maintenance of a Respectful Workplace
                 DOC Health Services P-B-02.2 Exposure Control Plan
Attachments:
        Attachment A – Employee Information Following Exposure
        Attachment B – Post Exposure – Roles/Responsibilities/Duties
        Attachment C – Outline of BBP Roles and Responsibilities
        Attachment D – Instructions for Filling Out Affidavit, Petition, and Order for Required
                      Medical Testing
        Form CD1398 – Offer/Declination of Hep B Vaccination
        Form CD1401 – Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s Duties & Description
        Form CD1402 – Post-Exposure Follow-Up Checklist
        Form CD1947 – Treating Physician Authorization Release of Information

I.       PURPOSE
         To eliminate or minimize exposure to blood borne pathogens in the workplace by providing
         consistent guidance to all Department of Corrections (DOC) employees, supervisors and
         managers, and volunteers and contract service providers.
         To provide guidance for the post-exposure process.


II.      DEFINITIONS
         A.   Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of
              Corrections who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.
         B.   Adult on Supervision: Any person under the supervision of the Department of
              Corrections who is on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.
         C.   Blood Borne Pathogens (BBP): Disease-causing microorganisms present in human
              blood. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV),



Effective 3/6/24                           Page 1 of 7                                  Policy 20.6.7
             Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
       D.    Blood Borne Pathogens Safety Oversight Committee: The statewide multi-disciplinary
             committee responsible for conducting ongoing reviews of policies, plans, practices,
             training, exposure incidents, and equipment selection including medical sharps. The
             committee makes recommendations to the Director and appropriate managers to
             accomplish the aims and requirements of this policy and applicable regulations.
       E.    Contaminated Laundry: Laundry that has been soiled with blood or other potentially
             infectious materials or that may contain sharps.
       F.    Critical Incident Stress Management Team (CISM): A team responsible for the
             prevention and mitigation of disabling stress among emergency responders in
             accordance with the standards of the International Critical Incident Stress Foundation.
       G.    Engineering Controls: Controls (e.g., sharps containers, self-sheathing needles, etc.)
             that isolate or reduce the blood borne pathogen hazards from the workplace.
       H.    Exposure Control Plan: A written document which identifies occupational hazards and
             specifies the methods of protecting and training employees (DOC Health Services policy
             P-B-02.2 Exposure Control Plan).
       I.    Exposure Incident: Occurs when blood or other potentially infectious materials comes into
             direct contact with eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or penetrated skin.
             If blood or other potentially infectious material comes into contact with anything but
             mucous membrane or non-intact skin, it is considered indirect contact.
       J.    Facility Safety Liaison: Main contact for each specific location to facilitate safety related
             questions or concerns.
       K.    Job Hazard Analysis (JHA): A part of risk assessment in which the hazards that come
             along with a certain job or workplace are identified and mitigated before they occur.
       L.    Licensed Health Care Professional: A person who possesses a valid professional medical
             license and can provide consultation and medical treatment.
       M.    Other Potentially Infectious Materials (OPIM): Includes, but is not limited to, semen,
             vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, and
             any bodily fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood. Note: Feces, urine, nasal
             secretions, sputum, sweat, tears, and vomitus are not considered OPIM unless they
             contain visible blood.
       N.    Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an
             employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants,
             shirts, or blouses) are not intended to function as protection against a hazard and are
             not considered personal protective equipment.
       O.    Regulated Waste: Liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious materials;
             contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious materials
             in a liquid or semi-liquid state, if compressed; items that are caked with dried blood or
             other potentially infectious materials and are capable of releasing these materials
             during handling; contaminated sharps; and pathological and microbiological wastes
             containing blood or other potentially infectious materials.
       P.    Sharps: Any object that can penetrate the skin (i.e., needles, scalpels, broken glass,


Effective 3/6/24                             Page 2 of 7                                     Policy 20.6.7
             broken capillary tubes, exposed ends of dental wires, etc.).
       Q.    Source Individual: Any living or dead individual whose blood or OPIM may be a source
             of occupational exposure to blood borne pathogens.
       R.    Titer Test: A blood test conducted to determine if HBV antigens and antibodies are
             present in the blood and the level of immunity achieved.
       S.    Treating Physician Authorization Release of Information (CD1947): Template letter
             providing medical professionals directions for obtaining AIC health information when
             treating staff for a potential BBP exposure. See ORS 179.505 and 192.558.
       T.    Universal Precautions: An approach to infection control which treats all human blood
             and certain human body fluids as if they are infectious for HBV, HCV, HIV, or other blood
             borne pathogens.
       U.    Work Practice: The established and accepted methods for performing tasks, called
             standard operating procedures, would include the accepted practices of licensed or
             certified professionals.


III.   POLICY
        A.   General
             Department of Corrections staff may be exposed to blood and other potentially
             infectious materials in the performance of their duties. It is the policy of the DOC to
             comply fully with Occupational Health and Safety Regulations to eliminate or reduce
             the potential for exposure through the use of engineering controls and work practices,
             to establish written exposure control plans, to provide appropriate PPE, to provide
             training, to provide recommended immunizations, and to conduct an ongoing review
             of its equipment, procedures, and exposure incidents.


             1.    DOC will provide confidential investigations, treatment, and follow-up for all
                   exposure incidents following guidelines established by the Centers for Disease
                   Control.
             2.    DOC will establish and maintain records and reports required under the Blood
                   Borne Pathogens Standard.
             3.    This policy applies to all DOC locations, institutions, and functional units.


        B.   Exposure Control Plan
             1.    Each functional unit has an exposure control plan to minimize or mitigate exposure
                   of employees, volunteers, or contract service providers to blood borne pathogens.
             2.    Each site-specific plan will, at a minimum, include the following elements:

                   a. A copy of DOC Policy 20.6.7 and all attachments;

                   b. A copy of Oregon OSHA Subdivision Z (OR-OSHA);



Effective 3/6/24                             Page 3 of 7                                     Policy 20.6.7
                   c. A list of job titles where exposure can be anticipated;

                   d. A description of training;

                   e. A description of preventive measures;

                        A.     Universal precautions;

                        B.     Hepatitis vaccination;

                   f. A description of local methods of hazard control;

                        A.    Engineering and work practice controls;

                        B.    Personal protective equipment;

                        C.    Housekeeping;

                        D.    Labeling and communication;

                        E.    Post-exposure control measures;

                   g. A description of actions to take in the event of an exposure incident;

                   h. A description of recording and reporting requirements; and
                   i.   A set of appendices with information specific to the functional unit or site.
             3.    Each functional unit or site-specific exposure control plan shall be reviewed at least
                   annually by the facility safety liaison or designee and a health service staff member,
                   or more often as necessary to eliminate or reduce risks. A record of the review
                   process will be maintained.
             4.    Training in all aspects of the functional unit or site-specific exposure control plan
                   will occur at the time of initial assignment, or when changes in equipment or work
                   practices are adopted.
                   a.    Refresher training is required annually or more often as necessary to eliminate
                         or reduce risk.
                   b.    Training will be provided by qualified persons.
                   c.    Training will be provided at no cost to the employee.
                   d.    Training will encompass the training elements required under OR-OSHA.
                   e.    Each employee will have an opportunity to have questions answered.
                   f.    Training records will be maintained.
                   g.    Appropriate training on blood borne pathogens shall be presented to
                         students, volunteers, and contract service providers prior to assignment.
             5.    Hepatitis B Vaccinations Program (HBV)




Effective 3/6/24                              Page 4 of 7                                   Policy 20.6.7
                   a.   Vaccinations for HBV and titer testing will be offered to all employees at no cost
                        to the employee. Employees can go to any medical provider and turn in their
                        receipt to their location’s business office for reimbursement. Hepatitis B
                        vaccinations are tracked in Workday.
                   b.   Offer/Declination of Hepatitis B Vaccination (CD1398) should be offered and
                        filled out by all staff within the first 30 days of employment, even if
                        vaccination is declined. The form is in the employee new hire packet and will
                        be kept in a permanent record in Workday for all employees. Employees who
                        decline vaccination may later request the series by contacting their Human
                        Resources representative.


        C.   Exposure Incidents Involving AICs
             1.    An exposure incident is a potential medical emergency and prompt referral to a
                   qualified health care provider may be necessary.
                   a.   First aid will be provided at the institution.
                   b.   Accurate and thorough records of the incident will be initiated and maintained.
                   c.   The employee will be referred to a medical provider and provided a copy of
                        Treating Physician Authorization Release of Information (CD1947).
                   d.   The medical provider will supply a written opinion.
                   e.   Exposure incident records will be maintained for at least 30 years beyond the
                        last day of employment.
             2.    Supervisor: A post-exposure evaluation will be conducted by a manager of the
                   affected person following the latest recommendation(s) from the Centers for
                   Disease Control and include completion of Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s
                   Duties & Description (CD1401) and Post-Exposure Follow-Up Checklist (CD1402).
                   Supervisors will use Attachment B Post Exposure – Roles/Responsibilities/Duties
                   and Attachment C Outline of BBP Roles and Responsibilities as guidance for
                   processing exposure incidents.
                   Employee: Attachment A Employee Information Following Exposure, Attachment
                   B Post Exposure – Roles/Responsibilities/Duties and Attachment C Outline of BBP
                   Roles and Responsibilities will be provided to the affected person.
              3.   Volunteers and contractors who have been exposed, or believe they have been
                   exposed, to a BBP are encouraged to seek private medical attention within the
                   time frames outlined in the exposure control plan and are expected to comply with
                   the reporting requirements of the plan. All costs associated with medical care are
                   the sole responsibility of the volunteer or contractor unless otherwise approved.


        D.   Exposure Incidents Involving Other Persons (Such as Adults on Supervision, Staff,
             Visitors)
             1.    An exposure incident is a potential medical emergency and prompt referral to a



Effective 3/6/24                            Page 5 of 7                                      Policy 20.6.7
                   qualified health care provider may be necessary.
                   a.   First aid will be provided.
                   b.   Accurate and thorough records of the incident will be initiated and maintained.
                   c.   The employee will be referred to a medical provider.
                   d.   The medical provider will supply a written opinion.
                   e.   Exposure incident records will be maintained for at least 30 years beyond the
                        last day of employment.
             2.    Supervisor: A post-exposure evaluation will be conducted by a manager of the
                   affected person following the latest recommendation(s) from the Centers for
                   Disease Control and include completion of Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s
                   Duties & Description (CD1401) and Post-Exposure Follow-Up Checklist (CD1402).
                   Supervisors will use Attachment B Post Exposure – Roles/Responsibilities/Duties
                   and Attachment C Outline of BBP Roles and Responsibilities as guidance for
                   processing exposure incidents.
                   Employee: Attachment A Employee Information Following Exposure, Attachment
                   B Post Exposure – Roles/Responsibilities/Duties and Attachment C Outline of BBP
                   Roles and Responsibilities will be provided to the affected person.
                   As an employee of the Department of Corrections, per ORS 433.085, if you come
                   into contact with blood or OPIM of another person(s) you may petition the court
                   to have that person tested for HIV and Hepatitis B and C. You can ask the judge to
                   order the testing without the source individual even being notified or present.
                   Refer to Attachment D Instructions for Filling Out Affidavit, Petition, and Order For
                   Required Medical Testing.
              3.   Volunteers and contractors who have been exposed, or believe they have been
                   exposed, to a BBP are encouraged to seek private medical attention within the
                   time frames outlined in the exposure control plan and are expected to comply with
                   the reporting requirements of the plan. All costs associated with medical care are
                   the sole responsibility of the volunteer or contractor unless otherwise approved.


        E.   Blood Borne Pathogens Safety Oversight Committee
             A Blood Borne Pathogens Safety Oversight Committee, composed of representatives
             from Employee Services, Health Services, and Operations functional units, shall:
             1.    Meet regularly to provide ongoing oversight of the Blood Borne Pathogens Safety
                   Program; to review policies and procedures and recommend necessary changes;
                   to review the HBV vaccination program; and to review and analyze incidents of
                   blood borne pathogen exposure.
             2.    Monitor the agency’s BBP safety training programs and make recommendations
                   regarding their content and compliance with OR-OSHA requirements.
             3.    Identify, evaluate, and recommend engineering controls and work practice
                   controls including safer medical devices. This evaluation shall be done annually, at



Effective 3/6/24                            Page 6 of 7                                    Policy 20.6.7
                   a minimum, and it will comply with OR-OSHA requirements for line staff.
             4.    Conduct the required annual review of the BBP policy and safety programs and
                   recommend changes to the policy committee.
             5.    Make recommendations to the Director and functional unit managers for
                   improvements to policies, processes, and equipment.


        F.   Reports and Records
             1.    Reports and records required by OR-OSHA and DOC will be initiated, completed,
                   and maintained.
             2.    Records to include vaccinations; training; exposure incident reporting and follow
                   up; product and equipment evaluations and follow up; minutes of meetings of
                   committee and work groups; and copies of reports to the Director and functional
                   unit managers will be maintained.
             3.    Storage location, reports and records content, and level of confidentiality of
                   reports and records will be determined by the appropriate functional unit
                   manager, facility safety liaison or designee, medical provider, committee, or work
                   group.
             4.    Records and reports will be managed and maintained in accordance with DOC
                   retention schedules, Oregon law, and OR-OSHA requirements.


III.   IMPLEMENTATION
       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified:       signature on file
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator

Approved:        signature on file
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective 3/6/24                           Page 7 of 7                                  Policy 20.6.7
                                                                                                       Attachment A


                  EMPLOYEE INFORMATION FOLLOWING
                 EXPOSURE TO BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS
Occupational Exposure to Blood and Body Fluids

Initial Action

Wash wounds with soap and water and flush exposed mucous membranes as soon as possible after an exposure.
You may also need to shower and change clothing.

You may go to the emergency roomer (ER) for evaluation. The ER physician will speak to you about the exposure
incident and review the Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s Duties and Description of Exposure Incident (CD1401)
to determine your treatment. The ER physician may offer or recommend that you take medication. Since it is
important to begin medication as soon as possible (within hours rather than days) in order to prevent HIV
infection, you may want to begin taking the prescribed drug treatment and later discontinue it after discussion
with loved ones or your physician, or when negative source tests are known. Further follow up may be through
your personal physician.

Risk of HIV Infection After Exposure

The risk is decreased if the needle first passed through clothing or a glove, was not a hollow needle, or when the
source has HIV with an undetectable viral count. The risk of infection after mucous membrane or non-intact skin
exposure is much lower than after a needle stick exposure. The vast majority of people do not have HIV infection.

If you have a significant exposure, your treating physician will offer you the opportunity to begin drug treatment.
A workers’ compensation claim may be filed.

What is the Antibody Test (AT)?

The antibody test is a blood test used to detect antibodies to HIV. The current recommendation is to test the
exposed worker up to 6 months after a possible exposure to HIV. Testing is also recommended if the exposed
individual develops symptoms suggesting acute HIV infection (fever, rash, swollen lymph nodes) or develops
Hepatitis C infection.

Risk of Hepatitis B After Exposure

Most DOC workers have been immunized or have been offered immunization against Hepatitis B by receiving a
series of three shots. Having Hepatitis B antibodies protects you from becoming infected.

Risk of Hepatitis C After Exposure

The severity of the Hepatitis C illness varies but is usually very mild. There is no vaccine for Hepatitis C at present.

If the source results for Hepatitis C antibody testing are negative, no further testing needs to be done. If the
source results for Hepatitis C antibody testing are positive, your Hepatitis C antibody test will be repeated at 6
months. There is no preventive treatment for Hepatitis C available. If you become infected with Hepatitis C, you
will need to be seen on a regular basis by your physician so that your liver function tests may be monitored.


20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment A – Page 1                                                       Revised 2/2024
                                                                                                   Attachment A


Source Results

The results from testing the source will be given to your treating physician to discuss with you. Remember that
these are confidential test results.

Consideration After Exposure

If you have been exposed to a blood borne pathogen, it is important to protect your sexual partner. Until you
test negative at your final antibody test, you should practice abstinence or use latex condoms during sexual
intercourse. To protect others from possible exposure, refrain from donating blood, plasma, body organs, other
tissues, or sperm. Do not share toothbrushes, razors, needles, or other implements that could be contaminated
with blood. Breast-feeding is discouraged until you test negative at your final antibody test because HIV has
been isolated from human breast milk.

If you elect not to have HIV testing or Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C screening done on yourself, the final outcome of
any workers’ compensation claim filed for this exposure may be affected, as they recommend baseline testing
within 2 weeks of exposure.

* Data from Oregon Health Division based on several years of annual sampling and testing for HIV and
Hepatitis C.




20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment A – Page 2                                                   Revised 2/2024
                                                                                                  Attachment B

                      POST EXPOSURE - ROLES/RESPONSIBILITIES/DUTIES

NOTE: This is only a general listing of roles, duties and responsibilities and general order of process. The
severity and nature of the incident may affect this process. In most situations, this outline should be followed.
Attachment C Outline of BBP Exposure Roles and Responsibilities summarizes duties in the exposure incident.

    A.      Employees sustaining a workplace exposure incident shall:

            1.      Notify their supervisor immediately. If the supervisor is not available, notify a manager
                    through the chain of command. If in the rare case a manager is not available through the
                    direct chain of command, the employee shall contact another manager (in institutions, this
                    is usually the Officer-in-Charge), who will endeavor to notify the appropriate chain of
                    command manager.

            2.      Be given the opportunity to shower and change clothing, dependent on the exposure
                    incident.

            3.      Provide information to the supervisor to facilitate completion of the Supervisor's Report of
                    Employee's Duties and Description of Exposure Incident (CD1401). This report is used by the
                    treating physician to help assess the employee patient exposure incident.

            4.      Provide the supervisor or manager the name of the source individual, if known.

            5.      Be given the time to receive consultation and treatment from an outside licensed health
                    care professional within 2 hours for any workplace exposure incident. It is the employee’s
                    choice to seek medical consultation or treatment.

            6.      For exposure incidents involving AICs: If the employee seeks consultation or treatment from
                    an outside licensed health care professional, the Treating Physician Authorization Release
                    of Information form (CD1947) will be provided to the employee to take with them to the
                    visit.

                    For Exposure Incidents Involving Other Persons (Such as Adults on Supervision, Staff,
                    Visitors): The employee will follow the process outlined on the Post-Exposure Follow-Up
                    Checklist (CD1402). As an employee of the Department of Corrections, per ORS 433.085, if
                    you come into contact with blood or OPIM of another person(s) you may petition the court
                    to have that person tested for HIV and Hepatitis B and C. You can ask the judge to order the
                    testing without the source individual even being notified or present. Refer to Attachment D
                    Instructions for Filling Out Affidavit, Petition, and Order for Required Medical Testing.

            7.      Present a copy of the Supervisor's Report of Employee's Duties and Description of Exposure
                    Incident (CD1401) to the treating physician.

            8.      Complete or help complete any other reports concerning the incident that may be required.

            9.      Complete a Workday Safety Report.

            10.     Complete the worker section of a Report of Job Injury or Illness (SAIF 801 form), if the
                    employee intends to file a claim for an on-the-job injury or illness. Give the signed form to

20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment B – Page 1                                                Revised 2/2024
                                                                                                 Attachment B

                    the department’s Workers’ Compensation specialist for completion.

            11.     As soon as possible, provide information to Health Services to prepare for a request by the
                    staff members treating physician for AIC health information.

            12.     Within the limitations of ORS 433.085, seek to have the source individual tested for HIV and
                    Hepatitis B or C by petitioning the circuit court for an order compelling the testing. Notify
                    supervisor or manager of intent to compel source individual to submit to testing.


    B.      Supervisor or Manager shall:

            1.      Arrange for the exposed employee to be released from their post, as soon as possible.

            2.      Follow the post-exposure process. If a manager in the chain of command cannot be
                    immediately located or notified, the manager who takes the report is responsible and shall
                    follow the post-exposure process.

            3.      Give the exposed employee the opportunity to shower and change clothing, dependent on
                    the exposure incident.

            4.      Review the workplace exposure incident with the employee and complete the required
                    documentation on a Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s Duties and Description of Exposure
                    Incident (CD1401). The supervisor or manager shall endeavor to provide a copy to the
                    employee before the employee is seen by a licensed health care professional.

            5.      Provide the exposed employee(s) time to access a licensed health care professional within
                    a two-hour window if the exposed employee chooses to seek medical consultation or
                    treatment.

                    For exposure incidents involving AICs, provide the employee with a copy of DOC policy
                    20.6.7 Attachment A - Employee Information Following Exposure to Blood Borne Pathogens,
                    Attachment B - Post Exposure Roles/Responsibilities/Duties and Attachment C - Outline of
                    BBP Roles and Responsibilities; and the Treating Physician Authorization Release of
                    Information form (CD1947), and a copy of the Supervisor's Report of Employee's Duties and
                    Description of Exposure Incident form (CD1401).The treating medical provider can contact
                    the location’s Health Service Staff Manager or designee who will help provide the needed
                    source health information.

                    For exposure incidents involving Other Persons (Such as Adults on Supervision, Staff,
                    Visitors), provide the employee with a copy of DOC policy 20.6.7 Attachment A - Employee
                    Information Following Exposure to Blood Borne Pathogens and a copy of the Supervisor's
                    Report of Employee's Duties and Description of Exposure Incident form (CD1401).
                    Supervisors will assist the exposed employee as needed and as appropriate in petitioning
                    the court to compel testing of source individuals.

                    Note: If the employee refuses to seek medical attention or consultation, the supervisor or
                    manager shall document that fact on the Post-Exposure Follow-Up Checklist (CD1402). If the
                    exposed employee(s) changes their decision on seeking treatment or consultation and the
                    exposed employee chooses to seek medical attention or consultation, the employee(s) shall


20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment B – Page 2                                               Revised 2/2024
                                                                                                 Attachment B

                    be released as soon as possible to do so.

            6.      Upon receipt of the AIC source individual’s name, provide the source AIC’s name to Health
                    Services.

            7.      Arrange for the employee's contaminated clothing to be laundered or sent to a laundry
                    labeled as “contaminated laundry” and returned before the employee(s) takes possession
                    of the clothing.

            8.      Complete the employer section of Report of Job Injury or Illness (Form 801), if the employee
                    intends to file a claim for an on-the-job injury or illness, and forward to the department’s
                    insurer.

            9.      Offer CISM counseling as soon as possible to those involved in an exposure incident.

            10.     Complete the supervisor’s accident investigation report in Workday

            11.     Respect the exposed staff member by restricting any discussion about the exposure incident
                    to those staff that have a need to know.

    C.      Health Services shall: (Note: Health Services involvement in this process is limited to issues
            concerning the AIC source individual(s)).

            1.      Per DOC policy 20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens, use the Treating Physician Authorization
                    Release of Information form (CD1947) to release health information to the health care
                    provider concerning the AIC source individual identified by the exposed employee(s) as soon
                    as possible.

            2.      Refer to Medical Services for further medical testing of the source AIC, as soon as possible,
                    if needed. Medical Services will obtain written consent for testing from source AIC before
                    blood can be drawn.

            3.      Upon receipt of such information, release results of further testing of the source AIC to the
                    health care provider identified by the exposed employee as soon as possible.

    D.      Policy Statements

            1.      At no time shall anyone involved in an exposure incident be discriminated or retaliated
                    against.

            2.      Employees shall adhere to DOC Policy 20.1.3 Code of Conduct, DOC Policy 20.1.7
                    Promotion and Maintenance of a Respectful Workplace, and respect the exposed staff
                    member by restricting any discussion about the exposure incident to those staff that have
                    a need to know and to only that information necessary to complete required reports.

                    For exposure incidents involving AICs, the Department of Corrections will provide support
                    for affected employees throughout this process as described in DOC policy 20.6.7
                    Bloodborne Pathogens and within DOC policy 20.6.7 B Post Exposure –
                    Roles/Responsibilities/Duties. form.



20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment B – Page 3                                               Revised 2/2024
                                                                                                 Attachment C
                             Outline of BBP Roles and Responsibilities

                 All: Restrict discussion of BBP incident respecting privacy of those involved

           Employee                               Supervisor                      Health Services
 Wash or shower or change           ASAP allow employee to shower or      Render emergency care, as
 clothing                           change (provide clothing and          needed
                                    arrange for laundering of
                                    employee’s clothing, if needed)
 Notify supervisor of exposure      Encourage employee to seek            For Exposure Incident Involving
 incident ()                        medical evaluation or treatment       AICs: Contact AIC source.

 Assist supervisor by providing     Document exposure and gather          Provide AIC health information to
 information, including source if   evidence for Supervisor’s Report      employee’s physician upon
 known, for CD1401 and              CD1401                                request.
 CD1402
 Seek (or refuse) emergency         For Exposure Incident Involving
 medical evaluation or              AICs: Provide staff a copy of DOC
 treatment (provide CD1401)         policy 20.6.7 Attachment A-C and
                                    CD1401CD1401 prior to staff
                                    seeking medical treatment
 Provide name and address of        For Exposure Incident Involving
 treating physician to Health       Other Persons: Provide staff a copy
 Services                           of DOC policy 20.6.7 Attachment A-
                                    D and CD1401 prior to staff seeking
                                    medical treatment
 For Exposure Incident Involving    Notify Health Services of incident
 AICs: If seeking medical           and source, if known
 treatment, take CD1947 to
 appointment
 For Exposure Incident Involving    Complete Supervisor’s Report
 Other Persons: Follow process      CD1401 and CD1402
 in Attachment D to petition for
 medical information
 Assist or complete Workday         Offer *CISM counseling services to
 Safety Report                      affected staff
 Assist or complete Form 801        Complete supervisor’s section of
                                    Workday Safety Report
 Return EMSR* to supervisor,        Assist or complete SAIF 801, if
 HR Manager, or Worker’s            needed
 Compensation Specialist
 Assist/Complete SAIF 801
*EMSR = Employee Medical Status Report
*CISM = Crisis Incident Stress Management




20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment C                                                     Revised 2/2024
                                                                                           Attachment D


                 FOR EXPOSURE INCIDENTS INVOLVING OTHER PERSONS
                  (SUCH AS ADULTS ON SUPERVISION, STAFF, VISITORS)

          INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING OUT AFFIDAVIT, PETITION, AND ORDER
                        FOR REQUIRED MEDICAL TESTING


As an employee of the Department of Corrections, per ORS 433.085 if you come into
contact with the blood or other potentially infectious materials of another person(s)
you may petition the court to have that person tested for HIV and Hepatitis B and C.
You can ask the judge to order the testing without the source individual even being
notified or present.


STEP 1          PETITION - Fill in the blanks, sign your name and that’s it.

STEP 2          AFFIDAVIT - Fill in the blanks. Describe source individual’s location – such as, is the
                individual in custody, at home, in the hospital? Be specific.

                Describe how you came into contact with the source individual’s bodily fluids. The
                exposure needs to be a substantial contact, so be explicit. Discuss the exposure incident
                with a licensed medical professional and if they agree you need testing include that
                information in the affidavit (even if you have to call the medically trained individual on
                the phone and have them agree you need testing).

                Swear to and sign the affidavit in front of a notary public. Once the notary public has
                signed and placed their seal on the affidavit, attach the affidavit to the petition.

STEP 3          ORDER - Fill in the caption of the order but leave the rest of the page blank for the
                court to complete.

STEP 4          FILE - File the petition, affidavit, and order with the court. There should be no charge or
                filing fee imposed. If there is a charge or filing fee imposed, the department will pay or
                reimburse the employee.

STEP 5          HEARING - The court is to hold an ex parte hearing, in person or by telephone, on the
                day of receipt of the petition, if possible, or within a reasonable period of time not to
                exceed three judicial days. If there are no mistakes in the petition and affidavit, the
                court will sign the order to require the source individual to be tested for HIV and
                Hepatitis B and C. If the affected individual is a Department of Corrections employee,
                cost of testing is paid by the Department of Corrections.

STEP 6          SERVICE - If the source individual is in custody, deliver the signed order to the
                institution or agency that has custody and direct the institution or agency that has
                custody to deliver a copy of the order to the source individual and arrange for the
                required testing on your behalf. If the source individual is out of custody, arrange with
                the local jurisdiction for service of the signed order to the source individual or seek
                alternative methods of service.




20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens Attachment D                                                  Revised 2/2024
                              Offer/Declination of Hepatitis B Vaccination


To:               All Department of Corrections (DOC) Employees

Subject: Hepatitis B Vaccination

The Department of Corrections offers Hepatitis B vaccination to every employee who may be at risk of an
occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious material in accordance with OR-OSHA rules
regarding blood borne pathogens. The following broad classification of Corrections employees have been
determined to have a risk of occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious material:

         Institution Security              Health Services       Physical Plant
         Food Service Staff                Education Staff       Recreation Staff
         Safety Manager                    Staff who do Searches

If specific tasks in your job provide a risk of occupational exposure to blood borne pathogens and you are
not included in the above classifications, please discuss your concerns with your supervisor immediately
and arrange to be included in the next vaccination clinic.

The vaccination consists of a series of three inoculations provided by DOC at no cost to DOC employees.
The vaccine is a synthetic compound in a yeast derivative. It is not a live virus vaccine. The first vaccination
is given; the second follows 30 days later; the series is ended normally with the third vaccination six
months from the date of the first. In the future if a booster is recommended by the U.S. Public Health
Service it also shall be provided at no cost to the employee.

Oregon OSHA and DOC policy require that DOC retains a copy of a form indicating that you accept or
decline the offer to be vaccinated.

COMPLETE AND CIRCLE YOUR CHOICE BELOW:

 Print Name:                                                           Employee ID No:

 Employee Signature:                                                   Date:

 Functional Unit:

 Please Circle Either 1, (A, B, or C) to Decline or 2, to Accept
 1. I DECLINE TO BE VACCINATED BECAUSE:
     A. I have previously completed or started and intend to complete the HEP B Vaccination elsewhere.
     B. I understand due to my occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious material, I may be
         at risk of acquiring Hepatitis B virus infection. I have been given the opportunity to receive this vaccination
         at no cost to myself; however, I decline to be vaccinated at this time. I understand that by declining this
         vaccine, I continue to be at risk of acquiring Hepatitis B. If in the future I want to be vaccinated, I can
         receive the vaccination series at no cost to me by notifying my supervisor and requesting to be scheduled
         for vaccination.
     C. I do not have a risk of occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials and decline
         to be vaccinated.
 2. I WANT THE HEPATITIS B VACCINATION OFFERED BY MY EMPLOYER AT NO COST. I ALSO AGREE TO COMPLETE
     THE VACCINATION SERIES IN THE APPROPRIATE TIME FRAME.

Supervisors: Upload this form to employee’s Workday file.

20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens                                                                   CD 1398 (09/23)
                                 Supervisor’s Report of Employee’s Duties and
                                       Description of Exposure Incident

Employee name
Employee job title
Assigned post
Location of incident
Date of incident
Time of incident
Source individual, if known
Description of employee's duties at time of incident.




Description or nature of exposure incident, include route of exposure, sharps involved, etc.




Was this a direct exposure incident (blood or OPIM made direct contact with eye, mouth, other mucous
membrane, non-intact skin, or penetrated skin)? Please describe fully.




For Exposure Incidents Involving AICs only: The employee was provided the prepared Treating
Physician Authorization Release of Information letter (CD1947) with institution specific information.
Yes ☐
Date
Name of supervisor completing report
Signature


   20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens                                                          CD 1401 (09/23)
                                  Post-Exposure Follow-Up Checklist


Supervisors: The following steps shall be taken and the information transmitted as noted for any
incident of employee exposure to blood borne pathogens. Copy retained in employee’s working
personnel file.

Employee Name:                                                       Date of Incident:


                               Activity                                          Completion Date

 For Exposure Incidents Involving AICs
                                                                     Workday incident report #:
 A.        Supervisor or employee reports incident in Workday
                                                                     Completion date:
 B.        Unusual Incident Report (UIR) (CD1676e) completed.
                                                                     Date provided to employee:
 C.        Employee provided copies of documentation and
           information regarding incident and a copy of OR-
           OSHA (OAR 437, Division 2, Subdivision Z, Toxic and
           Hazardous Substance, 1910.1030 Blood Borne
           Pathogens)
                                                                     Yes _____                 No_____
 D.        Did employee seek medical attention or treatment?
                                                                     (Complete below)

           1. If yes, employee completes Report of Job Injury or     Submitted: Yes _____
              Illness (Form 801) and submits to Worker’s
              Compensation Specialist.

                                                                     Name of Source Individual(s) and SID#:


           2. Source Individual(s): If known; If AIC, include SID#



                                                                     Yes_____ No_____
           3. Employee provided the prepared Treating
              Physician Authorization Release of Information
              (CD1947) with institution specific information
              prior to leaving the institution.
                                                                     Cleared to return to work? Y/N _____
           4. Post-Exposure Employee Medical Status Report
              (EMSR/Doctor’s Note)


                                                       1
20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens                                                          CD 1402 (2/2024)
 For Exposure Incidents Involving Other Persons (Such as Adults on Supervision, Staff, Visitors)
  E. Name of staff to obtain source individual(s) consent of      Name:
 blood tests.
                                                                  Date:
 F. Consent from source individual(s) for blood testing obtained.
 G. Result of source individual(s) (inmate) blood testing sent    Name:
 to treating physician by Health Services.
                                                                  Date:




                                                   2
20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens                                                     CD 1402 (2/2024)
                           Treating Physician Authorization Release of Information


To: Medical professionals treating Oregon Department of Corrections (DOC) employees

From: DOC, ____________________________________________
                              (Name of location)
Subject: Authorization to obtain vital health information


Dear Treating Physician:

You are being provided this notification because you are treating a DOC employee. Senate Bill 367 (which took
effect January 1, 2018 and is now law) permits a health care provider to disclose protected health information of
an adult in custody (AIC) to the physician of a DOC employee who is exposed to the AIC’s bodily fluids, if
exposure is substantial and the AIC has tested positive for HIV, Hepatitis B or C, or other communicable diseases.
The purpose of this legal allowance is to help you in your care for DOC staff who may have come into contact
with bodily fluids while in the workplace.

Be advised that the staff member in your care needs you to call the facility at the following numbers in order to
receive vital health information on AIC _________________________________________________ (name),
State Identification Number (SID) _________________. This may help you better treat and or assist the
individual in your care.

Be advised when calling the numbers below, do so in order and when you speak with of one of our medical
professionals, please state the following: “I am _______________. I am at ______________ and I am treating a
staff member from your facility. I am requesting information on adult in custody [name and SID number], so I
may best treat the staff member.” Depending on the day or the time of day, it may be necessary to call more
than one of the numbers below. We hope this will not discourage you in your effort to gain vital information
from our team.

Medical Records ____________________

Medical Services Manager _____________________

Nurse Manager _____________________

Lead Nurse _____________________

   SB 367 allows you to gain important information on the AIC involved in the exposure incident and the reason
   for the staff member’s visit to you today. Through this law, you are authorized to speak to one of our medical
   professionals and gain pertinent information about the source individual to help in your treatment of the
   DOC staff member.

Thank you.

Oregon Department of Corrections

20.6.7 Bloodborne Pathogens                                                              CD 1947 (11/23)
