                                     DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                             Institutions

 Title:              Food Cost (Food Service)                                  DOC Policy: 40.2.12
 Effective:          3/1/24                                                    Supersedes: 10/6/22
 Applicability:   Institutions and Office of Chief Financial Officer
 Directives Cross-Reference:
                  Code of Conduct – Policy 20.1.3
                  AIC Revenue Generating Activities and Programs - Policy 30.1.6
 Attachments: None

I. PURPOSE
    The purpose of this policy is to establish a uniform process for calculating adult in custody (AIC)
    daily food cost. All institutions within the Department of Corrections (DOC) shall establish and
    maintain accurate monthly records of all financial transactions and inventories that are used to
    calculate the AIC daily food cost.

II. DEFINITIONS

   A. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections
      who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

   B. AFAMIS: Automated Financial Accounting Manufacturing Inventory System used to order,
      track, receive, and make payment for inventory and non-inventory purchases.

   C. Cottage Industry Program: An Institution Work Program (IWP) that uses AIC labor to produce
      goods or services to sell to customers. Some programs may have an education or training
      component. Net profits belong to the cottage industry program. Cottage industry programs
      may purchase raw materials, receive donated materials from an outside entity, use surplus
      material, or use scrap or salvage material.

   D. Food Cost Form: A department form used to show the average amount spent on food for the
      AIC population.

   E. Incentive Meals: Meals served to AICs purchased from Other Funds (OF) to incentivize
      appropriate conduct.

   F. DOC Invoice Request Form: A department form used when DOC bills an outside entity, other
      agency, or internal unit that doesn’t use AFAMIS.

   G. DOC Journal Entry Request Form: A department form used to move revenue or expense from
Effective: 10/6/22                          Page 1 of 4                                 Policy 40.2.12
       one cost center to another.

   H. Order Transfers (OT) and Sales Transfers (ST): Complementing orders between two internal
      units for the transfer of stock items and their cost. Order transfers and sales transfers are the
      equivalent of an internal purchase order and an internal sales order. When a sales transfer is
      created, an identical order transfer is created.

III. POLICY

    A. Calculating AIC Daily Food Costs:


        1. The Food Service Manager or designee shall submit an institution food cost report to the
           Food Service Administrator no later than the third business day after the month- end
           closing of AFAMIS.
        2. The monthly report shall include the following:
            a.       Food cost report.
            b.       Cover sheet of inventory totals.
            c.       Cover sheet of AFAMIS cost center totals.
            d.       Total of all journal entries that have not been posted to AFAMIS; and
            e.       AIC meal participation report.


        3. Food Service expenditures shall be coded to the following object subsidiary codes:
            a.       9257.600 Janitor/Sanitation Supply
            b.       9261.100 Food
            c.       9261.200 Kitchen/Dining Supplies
            d.       9269.301 AIC Clothing
            e.       9269.309 Personal Supplies


        4. All financial activity during the month will be accounted for on a monthly food cost
           report. Staff may not subtract out expenses not reimbursed from the report.
        5. Credits and debits will be reported the same month they are posted on the AFAMIS
           month-end close out.
        6. If an institution is over their budget amount, a written justification must be submitted
           with a food cost report.
        7. Each institution will conduct a monthly inventory of all food and non-food items on hand
Effective: 10/6/22                              Page 2 of 4                                  Policy 40.2.12
             on the last day of each month.

    B. Accounting:

        The Food Service Manager shall ensure the following is completed at the end of each
        month:
        1. All outstanding OT/ST transactions and invoices have been received in AFAMIS before
           the close of business on the last workday of each month.
        2. After all known OT/ST and invoices have been received within AFAMIS, each institution
           must run the “Orders Transferred, Not Received Report” in AFAMIS. Any remaining
           outstanding orders that have been physically received must be received in AFAMIS.
        3. All invoice and journal entry request forms, requests for commissary, bread programs,
           and outside contractual food agreements will be invoiced by the fifth day of the month
           after the service is provided.

    C. Cottage Programs, Incentive Meals, Banquets, Other Food or Supplies, and Non-AIC Meal-
       Related Items:


        1. Institutions that purchase food and supplies for cottage programs (for example, Meals on
           Wheels, senior meals, external food programs, etc.) shall purchase the food and supplies
           using their Institution Work Program OF cost center, unless fiscally or logistically
           impossible.
            a.       When invoicing an external customer for goods, an Invoice Request form (CD1477)
                     shall be completed and submitted to Business Services who shall review and submit
                     the completed form to Accounting, who will then generate an invoice.
            b.       An invoice may not be required to bill certain external customers when payments
                     are accepted in accordance with the department’s policy on AIC Revenue
                     Generating Activities (DOC policy 30.1.6) (for example, customers who are paying
                     upon receipt, orders that are less than $100, or AIC clubs that send payment with an
                     Administrative Check Request/Transfer (CD28a)).
            c.       All revenue shall go into the appropriate Institution Work Program OF cost center.


        2. Cost centers that do not purchase food and supplies directly from vendors may acquire
           food and supplies from other cost centers by purchasing the food and supplies from the
           cost center that paid for the items. The institution Food Service Manager will be
           responsible to ensure a journal entry is completed. This journal entry will reduce
           expenses in the cost center which paid for the food and supplies and record an expense
           in the cost center that is receiving the food and supplies. The journal entry will be done
           at cost. This process applies when transferring or selling food and supplies to any cost
           center, even if the cost center receiving the food and supplies is not a part of Food
           Service, such as Security, Administration, Correctional Services, etc.
Effective: 10/6/22                             Page 3 of 4                                Policy 40.2.12
        3. When selling food and supplies to external customers, the full production expense
           including a 20 percent markup will be recorded as revenue in an OF cost center.
           Exceptions to adding the 20 percent markup may be approved by the Food Service
           Administrator. If the OF cost center making the sale has not already paid for the food and
           supplies sold, the OF cost center must acquire the food and supplies by following the
           process in (III)(C)(2).
        4. In accordance with the department’s policy on Code of Conduct (DOC policy 20.1.3), DOC
           employees and non-employee service providers shall not receive special pricing or
           discounts due to their official position.
        5. Food and supplies ordered from OF cost centers shall not be used for institution meals
           and must be kept separate from the food and supplies ordered using General Fund
           money.


IV. IMPLEMENTATION
    This policy shall be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified:           signature on file
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved:        signature on file
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective: 10/6/22                         Page 4 of 4                               Policy 40.2.12
