                               DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                      Institutions

 Title:           Forms Control                                   DOC Policy: 10.1.3
 Effective:       02/7/20                                         Supersedes: 07/01/99
 Applicability:   All employees, volunteers, and contract service providers
 Directives Cross-Reference: 10.4.1 Directives Development
 Attachments:
                  Accessibility Check
                  CD 1574 Forms Management Proposal



I.   PURPOSE
     The purpose of this policy is to establish the method of adoption, review, revision, and
     storage of forms to ensure the control and standardized use of forms throughout the
     Department of Corrections (DOC).
II. DEFINITIONS

     A. Department of Corrections Form (department form): Any document used throughout
        the department as a standard, or to provide consistency of functions as directed
        through DOC rules, policies, or procedures.

     B. Division Forms Control Liaison: A person appointed by a division Assistant Director to
        serve as a liaison between the division and the DOC Forms Control Coordinator. Division
        forms control liaisons will coordinate the creation of new forms or revisions submitted
        by their division.

     C. Forms Control Coordinator: The person appointed by the Director or designee to
        administer the provisions of this policy, working with division forms control liaisons, and
        maintaining the department’s forms database.

     D. In-House Form: Any document that is specific to a functional unit, but is not a standard
        department practice or directive.

     E. Info Hub: An internal site where information and resources can be found, including
        department-wide forms.

III. POLICY

Effective: 02/07/2020                         Page 1 of 5                              Policy 10.1.3
   A. General Guidelines for Department Forms


       1. Any form that is a Department of Corrections form will be assigned a CD number by
          the Forms Control Coordinator and will be registered in the Department of
          Corrections forms database.

       2. Any form that is adopted and registered by the department will be used by all
          functional units to meet the operational functions or directives for which the form
          was designed.

       3. Department forms will be standardized and designed to assist staff in daily
          procedures or practices, maximize multiple functions and eliminate duplications.

       4. Department forms that apply to a specific functional unit will not be assigned a CD
          number and will not be registered in the department’s forms database. Any form
          that is used for a specific functional unit will be designated as an in-house form, as
          outlined in Section III B, of this policy.

       5. The assigned CD number on a department form is to be placed in the lower right-
          hand corner followed by the month and year of the form’s approval date or revision
          date.

       6. A department form will include the DOC shield logo, which will be placed at the top
          left-hand corner. All forms will include the bold main title “Name of the Form” at the
          top of the page that best describes the purpose of the form.

       7. A department form will not include the name of a functional unit in the title or
          subtitle(s).

       8. Only Rockwell (heading or subheading), Gill Sans (heading or subheading), or Calibri
          (body text) typefaces shall be used when revising or creating a department form. A
          combination of these three font styles may be used on a form. Main title font size is
          to be 12-16 pt., with the body text to be 9-12 pt. Calibri font.
       9. A department form may list a standardized distribution on the lower left-hand side
          of the form.

       10. All department forms submitted to the Forms Control Coordinator for approval that
           will be shared on the internet must be processed through an accessibility check and


Effective: 02/07/2020                       Page 2 of 5                              Policy 10.1.3
          all errors removed to meet ADA standards prior to submission. See Attachment
          Accessibility Check.

   B. In-House Forms

       1. In-house forms are forms that relate to specific functional unit procedures or are
          deemed essential by the functional unit manager.

       2. Functional units may decide to develop and maintain an in-house numbering
          system, which will be used in lieu of a CD number for in-house forms only.

       3. If an in-house form is developed, it shall not include any modifications of a
          Department of Corrections form. If the form exists as a department form, it shall
          not be redesigned as an in-house form.

   C. Forms Adoption and Revision

       1. A request for a new or revised department form may be submitted for consideration
          by any employee, contractor or volunteer to their division forms control liaison.

          a. Prior to submitting the form request, the facilitator will distribute the draft form
             request to identified areas of the division which will use or be impacted by the
             form to allow for review and comment.

          b. The facilitator will review and incorporate recommended changes and submit
             the form request to the division forms control liaison.

       2. Upon receipt of the form request, the division forms control liaison will review the
          request to confirm that it meets the format standards as defined in this policy, and if
          necessary, return it to the facilitator for correction. The division forms control
          liaison will also confirm that all identified areas and impacted staff have been
          contacted for their review and comments.

       3. The division forms control liaison will forward the form request to the division
          Assistant Director or designee, for final approval.

       4. Once the form is approved by the Assistant Director or designee, the division forms
          control liaison will send the form request to the Forms Control Coordinator for
          approval. All form requests shall be submitted in electronic format and will contain
          the final draft form and a completed Forms Management Proposal form.

       5. The Forms Control Coordinator will update the information in the department’s
          forms database and assign a new CD number if the request is for a new form.

Effective: 02/07/2020                       Page 3 of 5                             Policy 10.1.3
       6. When a form has been deemed as obsolete, the division forms control liaison will
          notify the Forms Control Coordinator so that the department’s forms database can
          be updated. The Forms Control Coordinator will notify the Info Hub Design Team to
          coordinate the removal of the form from the Info Hub.

   D. Forms Databases

       1. The Department of Corrections forms database will be maintained by the Forms
          Control Coordinator.

       2. The database will include numeric and alphabetic indexes as well as a hard copy and
          printing instructions for each department form.

       3. Any revisions to forms or requests for new forms will be submitted to and approved
          by the Forms Control Coordinator.

       4. The Forms Control Coordinator will update the database and file the electronic and
          master copy. Hard copies will be maintained by division forms control liaisons.

       5. Each division forms control liaison will maintain a division database of their in-house
          forms.


   E. Location of Forms

       1. All department forms will be available to staff on the Info Hub. It is the responsibility
          of the Forms Control Coordinator to update the Info Hub with new, revised, or
          repealed forms and communicate such with the Info Hub Team.

       2. Department forms are not to be saved to local desktops.

   F. Forms Orders

       1. All orders for a department form(s) should be done on an as needed basis and
          processed as follows:

          a. Submit a complete and signed CD 633 and a current copy of the department
             form to the OCE Print Shop at: oceprintshop@oce.oregon.gov.

          b. OCE Print Shop will only print current versions of department forms that match
             the master list on the Info Hub. If a form submitted for print does not match the
             Info Hub, OCE Print shop will provide proofs to the Forms Control Coordinator
             for approval.

Effective: 02/07/2020                       Page 4 of 5                              Policy 10.1.3
       2. Department forms may be digitally copied if only a small numbers of copies are
          needed and it will not alter the format in any way.

IV. IMPLEMENTATION

   This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.




Certified: _signature on file____________
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator



Approved: _signature on file____________
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective: 02/07/2020                       Page 5 of 5                         Policy 10.1.3
Microsoft Word 2013 for Windows
Creating Accessible PDF Documents
The goal of accessibility is for all users to have the same experience, including people with
disabilities. Creating a PDF that is accessible primarily involves ensuring that the format and
structure of the document is defined so that it is presented the way the author intended, and
that text alternatives via “tags” are provided for any non-text elements. An accessible PDF
essentially looks the same, but is more accessible to a person using a screen reader.

Principles of Accessible Design for PDFs

         •     Creating and Editing Headings
         •     Adding Alternative Text to Images and Shapes
         •     Creating Tables and Adding Alternative Text
         •     Editing Hyperlinks
         •     Creating Lists
         •     Creating Columns

Microsoft Word provides an Accessibility Checker for identifying and repairing accessibility
issues. The checker's Inspection Results classifies accessibility issues into three categories:

•  Errors: content that makes a document very difficult or impossible for people with
   disabilities to access.
  o Example: an image with no alt text.
• Warnings: content that in most—but not all—cases makes the document difficult for people
   with disabilities to access.
  o Example: a link with text that is not descriptive of its function.
• Tips: content that people with disabilities can access, but that might be better organized or
   presented.
  o Example: skipping from a first-level heading to a third-level heading.

See Using the Accessibility Checker below.

Creating and Editing Headings

    1.       Select the Home tab from the ribbon.
    2.       In your document, select the text to convert to a heading.
    3.       Click on the appropriate heading level in the Styles in-ribbon gallery; e.g., Heading 1.
    4.       Headings 1, 2, or 3 can also be assigned using Control + Alt + 1, 2, or 3, respectively.




                                                                                              Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
Notes
Word documents with a true heading structure provide at least two benefits:
  • The document retains this structure when correctly exported to PDF.
  • The document's readability is increased for all users.

Adding Alternative Text to Images and Shapes

 1. Right-click on the image (or shape) and select Format Picture (or Format Shape). A dialog
    box will appear.
 2. Select the Layout & Properties icon and choose Alt Text.
 3. Enter the appropriate alternative text only in the Description field, NOT the Title field.
    Alternative text provides a textual alternative to non-text content. It is especially helpful
    for people who are blind and rely on a screen reader to have the content read to them.
    The following link provides a helpful guide on choosing the appropriate alt text:
    Alternative Text




Creating Tables and Adding Alternative Text

 1. Select the Insert tab on the ribbon, then select Table > Insert Table.




                                                                                      Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
 2. If your table has a column header(s), select Table Tools > Layout on the ribbon, then
    choose the Repeat Header Rows option in the Data group.




Important
Do NOT create tables "by hand" with spaces or the Tab key.

   3. Add alt text to the table by selecting Table Tools > Layout on the ribbon, then choose
      the Properties option in the Table group.




       Select the Alt Text tab in the Properties window, and enter the appropriate alternative
       text only in the Description field (NOT in the Title field).




                                                                                    Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
Editing Hyperlinks

 1. Select a hyperlink, right-click, and select Edit Hyperlink or Ctrl + K.
 2. Change the text in the Text to display field to a more meaningful description. Every link
    should make sense if the link text is read by itself. Screen reader users may choose to read
    only the links. Certain phrases like "click here" and "more" must be avoided.




Creating Lists

 1. Select the Home tab on the ribbon.
 2. Choose the Numbered List or Bulleted List option from the Paragraph group.




Creating Columns

 1. Select the Page Layout tab on the ribbon.
 2. Select Columns in the Page Setup group.




 3. Choose the number of columns.




                                                                                     Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
Using the Accessibility Checker

 1. Select File > Info > Check for Issues > Check Accessibility.




The checker presents accessibility errors, warnings, and tips for making repairs. Clicking an item
in the results highlights the corresponding item in the document and displays the Additional
Information section:

   •   Why Fix: explains why the issue impacts accessibility.
   •   How to Fix: suggestions for repairing the issue.

Converting to PDF

Users can create PDF files with the Adobe Acrobat add-in, or by using Word to save the
document as a PDF file. The file must be exported correctly. Do NOT use the Print to PDF
option, as the file will not be correctly tagged.

Adobe Acrobat Add-in

    1. First, double-check that the proper Application Settings are enabled in Word. You only
        need do this once:
       a. Select Preferences from the Acrobat ribbon.




                                                                                       Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
   b. Ensure that the Enable Accessibility and Reflow with tagged Adobe PDF setting is
      checked in the Acrobat PDFMaker dialog.




2. Then, to export a PDF, select Create PDF from the Acrobat ribbon:




   OR select File> Save as Adobe PDF.




                                                                              Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
Saving to PDF with Word (without Adobe Acrobat add-in)

Accessible PDF files can be created without installing the Adobe Acrobat add-in:

    1. Select File > Save As.
    2. Under Save as Type, select PDF.




    3. Before saving, select Options and ensure that the Document structure tags for
       accessibility option is selected.




Source: WebAIM. 2016, www.webaim.org.




                                                                                   Policy 10.1.3 Attachment A
                                                 Forms Management Proposal

                 Title of Form (New/Existing):       Click or tap here to enter text.

                 Proposed Action: ☐ Create ☐Revise Form Number: # ☐ Discontinue Form Number: #


                 Reason for Action: Click or tap here to enter text.

                 ☐ Efficiency ☐ Legislative Requirement ☐ Organizational Change ☐ Rule or Policy change

                 Attached to a rule/policy: ☐ Yes ☐ No


Concept
                  If yes, list all Policies, rules, and procedures:Click or tap here to enter text.


                 Does the form reference other agency forms? If so, please list all forms: Click or tap here to enter text.


                 End Users (Check all that apply): ☐ Public ☐Staff ☐ AIC ☐Outside Agencies ☐ Business Partners

                 Submitted By: Click or tap here to enter text.            Title: Click or tap here to enter text.
                 Signature:                                                                            Date: Click or tap here to

                 Forms Owner? ☐ Yes ☐ No
                 Concept: ☐ Approved ☐ Denied

                 Existing Stock will be: ☐ Used ☐ Destroyed




Final Approval
                 Comments: Click or tap here to enter text.



                 Creation/Revision Assigned to: Click or tap here to enter text.

                 Forms Owner:Click or tap here to enter text.             Title:Click or tap here to enter text.

                 Signature:                                                                            Date: Click or tap here to

 Form changes will be posted for agency use on the next regularly scheduled update. Exceptions to this can
  be requested by the Form Owner. Please explain the reason for the request, as well as any other special
                                             considerations.

                                             Agency Forms Coordinator Final Review
Form Number: Click or tap here to enter text.                 Date Posted for Agency Use: Click or tap here to enter text.
Comments: Click or tap here to enter text.




                                                                                                       CD1574 (02/2020)
