                                            DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                               Administrative Services


 Title:              Warehouse Operations                                     DOC Policy: 30.2.2
 Effective:         08/10/23                                                  Supersedes: 07/17/20
 Applicability:      All functional units
Directives Cross-Reference:
                  Rule: 291-016 Facility Access
                  Rule: 291-061 Food Services ProgramsDOC
                  Policy 40.1.3 AIC Counts
Attachments: None


I. PURPOSE
   To establish standardized processes to ensure materials purchased by the Department of Corrections (DOC)
   are received and inspected by staff at authorized locations and that all warehouse stock commodities are
   received at, stored in, inventoried at, issued from, and secured by staff at these authorized locations.

II. DEFINITIONS

   A. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of DOC who is not on parole, probation, or post-
      prison supervision status.

   B. AIC Packages and Parcels: Items addressed to a specific AIC.

   C. Commodity: A purchased or manufactured good or product.

   D. Controlled Commodities: Items AICs are not authorized to handle unless under direct supervision of
      staff, as determined by the warehouse manager.

   E. Distribution Services: Functional unit responsible for statewide commissary and warehouse facilities
      that provide the primary logistics support for the department.

   F. Functional Unit Manager: Any person within DOC who reports to the Director, Deputy Director, an
      Assistant Director, or an administrator. In a correctional facility, the functional unit manager is the
      superintendent.

   G. Non-stock Commodities: Items purchased but not carried in the warehouse inventory (i.e., non-expendable
      property, capital improvement supplies, general maintenance items, and office supplies which are received
      at a warehouse, then sent directly to the requesting facility or functional unit)..

   H. Purchasing Agent: Staff authorized to buy goods and services for the department.

   I.     Purchase Order: A legally binding document between DOC and a vendor.

   J.     Receiver: A copy of the purchase order.


   Effective: 08/10/23                                  Page 1                                Policy 30.2.2
   K. Warehouse: A facility designed to receive, inspect, store, and issue commodities for use within DOC
      facilities.

   L. Warehouse Stock: Items inventoried and stored in a warehouse facility that are approved by the
      Distribution Services Administrator or designee.


III. POLICY

       A. General

       1. Commodities purchased by DOC shall be received and inspected by Distribution Services staff at DOC
          warehouses unless otherwise exempted as noted in section (D) of this policy.

       2. The Distribution Services Administrator is responsible for:

              a. Overseeing standardized processes for receiving and inspecting commodities;

              b. Identifying a list of additional commodities that are exceptions to the standard process;

              c. Overseeing storage, inventory, issues, and security procedures for warehouse operations and
                 warehouse stock; and

              d. Working with Distribution Services Managers to establish procedures for receipt and inspection
                 of those materials that are exceptions to the standard process.

       3. Access to warehouse facilities will be authorized and controlled in accordance with the department’s
          rule on Facility Access (OAR 291-016).

       B. Warehouse Stock Commodities

       1. Ordering: Orders will be entered in the department’s software system through the process outlined
          in the Distribution Services Product Receiving Procedure.

       2. Delivery and Receiving:

              a. Staff will verify that the bill of lading and the receiver match. If the paperwork doesn’t match, the
                 driver will be required to provide the correct paperwork before unloading will begin. If the driver
                 is unable to provide the required paperwork, staff will contact the DOC purchasing agent that
                 created the purchase order for assistance in acquiring the required paperwork. If the required
                 paperwork cannot be provided or found, the load will be rejected.

              b. Before any product is offloaded, the staff receiving the product will visually inspect the load to
                 ensure it is acceptable. The following inspection will be done:

                  I. The load will be checked that it is clean, stacked appropriately, and the pallets are in good
                     condition;

                  II. Verification will be made that the correct items are on the pallets; and



   Effective: 08/10/23                                      Page 2                                 Policy 30.2.2
              III. The temperature of the load is appropriate for the items being delivered (frozen,
                   refrigerated, or dry).

        c. Once the product is offloaded, staff will follow the Distribution Services Product Receiving
           Procedure for processing.

              I. If the offloaded product is discovered to be damaged, the receiving staff will take
                 photographs and send them to the DOC purchasing agent, the Food Services Administrator,
                 and the Central Distribution Services Warehouse Manager.

              II. The damaged product will not be received into warehouse stock and the vendor will be
                  notified.

    3. Storage:

        a. Commodities will be stored in compliance with the manufacturer’s specifications.

        b. All warehouse stock commodities will be stored and rotated in compliance with DOC guidelines,
           state statutes, state health directives, and OSHA guidelines as outlined in the department’s rule
                                                                 on Food Service Programs (OAR 291- 061).

                  c. Warehouse stock will be maintained at levels necessary to accommodate agency usage
                                                              requirements and storage space availability.

          d. Stock commodities issued from warehouses will not be returned to the warehouse for storage
             except in situations involving shipping errors, ordering errors, or special exceptions established
             to support programs such as fire crews. Other exceptions may be made with approval from the
                                          local warehouse manager as needed to support agency operations.

               e. Institutional surplus items will not be returned to the warehouse without the Distribution
              Services Warehouse Manager or designee’s prior approval. Surplus items will be identified and
                                                      disposed of in compliance with established procedures.

         f.   Warehouses will not be used to store warehouse stock consisting of gases, toxic substances, or
                                                                                         explosive supplies.

    4. Transfer:

        a. Warehouse stock will be issued upon receipt of a generated requisition initiated by the
           requesting institution. Distribution Services warehouse staff or designee will fill requisition(s)
           and prepare the commodities for shipment or pick-up as needed to meet institution
           operational needs.

        b. The person physically receiving the commodities will sign for the delivered product. Final
           approval of receipt is subject to count. Discrepancies will be reported to the sending warehouse
           within 72 hours of delivery and will be reconciled in the inventory system.

        c. Spoilage, defects, or other quality issues relating to received commodities will be reported to
           the sending warehouse within 72 hours of discovery. These items will be replaced, or their cost
           will be credited back to the receiving institution.


Effective: 08/10/23                                    Page 3                                  Policy 30.2.2
    5. Security:

        a. Each Distribution Services Warehouse Manager or designee is responsible for the security of
           their assigned warehouse.

        b. Procedures will be maintained to ensure safe and secure warehouse operations.

        c. Each Distribution Services Warehouse Manager or their designee will implement controls to
           prevent theft.

        d. All warehouses shall maintain a secure, restricted storage area for controlled commodities in
           warehouse facilities to prevent AIC access.

        e. Direct supervision of AICs will include random, documented AIC and facility searches during
           duty hours. Counts will be conducted in accordance with the department’s policy on Inmate
           Counts (DOC policy 40.1.3).

    6. Inventory: Physical inventories will follow established accounting procedures to ensure accuracy and
       accountability of warehouse stock commodities.

 C. Non-Stock Commodities Receiving

   1. Before any product is offloaded, the staff receiving the product will visually inspect the load to
      ensure the load is acceptable. The following inspection will be done:

       a. The load will be checked that it is clean, stacked appropriately, and the pallets are in good condition;
          and

       b. Verification will be made that the correct items are on the pallets.

   2. Staff will open and inspect all packages for contraband.

   3. The product in the package will be checked against the receiving paperwork and the receiver.

   4. If no paperwork is attached, staff will contact the purchasing agent and request the paperwork to be
      sent to them from the vendor.

   5. Packages will not be processed without proper paperwork.

 D. Exceptions to the Standard Receiving Process

   1. Commodities that may not be required to be received through an authorized warehouse include:

       a. On-site equipment repairs;

       b. Rental equipment;

       c. Building materials 8 feet or longer in length;

       d. After hours or emergency maintenance supplies necessary for safe and secure facility operation;

Effective: 08/10/23                                   Page 4                                 Policy 30.2.2
       e. Food to be consumed the same day (bread, dairy, etc.);

       f.   Office supply orders;

       g. Farm supplies;

       h. Bulk gasoline, oil, and other combustibles; or

       i.   Health Services pharmaceuticals and supplies

   2. Weapons, ammunition, and less than lethal munitions are not authorized for receipt at any DOC
      warehouse. These items must be sent to and received by designated DOC armories only.

 E. Receipt and Transfer of Other Items

   1. DOC warehouses may receive other types of packages or packages for other agencies (i.e., OCE) if
      authorized by the Distribution Services Administrator or designee to support a legitimate
      operational need.

   2. AIC packages and parcels will be sent directly from the vendor to the mailroom of the facility where
      the AIC is housed. AIC-purchased items are not to be sent to or received by DOC warehouses.

   3. Transfers of authorized packages between DOC warehouses and other DOC facilities will be
      documented by established processes.

 F. Access to Distribution Services Warehouse and Satellite Warehouses

   1. All DOC warehouse facilities will be secured when Distribution Services warehouse staff or designee
      are not present.

   2. After hours emergency entry to warehouse facilities may be authorized by the Director, Assistant
      Director of Administrative Services, Distribution Services Administrator, or a warehouse manager or
      designee. All other access will be during normal operation hours established at each warehouse
      location.

 G. Storage Authorization

   1. If approved by the Distribution Services Administrator or designee, warehouse space may be
      utilized to store property or commodities for other sections or agencies as space allows after
      meeting DOC operational needs.

   2. Items stored for other sections or agencies will not be maintained in the warehouse cycle counts or
      yearly physical inventory. The sections or agencies storing the material must conduct and maintain
      their own cycle counts and yearly physical inventory.

   3. Items stored in a Distribution Services warehouse must have a tag on each box with a contact name,
      phone number, and destruction date.

   4. Items stored in a Distribution Services warehouse must be destroyed by the section or agency in

Effective: 08/10/23                                 Page 5                                 Policy 30.2.2
           accordance with the destruction date listed on the box tag. Items cannot be stored in the
           warehouse indefinitely.

      5. The Distribution Services Administrator, in cooperation with the DOC Contracts and Procurements
         unit, may implement a rental fee agreement for the use of warehouse space.


IV. IMPLEMENTATION
   This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: _signature on file
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator




Approved: _signature on file
Heidi Steward, Acting Director




  Effective: 08/10/23                                   Page 6                                Policy 30.2.2
