                                     DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                               Institutions



  Title:              Prison Rape Elimination Act              DOC Policy: 40.1.13
  Effective:          3/1/2025                                 Supersedes: 1/20/2022
  Applicability:      All DOC employees, contractors, and volunteers
  Directives Cross-Reference:
           OAR 291-046 Administrative Housing
           OAR 291-105 Prohibited Conduct and Processing Disciplinary Actions
           DOC policy 70.1.4 Investigations
           DOC Health Services procedure P-F-06.1 Procedure in the Event of Sexual Abuse

  Attachments:
        PREA Reporting Flowchart
        Form – OIC PREA Checklist (CD 1621)
        Form – Staff Reporting Responsibilities Form (CD 1620)
        Form – PREA Acknowledgement Statement (CD 1623)


  I.   PURPOSE
       This document provides uniform guidelines and procedures to reduce the risk of prison sexual
       abuse and sexual harassment. The department has zero-tolerance for sexual abuse and sexual
       harassment.
       A. The department will immediately respond to, investigate, and support the prosecution
          ofsexual abuse and sexual harassment in Oregon’s prisons, both internally and externally
          in partnership with law enforcement and county prosecutors.
       B. Through continual education of staff and adults in custody (AICs), the department will
          increase awareness of safe reporting mechanisms to victims and concerned citizens,
          thereby creating facility cultures that discourage sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
       C. Through classification, assignment, review of new technologies, and improvements to
          facility architecture where feasible, the department will identify opportunities to
          separate and carefully monitor sexually abused and vulnerable AICs and sexual abusers
          and victims to reduce the incidence of sexual misconduct.
       D. The department will establish data collection systems to accurately track sexual abuse
          and sexual harassment, facilitate identification of the core causal factors, and annually
          incorporate ‘lessons learned’ into improved operations and services toward a sustainable
          zero-tolerance standard.


  II. DEFINITIONS
       A. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Oregon Department of
Effective: 3/1/2025                      Page 1 of 15                                Policy 40.1.13
           Corrections who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.
       B. Agency PREA Coordinator: An administrator responsible for the development,
           implementation, and oversight of the department’s compliance with the PREA standards
           in all the department’s facilities.
       C. Gender Nonconforming: A person whose appearance or manner does not conform to
          traditional societal gender expectations.
       D. Inspector General Hotline: Special posted telephone number(s) designated for AICs and
          staff to call in and report any alleged misconduct on the part of any DOC AICs or staff. The
          caller provides information through voicemail that is reviewed every business day by the
          Inspector General’s Office.
       E. Intersex: A person whose sexual or reproductive anatomy or chromosomal pattern does
          not seem to fit typical definitions of male or female. Intersex medical conditions are
          sometimes referred to as disorders of sex development.
       F. Isolated Area: An area in the facility or on property that cannot be viewed in person,
          through a window, via camera or are in areas that are not in plain sight.
       G. Limited View Area: An area in the facility or on property that has regular staff/AIC
          interactions or duties, but limited view due to location, limited staff and/or response time,
          lack of cameras, windows, open doors, etc.
       H. Non-Assaultive Sexual Activity: Engaging in sexual activity without violence, threat of
          violence, coercion, or use of a weapon.
       I. PREA Compliance Manager: A management staff person designated by the facility
          functional unit manager, with sufficient time and authority to coordinate the facility’s
          effortsto comply with the federal PREA standards.
       J. Rule of Three: There will be at least three people in an area; either two staff and one AIC
          or one staff and two AICs.
       K. Sexual Abuse: Sexual abuse of an AIC by another AIC and sexual abuse of an AIC by a staff
          member.
           1. Sexual abuse of an AIC by another AIC includes any of the following acts, if the victim
              does not consent, is coerced into such act by overt or implied threats of violence, or is
              unable to consent or refuse:
                a. Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus, including
                      penetration, however slight;
                b. Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
                c. Penetration of the anal or genital opening of another person, however slight, by a
                      hand, finger, object, or other instrument; and
                d. Any other intentional touching, either directly or through the clothing, of the
                      genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks of another person,
                      excluding contact incidental to a physical altercation.
           2. Sexual abuse of an AIC by a staff member, contractor or volunteer includes any of the
              following acts, with or without consent of the AIC:
Effective: 3/1/2025                          Page 2 of 15                               Policy 40.1.13
                a. Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus, including
                      penetration, however slight;
                b. Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
                c. Contact between the mouth and any body part where the staff member,
                      contractor,or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse or gratify sexual desire;
                d. Penetration of the anal or genital opening, however slight, by a hand, finger, object,
                      or other instrument, that is unrelated to official duties or where the staff member,
                      contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
                e. Any other intentional contact, either directly or through the clothing, of or with
                   the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks that is unrelated to
                   the official duties or where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the
                   intent toabuse, arouse or gratify sexual desire;
                f. Any attempt, threat, or request by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer to
                   engage in the activities described by paragraphs (A) – (E) of this section;
                g. Any display by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer of their uncovered genitalia,
                      buttocks, or breast in the presence of an AIC; and
                h. Voyeurism by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer. Voyeurism by a staff
                      member, contractor or volunteer means an invasion of privacy of an AIC by staff
                      for reasons unrelated to official duties, such as peering at an AIC who is using a
                      toilet in their cell to perform bodily functions; requiring an AIC to expose their
                      buttocks, genitals, or breasts; or taking images of all or part of an AIC’s naked body
                      or of an AIC performing bodily functions.
       L. Sexual Abuse Liaison: A management staff person designated by the facility functional unit
          manager to coordinate response, reporting, and monitoring of AIC abuse within that
          facility. The sexual abuse liaison shall be assigned as the Sexual Abuse Response Team
          (SART) leader.
       M. Sexual Abuse Response Team (SART): A multi-disciplinary team, including the Sexual
          Abuse Liaison and PREA Compliance Manager. Team members will be designated by the
          facility functional unit manager. At no time shall an employee be expected to perform
          SART member duties unless assigned in writing. This does not include employees who are
          required to conduct risk assessment screenings as part of their regular job duties.
       N. Sexual Coercion: Compelling or inducing another person to engage in sexual abuse by
          deceit, threats, force, intimidation, or for personal favors.
       O. Sexual Harassment: Repeated and unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
          or verbal comments, gestures, or actions of a derogatory or offensive sexual natureby one
          AIC directed toward another, and repeated verbal comments or gestures of a sexualnature
          to an AIC by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer, including demeaning references to
          gender, sexually suggestive or derogatory comments about body or clothing,or obscene
          language or gestures.
       P. Sexual Solicitation: The solicitation of another person to engage in sexual activity.
       Q. Staff: For purposes of this policy staff includes DOC employees, Oregon Corrections
Effective: 3/1/2025                           Page 3 of 15                                  Policy 40.1.13
           Enterprise (OCE) employees, contract service providers, and volunteers.
       R. Substantiated Allegation: An allegation that was investigated and determined to have
          occurred.
       S. Transgender: A person whose gender identity (i.e. internal sense of feeling male or
          female) is different from a person’s assigned sex at birth.
       T. Unfounded Allegation: An allegation that was investigated and determined not to have
          occurred.
       U. Unsubstantiated Allegation: An allegation that was investigated and produced
          insufficient evidence to make a final determination as to whether or not the event
          occurred.


  III. POLICY
       A. PREVENTION PLANNING
          1.    DOC staff must be able to recognize the signs of sexual abuse and sexual harassment
                and understand their responsibility in the detection, prevention, response, and
                reporting of an alleged sexual abuse or sexual harassment.
          2.    All employees, contractors and volunteers of the Department of Corrections shall sign
                the PREA Acknowledgement Statement.
          3.    As required by the Prison Rape Elimination Act, the Department of Corrections shall
                conduct criminal background records checks at least every five years of permanent,
                temporary employees and contractors, volunteers, and interns.
          4.    Security staffing standards and deployment of video monitoring systems or
                technology shall be assessed for adjustments and documented by the PREA
                Compliance Managers for facilities affected and communicate to the Agency PREA
                Coordinator.
          5.    Each facility shall require intermediate and higher-level supervisors to conduct and
                document unannounced rounds on all shifts to deter staff sexual abuse and sexual
                harassment. Staff are prohibited from alerting other staff members that the
                supervisory rounds are occurring.
          6.    Each facility shall ensure they minimize blind spots throughout the facility.
          7.    The Rule of Three must always be used in isolated and limited view areas. Entering
                isolated areas requires management approval for employees, contractors, volunteers,
                and AICs to enter together.
          8.    Each facility shall implement policies and procedures that enable AICs to shower,
                perform bodily functions, and change clothing without nonmedical staff of the
                opposite gender viewing their breasts, buttocks, or genitalia, except in exigent
                circumstances or when such viewing is incidental to routine cell checks.
          9.    Opposite gender staff shall announce themselves prior to entering an AIC housing unit
                by the method approved by the agency.
          10. When designing or acquiring any new facility and in planning any substantial
Effective: 3/1/2025                         Page 4 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
                expansion or modification of existing facilities, the department shall consider the
                effect of the design, acquisition, expansion, or modification upon the agency’s ability
                to protect AICs from sexual abuse.
          11. When installing or updating a video monitoring system, electronic surveillance
              system, or other monitoring technology, the agency shall consider how such
              technology may enhance the agency’s ability to protect AICs from sexual abuse.
          12. The department shall ensure that each facility it operates develops and documents a
              staffing plan that provides for adequate levels of staffing to protect AICs against
              sexual abuse.
          13. The agency shall not place lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or intersex AICs in
              dedicated facilities, units, or wings solely on the basis of such identification or status,
              unless such placement is in a dedicated facility, unit, or wing established in connection
              with a consent decree, legal settlement, or legal judgment for the purpose of
              protecting such AICs.

       B. TRAINING AND EDUCATION
          1.    Staff Training
                a. DOC employees will receive PREA training at least every two years. The agency
                    shall provide refresher information on current sexual abuse and sexual harassment
                    policies on years when trainings are not conducted.
                b. The department shall train staff responsible for the supervision of AICs in how to
                    conduct cross-gender pat-down searches, and searches of transgender and
                    intersex AICs, in a professional and respectful manner, and in the least intrusive
                    manner possible, consistent with security needs.
                c. The department shall train staff on how to communicate effectively and
                    professionally with AICs, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, or
                    gender nonconforming AICs.
                d. The department shall ensure that all volunteers and contractors who have contact
                    with AICs have been trained on their responsibilities based on the services they
                    provide and level of contact they have with AICs, but all volunteers and contractors
                    who have contact with AICs shall be notified of the agency’s zero- tolerance policy
                    regarding sexual abuse and sexual harassment and informed how to report such
                    incidents.
                e. In addition to general training provided to all employees, contractors and
                    volunteers the agency shall ensure that specialized training is required of Health
                    Services practitioners, SART members, DOC investigators, and other staff identified
                    by the department.
                f. The Professional Development Unit (PDU) will be responsible for the development
                    and implementation of curriculum related to sexual abuse and sexual harassment
                    for new employee orientation and annual training in consultation with the Agency
                    PREA Coordinator.
          2.    AIC Education

Effective: 3/1/2025                         Page 5 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
                a. Upon admission to DOC custody AICs will receive information about:
                      A. The agency’s zero tolerance regarding sexual abuse and sexual
                         harassment;
                      B. How to avoid risk situations related to sexual abuse and harassment;
                      C. How to safely report allegations or suspicion of sexual abuse or sexual
                         harassment, sexual coercion, and sexual solicitation;
                      D. How to obtain mental health services and/or medical services if victimized;
                      E. The risks and potential consequences for engaging in any type ofsexual
                         activity while incarcerated;
                      F. An AIC’s right to be free from sexual abuse and harassment;
                      G. An AIC’s right to be free from retaliation from reporting such incidents; and
                   H. The agencies policies and procedures for responding to such incidents.
                b. The department shall ensure that key information is continuously and readily
                   available or visible to AICs through posters, AIC handbooks, or other written
                   formats.
                c. Each facility will display posters or other materials, in appropriate locations to
                   include housing units and common areas where AICs gather, which are designed
                   to inform all AICs:
                      A. That DOC has zero tolerance toward sexual abuse and sexual harassment;
                      B. That all AICs are encouraged to report any and all instances of sexual abuse or
                         sexual harassment; and
                   C. The current methods available for reporting.
                d. The agency shall provide AIC education in formats accessible to all AICs, including
                   those who are limited English proficient, deaf, visually impaired, or otherwise
                   disabled, as well as to AICs who have limited reading skills.

       C. SCREENING FOR RISK OF SEXUAL VICTIMIZATION AND ABUSIVENESS
          The department shall provide housing assignments that reduce the likelihood of sexual
          abuse and sexual harassment while an AIC is in DOC custody.
          1.    AICs will be assessed within 72 hours of arrival at all DOC facilities and again within 30
                days to determine whether they meet specific criteria indicating either vulnerability or
                likelihood of perpetrating sexual abuse. AICs may not be disciplined for refusing to
                answer, or for failing to disclose information regarding the assessment questions.
                a. Vulnerable AICs: AICs will be evaluated at Intake to specifically determine their
                    vulnerability to sexual abuse as indicated by the following risk factors:
                      A. Age;
                      B. Physical stature;
                      C. Mental, physical, or developmental disability;
                      D. Sex offense convictions;
Effective: 3/1/2025                          Page 6 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
                      E. First time offender status (first time in DOC custody);
                      F. Past history of sexual victimization;
                      G. AIC’s own perception of vulnerability;
                      H. Whether the AIC is or is perceived to be lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
                         intersex, or gender nonconforming; and
                      I. Whether the AIC’s criminal history is exclusively nonviolent.
                b.    Aggressive AICs: AICs will be evaluated to specifically determine if there are
                      indications that they may be a sexually abusive AIC, or are prone to victimize other
                      AICs, especially in regard to sexual behavior. The initial screening shall consider
                      prior acts of sexual abuse, prior convictions for violent offenses, and history of
                      prior facility violence or sexual abuse, as known to the agency, in assessing AICs
                      for risk of being sexually abusive. DOC shall not consider lesbian, gay, bisexual,
                      transgender, or intersex identification or status as an indicator of likelihood of
                      being sexually abusive.
                c.    An AIC should be identified for potential vulnerability or potential aggressiveness
                      by utilizing an objective risk screening tool unless there is sufficient documentation
                      by the reviewer to warrant concern.
                d.    An AIC’s risk level shall be reassessed when warranted due to a referral, request,
                      incident of sexual abuse, or receipt of additional information that bears on the
                      AIC’s risk of sexual victimization or abusiveness.
                e.    AICs at high risk for sexual victimization shall not be placed in administrative
                      housing unless an assessment of all available alternatives determines that there is
                      no available alternative means of separation from likely abusers. If a facility cannot
                f.    conduct such an assessment immediately, the facility may hold the AIC in
                      administrative housing for less than 24 hours while completing the assessment.
                      A. AICs placed in administrative housing for this purpose shall have access to
                         programs, privileges, education, and work opportunities to the extent possible. If
                         the facility restricts access to programs, privileges, education, or work
                         opportunities, the facility shall document:
                          i.    The opportunities that have been limited;
                         ii.    The duration of the limitation; and
                         iii.   The reasons for such limitations.
                      B. The facility shall assign such AICs to administrative housing only until an
                         alternative means of separation from likely abusers can be arranged. Such an
                         assignment shall not ordinarily exceed a period of 30 days. An AIC placed in
                         involuntary administrative housing exceeding 30 days will receive a hearing by a
                         hearings officer in accordance with the rule on Administrative Housing (OAR 291-
                         046).
                      C. If an administrative housing assignment is made, the officer-in- charge shall
                         clearly document:
                          i.    The basis for the facility’s concern for the AICs safety; and
Effective: 3/1/2025                            Page 7 of 15                                     Policy 40.1.13
                         ii.   The reason why no alternative means of separation can be arranged.
                   D. Every 30 days, the facility shall afford each such AIC a review to determine
                       whether there is a continuing need for separation from the general population.
                g. In deciding AIC housing and programming assignments for transgender or intersex
                   AICs, the department shall consider on a case-by-case basis whether a placement
                   would ensure the AIC’s health and safety, and whether the placement would
                   present management or security problems.
                      A. If requested, transgender and intersex AICs shall be given the opportunity to
                         shower separately from other AICs.
                      B. A transgender or intersex AIC’s own views with respect to their own safety shall
                         be given serious consideration.
          2.    The PREA Compliance Manager or designee will review placement and programming
                assignments for each transgender or intersex AIC at least twice each year to review
                any threats to safety experienced by the AIC.
          3.    The department makes individualized determinations about how to ensure the safety
                of each AIC including housing, work assignments and access to services.
          4.    The department shall use information from the risk screening to inform housing, bed,
                work, education, and program assignments with the goal of keeping separate those
                AICs at high risk of being sexually victimized from those at high risk of being sexually
                abusive.

       D. REPORTING
          1.    AIC Reporting
                a. Access to services for the victims of sexual abuse, sexual solicitation, sexual
                   harassment, or sexual coercion will not be dependent on the victim’s willingness
                   to report or provide testimony; however, in large measure, the reporting is critical
                   to the timely delivery of necessary services to the victim and holding perpetrators
                   accountable.
                b. AICs are encouraged to report when either of the following conditions exists:
                      A. The AIC has been or is currently a victim of sexual abuse, sexual solicitation, sexual
                         harassment, or sexual coercion while incarcerated; or
                      B. The AIC has knowledge or suspicions of sexual abuse, sexual solicitation, sexual
                         harassment, or sexual coercion having occurred or occurring in a correctional
                         facility, or any staff neglect or violation of responsibilities that may have
                         contributed to such an incident.
                          i.   AICs who report to DOC staff that they have been sexually abused or have
                               knowledge or suspicions of another AIC who has been sexually abused,
                               sexually solicited, sexually harassed, or sexually coerced, do so with the
                               understanding that DOC staff will investigate and where appropriate, refer
                               to the Oregon State Police and Special Investigations Unit.
                         ii.   When interviewing AICs concerning sexual abuse, sexual solicitation, sexual

Effective: 3/1/2025                           Page 8 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
                                harassment, and sexual coercion, all DOC staff will inform AICs of any limits
                                to confidentiality prior to conducting the interview.
                c.    PREA information collected during investigations or intake assessments is
                      considered sensitive and should only be shared with those staff with a need to
                      know as part of their assigned duties.
                d.    All allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment shall be confidential, and
                      limited to those staff who have a legitimate need to know as part of their assigned
                      duties.
                e.    Under no circumstances should access to treatment resources be denied an AIC
                      victim solely because the AIC will not fully disclose details to investigative staff or
                      Health Services staff.
                f.    The credibility of an alleged victim, suspect, or witness shall be assessed on an
                      individual basis and shall not be determined by the person’s status as AIC or staff.
                      DOC will not require an AIC who alleges sexual abuse to submit to a polygraph
                      examination or other truth-telling device as a condition for proceeding with the
                      investigation of such an allegation.
                g.     The agency may discipline an AIC for alleging sexual abuse, only when it is in bad
                      faith. A report of sexual abuse made in good faith based upon a reasonable belief
                      that the alleged conduct occurred shall not constitute falsely reporting an incident
                      or lying, even if an investigation does not establish evidence sufficient to
                      substantiate the allegation. Abusers shall be disciplined in accordance with (OAR
                      291-105) Prohibited Conduct and Processing Disciplinary Actions.
                h.    AIC interpreters, AIC readers, or other types of AIC assistants should not be used
                      except in limited circumstances where an extended delay in obtaining an effective
                      interpreter could compromise the AIC’s safety, the performance of first-response
                      duties, or the investigation of the AIC’s allegations.
          2.    Staff Reporting
                a. All staff will report immediately any knowledge, suspicion, or information
                    regarding sexual abuse, sexual harassment, retaliation by AIC or staff for reporting,
                    or staff neglect or violation of responsibility that may have contributed to such
                    incidents. When an AIC reports sexual abuse, sexual solicitation, sexual
                    harassment, or sexual coercion to DOC staff members, staff will, except as noted
                    elsewhere in this policy, contact the OIC or supervisor immediately.
                b. The OIC will initiate action as outlined in this policy and the OIC PREA Checklist (CD
                    1621) to mitigate:
                      A. Immediate harm to the victim or reporter; and/or
                   B. Damage to potential crime scenes or evidence.
                c. The Department of Corrections, through the Inspector General’s Office, shall offer
                   a “PREA Hotline” to accept recorded reports of sexual abuse or sexual harassment
                   in DOC facilities or other areas under DOC control. Staff may utilize the Inspector
                   General’s Hotline or the Governor’s Office to privately report all allegations of
                   sexual abuse or sexual harassment. Such reports will be investigated within the
                   limitations of information provided. When the victims of sexual abuse, sexual
Effective: 3/1/2025                           Page 9 of 15                                  Policy 40.1.13
                   solicitation, sexual harassment, or sexual coercion can be identified by
                   investigators, they will be offered access to necessary services available through
                   DOC, regardless of their willingness to report or provide testimony.
                d. Staff shall accept reports made verbally, in writing, anonymously, and from third
                   parties and shall promptly document any reports. Upon notification by an AIC that
                   they have been sexually abused or coerced into unwanted sexual contact, the staff
                   member shall immediately complete the Staff Reporting Responsibilities form (CD
                   1620). (See the attached PREA Reporting Chart.)
                e. If the alleged victim is under the age of 18 or considered a vulnerable adult under
                   a state or local vulnerable persons statute, the department shall report the
                   allegation to the designated State or local services agency under applicable
                   mandatory reporting laws.

       E. OFFICIAL RESPONSE FOLLOWING AN AIC REPORT
          1.    When the Oregon Department of Corrections learns that an AIC is subject to a
                substantial risk of imminent sexual abuse, it will take immediate action to protect the
                AIC.
          2.    Upon receiving an allegation that an AIC was sexually abused while confined at
                another facility, the head of the facility that received the allegation shall notify the
                head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency where the alleged abuse
                occurred.
                a. Such notification shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than 72 hours
                   after receiving the allegation.
                b. The agency shall document that it has provided such notification.
                c. The facility head or agency office that receives such notification shall ensure that
                   the allegation is investigated.
          3.    The PREA Compliance Manager shall be responsible for monitoring all AICs and staff
                who report sexual abuse or sexual harassment or cooperate with sexual abuse or
                sexual harassment investigations from retaliation by other AICs or staff.
                a. Monitoring will continue for at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse.
                   The PREA Compliance Manager shall monitor the conduct and treatment of AICs
                   or staff who reported the sexual abuse and of AICs who were reported to have
                b. suffered sexual abuse to see if there are changes that may suggest possible
                   retaliation by AICs and staff and shall act promptly to remedy any such retaliation.
                c. All actions taken to remedy any such retaliation will be documented and forwarded
                   to the Agency PREA Coordinator and the sexual abuse liaison.
                d. Items the agency should monitor include:
                      A. AIC disciplinary reports;
                      B. Housing assignments;
                      C. Program changes; and
                   D. Negative performance reviews or reassignments of staff.
                e. In the case of AICs, such monitoring shall also include periodic status checks.
Effective: 3/1/2025                           Page 10 of 15                              Policy 40.1.13
                f. The agency shall continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring
                   indicates a continuing need.
                g. If any other individual who cooperates with an investigation expresses a fear of
                   retaliation, the agency shall take appropriate measures to protect that individual
                   against retaliation.
                h. An agency’s obligation to monitor shall terminate if the agency determines that
                   the allegation is unfounded.
       F. AIC ACCESS TO OUTSIDE CONFIDENTIAL SERVICES
          1.    The department shall make available to AICs mailing addresses and telephone
                numbers, (including toll-free crisis line numbers where available), of local, State, or
                national victim advocacy or rape crisis organizations and outside victim advocates for
                emotional support services related to sexual abuse. The facility shall enable
                reasonable communication between AICs and these organizations and agencies, in as
                confidential a manner as possible.
          2.    As requested by the AIC, a victim advocate shall accompany and support the AIC
                through the forensic medical examination and investigatory interview providing
                emotional support, crisis intervention, information, and referrals.
       G. INVESTIGATIONS
          1.    All allegations of sexual abuse and sexual harassment will be investigated.
          2.    When the agency conducts its own investigations into allegations of sexual abuse and
                sexual harassment, it shall do so promptly, thoroughly, and objectively for all
                allegations, including third-party and anonymous reports.
          3.    Allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment of an AIC by a staff member as
                defined in this policy will be reviewed and referred to the appropriate investigator as
                specified in the DOC policy on Investigations 70.1.4.
          4.    Allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment of an AIC by an AIC will be referred
                to the appropriate investigator as specified in the DOC policy on Investigations 70.1.4.
          5.    Reporting to AICs: In the event of an AIC allegation of sexual abuse, the PREA
                compliance manager shall:
                a. Following an investigation into an AIC’s allegation that they suffered sexual abuse
                   in an agency facility, the PREA Compliance Manager or designee at that facility shall
                   inform the AIC as to whether the allegation has been determined to be
                   substantiated, unsubstantiated, or unfounded;
                b. If the agency did not conduct the investigation, it shall request the relevant
                   information from the investigative agency in order to inform the AIC;
                c. Following an AIC’s allegation that a staff member has committed sexual abuse
                   against the AIC and the findings are substantiated or unsubstantiated, the PREA
                   Compliance Manager or designee shall inform the AIC whenever:
                      A. The staff member is no longer posted within the AIC’s unit;
                      B. The staff member is no longer employed at the facility;

Effective: 3/1/2025                          Page 11 of 15                               Policy 40.1.13
                      C. The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been indicted on a charge related to
                         sexual abuse within the facility; and/or
                      D. The agency learns that the alleged abuser has been convicted on a charge related
                           to sexual abuse within the facility.
                d.    All such notifications or attempted notifications shall be documented by the PREA
                      Compliance Manager or designee.
                e.    The PREA Compliance Manager or designee’s obligation to report shall terminate
                      if the AIC is released from the department’s custody.
                f.    The departure of the alleged abuser or victim from the employment or control of
                      the facility or agency shall not provide a basis for terminating an investigation.
                g.    DOC shall impose no standard higher than a preponderance of evidence in
                      determining whether allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment are
                      substantiated.
       H. MEDICAL AND MENTAL CARE
          It is the intention of DOC that there will be no long-term forfeiture of services and programs
          for victims of sexual abuse, sexual coercion, sexual harassment, or sexual solicitation.
          Recognizing that the safety of the victim is paramount, the least restrictive housing program
          assignments will be implemented to achieve that goal.
          1.    Medical: Medical access to services for victims of sexual abuse will be handled in
                accordance with Health Services policy on procedure #P-F-06.1 (Procedure in the
                Event of Sexual Abuse) that includes:
                a. Timely, unimpeded access to emergency medical treatment without financial cost
                   as determined by the medical practitioners’ professional judgment;
                b. Necessary post event treatment including coordination with community hospitals;
                c. Testing and prophylactic treatment for sexually transmitted infections (STI);
                d. Comprehensive information and timely access to all lawful pregnancy related
                   medical services;
                e. Referral to Behavioral Health Services; and
                f. Communication with the sexual abuse liaison regarding any information deemed
                   not confidential.
          2.    Behavioral Health Services: Mental health services for victims of sexual abuse will be
                provided in accordance with Behavioral Health Service policies and procedures which
                include:
                a. Timely, unimpeded access to appropriate mental health evaluation services
                    without financial cost as determined by the mental health treatment providers’
                    professional judgment;
                b. Comprehensive information of limits of confidentiality and duty to report;
                c. Completion of a mental health evaluation to include a suicide risk screening
                    interview;
                d. Notification to the OIC and Medical Services regarding recommended actions that
                e. may include suicide precautions;
Effective: 3/1/2025                          Page 12 of 15                              Policy 40.1.13
                f. Provision of follow-up mental health services.
                g. Communication with the PREA Compliance Manager regarding any information
                   deemed not confidential; and
                h. Consultation with the OIC and Medical Services regarding suicide precaution
                   measures that will be implemented if the AIC is housed at an facility where there
                   are no mental health services on site.

       I. DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS FOR STAFF, CONTRACTORS, AND VOLUNTEERS
          1.    Staff shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including termination for
                violating agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies.
          2.    Termination shall be the presumptive disciplinary sanction for staff who have engaged
                in sexual abuse.
          3.    Disciplinary actions for violations of agency policies relating to sexual abuse or sexual
                harassment (other than actually engaging in sexual abuse) shall be commensurate
                with the nature and circumstances of the acts committed, the staff member’s
                disciplinary history, and the sanctions imposed for comparable offenses by other staff
                with similar histories.
          4.    All terminations for violations of agency sexual abuse or sexual harassment policies, or
                resignations by staff who have been terminated if not for their resignation, shall be
                reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the activity was clearly not criminal,
                and to any relevant licensing bodies.
          5.    Any contractor or volunteer who engages in sexual abuse shall be prohibited from
                contact with AICs and shall be reported to law enforcement agencies, unless the
                activity was clearly not criminal, and to relevant licensing bodies.
          6.    The facility shall take appropriate remedial measures and shall consider whether to
                prohibit further contact with AICs, in the case of any other violation of agency sexual
                abuse or sexual harassment policies by contractor or volunteer.

       J. DATA COLLECTION AND REVIEW
          1.    The department shall collect information related to the purposes outlined at the
                beginning of this policy; specifically, to gather data that will help DOC reduce the risk
                that sexual abuse and sexual harassment would occur within DOC facilities.
          2.     The facility shall conduct a sexual abuse incident review at the conclusion of every
                sexual abuse investigation, including where the allegation has not been substantiated,
                unless the allegation has been determined to be unfounded. Such review shall
                ordinarily occur within 30 days of the conclusion of the investigation. The review team
                shall include upper-level management officials, with input from line supervisors,
                investigators, and medical or mental health practitioners. The review team shall:
                a. Consider whether the allegation or investigation indicates a need to change policy
                    or practice to better prevent, detect, or respond to sexual abuse;
                b. Consider whether the incident or allegation was motivated by race, ethnicity,

Effective: 3/1/2025                         Page 13 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
                         gender identity, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex identification,
                         status, or perceived status; or gang affiliation; or was motivated or otherwise
                         caused by other group dynamics at the facility;
                    c.   Examine the area in the facility where the incident allegedly occurred to assess
                         whether physical barriers in the area may enable abuse;
                    d.   Assess the adequacy of staffing levels in that area during different shifts;
                    e.   Assess whether monitoring technology should be deployed or augmented to
                         supplement supervision by staff; and
                    f.   Prepare a report of its findings, including but not necessarily limited to
                         determinations made and any recommendations for improvement and submit
                         such report to the PREA Compliance Manager, Functional Unit Manager, Agency
                         PREA Coordinator, and when the allegation is substantiated, Institutions
                         Administrator.
                    g.   The facility shall implement the recommendations for improvement or shall
                         document its reasons for not doing so.
                    h.   The Agency PREA Coordinator shall be responsible to identify the specific data that
                         must be collected and to work with the PREA Compliance Manager from each
                         facility to assure data is submitted within the required timeframe. The agency also
                         shall obtain incident-based and aggregated data from every private facility with
                         which it contracts for the confinement of its AICs. This data will be compiled in
                         annual reports for submission to the Director. The Agency PREA Coordinator will
                         prepare the annual report that will include:
                         A. Identifying problem areas;
                         B. Taking corrective action on an ongoing basis;
                         C. Preparing an annual report of its findings and corrective actions for each facility, as
                            well as the agency as a whole;
                         D. Including an assessment of the agency’s progress in addressing sexual abuse by
                            comparing the current year’s data and corrective actions with those from prior
                            years.
                         E. Ensuring the agency’s report shall be approved by the agency head and made
                            readily available to the public through its website; and
                         F. Redacting specific material from the reports when publication would present a
                            clear and specific threat to the safety and security of a facility and indicating the
                            nature of the material redacted.
               i.        The incident-based data collected shall include, at a minimum, the data necessary
                         to answer all questions from the most recent version of the Survey of Sexual
                         Violence conducted by the Department of Justice. Upon request, the Agency PREA
                         Coordinator shall provide all such data from the previous calendar year to the
                         Department of Justice no later than June 30 or by the date requested.
          3.        Ensure that audits include inspection for areas and situations where sexual abuse may
                    be likely to occur and recommend mitigation for those areas and situations.

Effective: 3/1/2025                              Page 14 of 15                                 Policy 40.1.13
          4.    Collect and compile data and coordinate surveys to ensure continuity of services,
                operational improvements, and establishment of baselines.

  IV. IMPLEMENTATION
       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification. DOC facilities may
       develop a facility-specific procedure to implement this policy.


Certified: signature on file
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: signature on file
Michael Reese, Director




Effective: 3/1/2025                        Page 15 of 15                               Policy 40.1.13
