                                   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                       Correctional Programs


 Title:              Behavioral Change Programs                  DOC Policy:     90.1.5
                                                                                 DOC Policy 90.1.4
 Effective:          8/1/25                                      Supersedes:
                                                                                 effective 3/29/16
 Applicability:      All functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
                  OAR 291-109 - Grievance Review System (AIC)
                  OAR 291-077 - Performance Recognition and Award System
                  DOC Policy 90.1.3 - Correctional Case Management
 Attachments:
                  Behavioral Change Programs Eligibility and Screening Criteria

I.        PURPOSE

          The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for providing behavioral change
          program interventions that are designed to address criminal risk factors and reduce the risk
          of future criminal behavior.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of
             Corrections (DOC) who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

          B. Behavioral Change Programs include the following:

              1. Cognitive Restructuring Programs: Skill-building programs designed to help adults in
                 custody examine attitudes, values, belief systems, and thinking patterns that may
                 lead to criminal behavior and replace these attitudes, values, belief systems, and
                 thinking patterns with pro-social skills that may lead to successful reentry.

              2. Parenting Programs: Skills training programs created for criminal justice-involved
                 parents and families. Programs are designed to help adults in custody acquire skills
                 that may improve parent-child interactions, enhance family relationships, and
                 replace anti-social parenting styles with pro-social skills that may promote healthy
                 child adjustment and prevent problem behaviors with children.

          C. Contract Service Providers (CSP): Agencies or individuals under contract with the
             Department of Corrections to provide treatment and behavioral change program
             services.


Effective: 8/1/25                              Page 1 of 5                                 Policy 90.1.5
        D. Program Designee: The department employee assigned the responsibility for oversight
           of an institution program that is not provided by a contractor.

        E. Pull Meeting: A process designed to develop a class master roster of adults in custody
           for placement in Department of Corrections programs. Some of the programs include
           Free Your Mind, Moving On (a program designed for justice-involved women), and
           Parenting Inside Out.

III.    POLICY

        A. Programs Planning, Coordination, and Oversight

             1. The Correctional Case Management Administrator shall have overall responsibility
                for the planning and coordination of all behavioral change programs throughout the
                department.

             2. Correctional Case Management Administrator responsibilities shall include, but are
                not limited to:
                    a. Planning for the department-wide placement of behavioral change programs;

                    b. Supervising the programs’ delivery systems through the administering and
                       monitoring of contracts with contract service providers;

                    c. Establishing and maintaining eligibility criteria for behavioral change programs;
                       and

                    d. Developing prioritization criteria to be followed when demand for programming
                       exceeds availability.

        B. Program Standards

             Behavioral change programs shall address a wide range of individual issues including,
             but not limited to, motivation and stages of change, criminal thinking errors, relapse,
             triggers, anger management, and emotional regulation. Programs may emphasize the
             interference of criminality with basic life functioning as well as appropriate parenting
             and pro-social interactions with the community.

             1. Behavioral change programs shall utilize evidence-based curriculum and
                research-based practices in the delivery of program interventions to target
                criminogenic need.

             2. Completion of Program: The Correctional Case Management Administrator shall
                develop and maintain program completion standard criteria to be used by all
                institutions with behavioral change programs.


Effective: 8/1/25                                 Page 2 of 5                                 Policy 90.1.5
                    a. Program standards shall be defined in the contract agreements between the
                        Department of Corrections and the contract service provider.

                    b. The Correctional Case Management Administrator will review the program
                       standards with each institution correctional rehabilitation manager by
                       September 1 at the beginning of each biennium.

        C. Program Needs Assessment

             The department shall use evidence-based criminal risk factor assessments, behavioral
             screening tools, and a variety of research-based methods to assess an adult in custody’s
             program needs for appropriate program placement.

        D. Programs Referrals, Eligibility Screening, and Placement

             Correctional Counselors shall review case plans according to established practices of
             effective case management and criteria from the Correctional Case Management
             Administrator to refer adults in custody to the contract service provider for placement
             in behavioral change programs following the pull meeting process.

        E. Program Refusals from Adults in Custody

             Adults in custody who are offered mandatory or required programs (for example,
             cognitive restructuring) must participate in programming as prescribed in their Oregon
             Corrections Plan. Those refusing to participate in a required program shall receive a
             program failure, which may result in failure to receive earned time credit.

             Although program refusals generally occur prior to program entry, an adult in custody’s
             voluntary exit from a required program shall also be considered a program refusal for
             purposes of program outcome data and will result in a program failure and failure to
             receive earned time credit.

        F. Behavioral Change Program Extensions, Suspensions, and Removals

             1. Behavioral Change Program Extensions and Suspensions: Behavioral change
             programs are not designed to provide program extensions or suspensions.

             2. Behavioral Change Program Removals:

                    a. Administrative Removals: Adults in custody unable to continue participation in
                        their behavioral change program due to no fault of their own (such as, medical
                        or mental health reasons, insufficient time left, etc.) may be administratively
                        removed from the program. An administrative removal shall be determined in
                        accordance with the department’s policy on Correctional Case Management


Effective: 8/1/25                                Page 3 of 5                                  Policy 90.1.5
                       (DOC policy 90.1.3). Administrative removals will not prevent adults in custody
                       from future participation in behavioral change programs.

                    b. Program Failures:

                       A. Adults in custody failing to progress in behavioral change programs shall be
                          considered a program failure. Program failures shall be recommended by
                          the contract service provider program manager to the Correctional
                          Counselor and multidisciplinary team for review, approval, and disposition
                          in accordance with the department’s policy on Correctional Case
                          Management (DOC policy 90.1.3) and the department’s rule on
                          Performance Recognition and Award System (OAR 291-077).

                       B. Adults in custody who voluntarily exit (sign out) from a behavioral change
                          program shall be considered a program failure for the purposes of outcome
                          data and earned time eligibility.

                       C. A program failure may be issued to an adult in custody if their conduct
                          makes them unavailable for programming when they were enrolled in the
                          program.

        G. Program Failure Notification and Grievances

             1. Behavioral Change Program Failure Notification to Adults in Custody:

                    Adults in custody who receive a program failure from a behavioral change program
                    will be notified in writing. The Measure 17 Coordinator, work programs assignment
                    coordinator, or designee shall complete the program removal notification.

             2. Grievances for Behavioral Change Program Failures:

                    Program Failures are generally not grievable in accordance with the department’s
                    rule on Grievance Review System (AIC) (OAR 291-109); however, allegations relating
                    to unprofessional or misapplication of department policy, rules, or other directives
                    are generally grievable under the rule. Adults in custody should consult with the
                    designated Institution Grievance Coordinator regarding their particular
                    circumstances.

        H. Monitoring and Evaluation of Programs

             The Correctional Case Management Administrator shall be responsible to monitor and
             evaluate program quality, adherence to evidence-based practices, and contractual
             compliance of the behavioral change programs.



Effective: 8/1/25                                Page 4 of 5                                 Policy 90.1.5
IV.     IMPLEMENTATION

        This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: ______signature on file_________________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _____signature on file__________________
Michael Reese, Director




Effective: 8/1/25                           Page 5 of 5                         Policy 90.1.5
                                                                ATTACHMENT
                                          Behavioral Change Programs Eligibility and Screening Criteria
     Type of
  Intervention                                                           Criteria for Screening
                   ACRS*                LS/CMI                        WRNA                                        Other Considerations
                                                                                            •     Program required on AIC’s OCP?
   Cognitive                1.7 Medium/High/Very High
                                                                                            •     Sentence Length – Is there enough time for the AIC to
 Restructuring     ≥ 0.15   Pro-criminal Attitude or
                                                                                                  complete the program prior to release?
   Programs                 Orientation
                                                                                            •     Stage of Change – At what stage is the AIC? Is the AIC
                                                                                                  receptive to programming?
                            1.8 Medium/High/Very High                                       •     Scheduling Conflicts – Are there programming or work
                   ≥ 0.15                                                                         assignment conflicts?
                            Antisocial Pattern
                                                                                            •     Review for AIC relationship conflicts between the AIC
                                                                                                  participants
                                                          4 & higher - Antisocial Attitudes •     Review for AIC safety – potential PREA or vulnerable AIC
                                                          3 & higher - Antisocial Friends         concerns (such as, sex offenders)
                                                          4 & higher - Anger/Hostility
                   ≥ 0.15
                                                          2 & higher - Family Conflict
                                                          4 & higher - Relationships
                                                                       Difficulty

                                                                                            Counselor referrals prioritize:
                                                                                            • AICs with open DHS cases (as verified by DOC counselor)
   Parenting        N/A                                                                     • AICs with minor child(ren)
   Programs                                                                                 • AICs who will be the grandparent or primary caregiver of
                                                                                              minor child(ren)

                    *Low-ACRS AICs may be considered on a case-by-case basis for enrollment in a behavioral change program and
                                    requires the approval of the Correctional Case Management Administrator.

ACRS = Automated Criminal Risk Score
AIC    = Adult in Custody
OCP    = Oregon Corrections Plan
LS/CMI = Level of Service Case Management Inventory
WRNA = Women’s Risk Needs Assessment




Behavioral Change Programs Policy 90.1.5 – Attachment                                                                                                  (8/1/25)
