                                       DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                            Employee Services

 Title:               Code of Conduct                            DOC Policy: 20.1.3
 Effective:           7/22/25                                    Supersedes: 11/13/19
 Applicability:       All employees and non-employee service providers
 Directives Cross-Reference:
         Rule:         OAR 291-013 Use of Force
                       OAR 291-105 Prohibited Conduct and Processing Disciplinary Actions
         Policies:     DAS Policy 50.010.03 Maintaining a Professional Workplace
                      DOC Policy 20.5.18 Drug and Alcohol Testing of Employees
                       DOC Policy 20.6.2 Drug-Free Workplace
                       DOC Policy 20.6.3 Smoke-Free Workplace
 Attachments: None

I.        PURPOSE

          To establish a code of conduct for all Department of Corrections (DOC) employees and non-
          employee service providers.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A.   Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections
               who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

          B.   Adult on Supervision: Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections
               who is on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

          C.   Contraband: Any article or thing which an adult in custody is prohibited by statute, rule, or
               order from obtaining, possessing, or which the adult in custody is not specifically
               authorized to obtain or possess or which the adult in custody alters without authorization.

          D.   Employees: For the purposes of this policy, any person employed full-time, part-time, or
               under temporary appointment by the Department of Corrections. This includes executive
               and management service, classified and unrepresented employees, and non-employee
               service providers.

          E.   Non-Employee Service Provider: An individual who provides services or programs to the
               department or to adults in custody, including those who provide services or programs
               remotely, but not as a paid employee of the department. Examples of non-employee
               service providers include, but are not limited to, contractors, volunteers, mentors, student

                                                  Page 1 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                             Policy 20.1.3
             interns, criminal justice partners, and government agency partners.

III.   POLICY

       Every employee of the Department of Corrections shall constantly strive to attain the highest
       standards of conduct and maintain fidelity to the principles of professional public service. This
       requires employees adhere to the code of ethics and meet the vision, values, rules, policies, and
       procedures of the department.
       Every employee’s conduct must be above reproach and must not impugn the credibility and
       integrity of the department, its employees, or the corrections profession.
       Failure by employees to follow this policy may result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and
       including dismissal.
       It is essential to the orderly operation of the department that employees conduct themselves
       professionally, in accordance with the following standards:
       A. Compliance with Directives
            1. Employees shall not knowingly engage in or neglect actions that violate any of the
               policies, rules, procedures, regulations, directives, or orders of the department.
            2. The practice of management providing direction to employees and ensuring the
               implementation of that direction is essential to delivering services to agency staff, adults
               in the custody of the Department of Corrections, and the citizens of Oregon. Policies and
               orders specific to each position cannot cover all duties and expectations necessary to
               fulfill the mission of the Oregon Department of Corrections. Employees are expected to
               carry out additional duties as assigned by their supervisors to support the organization’s
               daily goals and objectives.
            3. Regardless of personal opinions or perspectives, employees are obligated, during paid
               work time, to comply with management’s directives and expectations which are legal,
               moral, and ethical.
        B. Compliance with Laws
            1. Employees are required to comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws in the
               jurisdiction where they are located.
            2. If an employee is charged with, arrested for, or convicted of any felony, misdemeanor,
               or traffic violation resulting in a suspended license, the employee must promptly notify
               their supervisor in writing.
       C.   Department of Public Safety Standards and Training (DPSST) Notification
            1. A Department of Public Safety Standards and Training-certified corrections officer or
               certified instructor who is arrested or receives a criminal citation to appear (or its
               equivalent) for any criminal offense must notify Department of Corrections and
               Department of Public Safety Standards and Training within five business days.
            2. Notification must be in writing and include the date of the arrest or citation, the location
                                                Page 2 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                            Policy 20.1.3
                of the arrest or citation, the reason for the arrest or citation, and the arresting or citing
                agency.
       D. Reporting for Duty
            Employees shall report for duty at the time and place required by assignment or orders and
            shall be capable of performing all the essential functions required of their position.
       E.   Attentiveness to Duty
            1. Employees shall not engage in any activities or personal business that would cause them
               to neglect their duty.
            2. Employees shall remain awake, fully alert, and attentive.
       F.   Truthfulness
            1. Employees shall be truthful in rendering any report or complaint, in giving testimony, or
               in giving any official statement about any action taken that relates to the employee’s
               employment, position, or duties.
            2. Every employee is obligated to promptly report to the proper management authority
               any illegal acts or acts that would pose an immediate threat to the safety, security, and
               welfare of employees or adults in custody, and any violations of post orders, rules,
               regulations, policies, and procedures.
            3. Employees who possess factual knowledge of behavior that should be communicated to
               the proper authority and choose not to report it may be subject to disciplinary action.
            4. Employees will not take any action or make any statement to deceive or mislead the
               agency or its representatives in performing or processing their work, on paid work time,
               or administrative leave.
            5. Employees will not be intentionally misleading or deceptive while performing their
               professional duties for the agency, on paid work time, or administrative leave. Being
               misleading or deceptive could include omission or deflection which fails to provide
               information and leaves an inaccurate understanding or impression.
       G. Misuse of Department Position or Identification
            1. Employees shall not use their department position, identification card, or badge for:
                a. Personal or financial gain;
                b. Partisan political purpose;
                c. Obtaining privileges not otherwise available to them except in the performance of
                   duty; or
                d. Avoiding consequences of illegal acts.
            2. Employees shall not lend their department-issued uniforms, identification cards, or
               badges to another person.
            3. Employees shall not permit any department-issued identification cards or badges to be
               photographed or reproduced.
                                                 Page 3 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                              Policy 20.1.3
       H. Relationships with Adults in Custody or Adults on Supervision
            1. All employees shall confine their relationship with an adult in custody or an adult on
               supervision, or their family and friends, to those activities which are within the scope of
               the employee’s duties. Requests for exceptions must be submitted in writing to, and
               approved by, the employee’s functional unit manager. Upon receipt of authorization,
               the employee shall provide a copy to the supervising authority.
            2. Employees shall complete a Notice of Employee/Client Relationship/Request for Conflict
               form (CD1472) and submit written notification to their supervisor as soon as they know
               a relative or close personal acquaintance is an adult in custody or an adult on supervision
               within Oregon, which includes federal, state, county, and city or local law enforcement.
               After the form is signed by management, it will be sent to a Senior Human Resources
               Business Partner and placed in the employee’s state human resources information
               system profile.
            3. Employees shall not become emotionally, romantically, or sexually involved with an
               adult in custody or adult on supervision.
            4. Employees shall not allow an adult in custody to engage in any behavior of a sexual
               nature with another adult in custody and shall intervene to prevent this behavior if it is
               observed.
            5. An employee shall use the reasonable amount of force necessary to gain compliance as
               defined in the department’s rule on Use of Force (OAR 291-013). Reasonable force is
               defined as, “The use of physical force to achieve a legitimate correctional objective,
               where the type and amount of force are consistent with the situation and the objective
               to be achieved; and where alternatives to physical force are unavailable or ineffective;
               and where the force used is the minimum necessary to control the situation.”
            6. An employee shall not use profane, obscene, or other abusive language or intimidation
               toward an adult in custody.
       I.   Relationships with Colleagues and Courtesy Toward Others
            1. In the performance of their duties, employees are expected to be respectful, courteous,
               and considerate toward all members of the department and the general public.
            2. Employees shall not use terminology that disrespects or violates the dignity or the
               human rights of others.
            3. Employees shall not engage in inappropriate workplace behavior as defined in
               Department of Administrative Services (DAS) policy 50.010.03 Maintaining a
               Professional Workplace.
            4. Communication with your coworkers and managers will always be honest and forthright
               while performing your professional duties for the agency, on paid work time, or
               administrative leave.
            5. Employees shall not engage in any sexual contact while on duty or while acting in the
               official capacity of their position.

                                                Page 4 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                           Policy 20.1.3
       J.   Introduction of Contraband
            The introduction of contraband, as defined in the department’s rule on Prohibited Conduct
            and Processing Disciplinary Actions (OAR 291-105), by an employee or non-employee
            service provider into any department worksite without the functional unit manager’s
            knowledge and consent is prohibited.
       K.   Dissemination of Information
            1. Department of Corrections shall ensure public records shall be available to all persons
               consistent with all department procedures and laws governing the disclosure of such
               records.
            2. Employees shall not remove information from files or make copies of records,
               documents, or any other department information, except in accordance with
               established procedures or upon proper authorization.
            3. Each employee shall maintain the integrity of information received in the course of
               employment with the department, not seek information beyond that needed to
               perform their duties, or reveal such information to anyone not having proper
               authorization.
       L.   Discrimination, Workplace Harassment, and Sexual Harassment
            1. Department of Corrections provides a work environment free from discrimination or
               workplace harassment based on or because of an employee’s protected class status.
            2. Department of Corrections provides a work environment free from sexual harassment.
            3. All Department of Corrections employees must conduct themselves in a professional
               manner at all times and are prohibited from engaging in any form of discrimination,
               workplace harassment, or sexual harassment.
       M. Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace
            The Department of Corrections maintains a drug-free and alcohol-free workplace in
            accordance with the department’s policies on Drug and Alcohol Testing of Employees (DOC
            Policy 20.5.18) and Drug-Free Workplace (DOC Policy 20.6.2), and applicable collective
            bargaining agreements.
       N. Smoke-Free and Tobacco-Free Workplace
            Employees shall not use tobacco or vaping products within department facilities designated
            as smoke-free or where such use has been prohibited (see DOC Policy 20.6.3 Smoke-Free
            Workplace).
       O. Unauthorized Use or Removal of Property
            1. Employees shall not use, remove, or borrow property from the department for anything
               other than official business.
            2. Employees shall avoid thoughtless or careless expenditure, use, consumption, or
               management of state resources.

                                              Page 5 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                        Policy 20.1.3
            3. Employees have the responsibility to report to management suspected fraud, waste,
               and abuse and Department of Corrections must take reasonable steps to see that the
               employee does not suffer retaliation for reporting violations as required in Oregon’s
               whistleblower statue ORS 659A.203.
       P.   Gambling
            Employees shall not engage in any form of gambling on duty.

IV.    IMPLEMENTATION

       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: __signature on file ______________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator



Approved: __signature on file_____________
Michael Reese, Director




                                                Page 6 of 6
Effective: 7/22/25                                                                      Policy 20.1.3
