                                  DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                               Offender Management and Rehabilitation
 Title:              Correctional Case Management               DOC Policy: 90.1.3
 Effective:          6/15/11                                    Supersedes: N/A
 Applicability:      All functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
        Correctional Case Management – Div 207
        Prison Term Modification – Div 97
 Attachments:
       Attachment A – Case Planning
       Attachment B – Suggested Services by Levels of Supervision
       Attachment C – Mental Health
       Attachment D – Multidisciplinary Team Meetings
          Attachment E – Earned Time Process

I.    PURPOSE
      The purpose of this policy is to establish Correctional Case Management as a continuation of the
      Oregon Accountability Model and to define effective case management practices in accordance
      with the rule on Correctional Case Management (OAR 291-207). This policy provides direction
      to all Department of Corrections employees, volunteers, and contractors in the delivery of effective
      and efficient case management practices.
II.   DEFINITIONS
      A. Automated Criminal Risk Score (ACRS): A statistical calculation developed by the ODOC
         Research Section to predict an offender’s risk of re-offending within three years of release.
      B. Case Management: A proactive, collaborative, multi-disciplinary process which assesses,
         plans, implements, coordinates, monitors and evaluates options and services to meet an
         individual’s needs or risks, as well as responsivity factors. Case Management is the process
         which links all the elements involved in an inmate’s management. The process of Case
         Management unifies procedures and personnel to balance departmental resources and an
         inmate’s needs throughout his/her term of incarceration and community supervision.
      C. Case Plan: A dynamic document created by Department of Corrections counselors
         collaboratively with an inmate that specifically identifies the inmate’s evidenced based
         assessed risk and needs, accompanied by risk reduction strategies and plans of action, with
         timelines.
      D. CIS Corrections Information System (CIS): A computer system dedicated to tracking
         information critical to the management of inmates/offenders under the custody and/or
         supervision of the Oregon Department of Corrections.
      E. Criminogenic Risk Factors: Factors that contribute to an inmate’s risk for future criminal
         behavior.
      F. Comprehensive Adult Student Assessment System (CASAS): A self-administered
         assessment used to determine inmates’ reading and math abilities.

Effective: 6/15/11                          Page 1 of 9                                     Policy 90.1.3
       G. Custody Classification: Initial classification upon admission to the Oregon Department of
          Corrections, classification review or classification overrides used to determine an inmate’s
          custody classification level.
       H. Earned Time Credit: Sentence reduction credits (days), up to 30 percent of the sentence
          imposed, that can be earned by an inmate sentenced under sentencing guidelines, pursuant
          to ORS 421.121, and the rule on Prison Term Modification (OAR 291-097)
       I.   Evidence-Based Practices: The body of research and clinical knowledge that describes
            correctional assessment, programming and supervision strategies that lead to improved
            correctional outcomes such as the rehabilitation of inmates and increased public safety. Such
            principles not only meet the public’s expectations for economical business strategies,
            efficiency and effectiveness but also reflect fairness and accountability.
       J. Inmate: Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections who is not on
          parole, probation or post-prison supervision status.
       K. Level of Service Case Management Inventory (LS/CMI): An assessment used to determine
          an inmate’s criminogenic risk factors.
       L. Multi-disciplinary Team (MDT): Stakeholders from different divisions within a functional unit
          who come together to provide comprehensive assessment, consultation and perspectives
          concerning an inmates’ incarceration and successful reentry to the community.
       M. Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI): A self administered psychological assessment.
       N. Reentry: The activities and programming conducted to prepare inmates to return safely to the
          community and to live as law abiding citizens. Reentry includes the release process, the flow
          of inmates back into communities and how they are supervised after release, the effects on
          public safety as a result, how the Department of Corrections manages releases, and what
          communities can do to absorb and reintegrate returning offenders.
       O. SMI: Seriously Mentally Ill.
       P. Static-99: A ten item actuarial assessment instrument for use with adult sexual offenders who
          are at least 18 year of age at time of release to the community.
       Q. Supervision Levels for Case Management (Limited, Intermediate, and Intensive): The relative
          frequency and intensity of interventions, contact, and available programs/services accessible
          to inmates needed to ensure productive incarceration and successful reentry.
       R. Texas Christian University Drug Screening (TCUDS): A drug and alcohol assessment used to
          determine level of dependency.
       S. University of Rhode Island Change Assessment (URICA): A self administered questionnaire
          used to measure responsivity to change.
       T. Victimization/Aggression Assessment: An assessment used to determine an inmate’s level of
          vulnerability or potential for aggressive behavior while incarcerated.

III.   POLICY
       A. Correctional Case Management
            1. All business decisions and policy changes potentially impacting correctional case
               management operations or interacting with correctional case management policy will be
               routed through the Case Management Office to ensure compliance with the principles of
               case management.

            2. Case management is the shared responsibility of all Department of Corrections
               employees, contractors, and volunteers. Effective case management ensures that the
               inmate’s correctional case plan is developed, regularly reviewed, and revised when

Effective: 6/15/11                           Page 2 of 9                                   Policy 90.1.3
             appropriate; that the inmate receives adequate services; and that his/her progress is being
             measured and recorded in the case record regardless of supervision level.

         3. Case management in the department is comprised of the following principles:
             a. All correctional staff has a valuable role in the delivery of multidisciplinary services in
                prisons. Despite differences in their training, culture, and job specific mission, they all
                have some common goals. When all correctional staff share appropriate information
                and assist in the case planning of inmates, both the quality of change and the safety
                of the correctional environment improve. Mutual respect, proper orientation and
                training, and ongoing communication and cooperation provide the foundation of
                correctional case management;
             b. Intake determines the most appropriate placement for all new arrivals into the
                Department of Corrections based on safety and security factors, length of sentence,
                and inmate custody classification. Case management begins when the inmate is
                assessed for his/her individual needs during the Intake process;
             c. Case planning begins when the inmate is transferred to his or her institution and
                primary counselor;
             d. Each inmate is treated as an individual rather than as part of a group;
             e. Case management programs and interventions are structured around individual
                risk/needs;
             f.   Programs and interventions contain clear, achievable goals;
             g. Goal achievement is rewarded by the system;
             h. Positive behaviors and personal accountability are expected in order to achieve goals;
             i.   Each inmate has the ability to provide input into his/her case plan;
             j.   Quality pro-social interactions between staff and inmates is the expectation of the
                  Oregon Accountability Model and is the best evidence- based practice that can be
                  offered consistently throughout the Department of Corrections;
             k. Preparing an inmate to re-enter the community is a priority;
             l.   Inmates receive support in various ways, including education, employment skills,
                  program and treatment services;
             m. There is an emphasis on being proactive rather than waiting for problems to develop;
             n. Accurate record keeping for monitoring progress is an ongoing part of the case
                management process;
             o. Feedback to the inmate about case planning and progress is a vital and ongoing part
                of the case management process; and
             p. Quality assurance measures are utilized to ensure consistency and reliability of case
                management techniques, as well as a consistent statewide case management
                practice.
         4. Case Planning (Attachment A)
             a. The individualized case plan identifies interventions and supervision strategies, facility
                work assignments, programming, treatment, and educational/vocational activities that
                are appropriate to the inmate’s strengths and needs. The plan will promote positive
                change and assist in developing pro-social behaviors to facilitate prison adjustment
                and successful reentry.


Effective: 6/15/11                          Page 3 of 9                                     Policy 90.1.3
             b. Institution counselors are required to maintain current case plans for each inmate on
                their caseload.
                  (1) The primary purpose of a case plan is to develop guidelines (see attachment A)
                      that document inmate needs and corresponding resources to address those
                      needs, along with timelines including forecasting custody classification changes
                      and consequent facility transfers for provision of interventions and cell/bunk
                      management.
                  (2) The case plan will also document responsibility taken by the inmate when
                      developing skills needed to make a successful reentry.
             c. The case plan process is intended to be collaborative in nature.
                  (1) All stakeholder concerns about an inmate must be routed through the counselor
                      to ensure appropriate communication, case plan compliance, and documentation.
                  (2) It is expected that special needs inmates, including Seriously Mentally Ill inmates
                      and other special populations, require a high level of collaboration between
                      counselors and other case managers working with that inmate, as well as with
                      security and other institution staff.
             d. Each inmate will have only one integrated case plan. The automated case plan in the
                Case Management Module must be used. Any other plans for circumstances such as
                behavior/risk plans, Behavioral Health Services plans, security threat management
                plans, etc., are required to be integrated into the overall case plan.
             e. Circumstances should be assessed to determine when inmates may need to be
                supervised differently on a temporary basis. This does not always mean overriding an
                inmate to a higher supervision level. Temporary interventions may be suitable to re-
                focus the inmate and allow for return to previously established supervision practices.
             f.   Intensive and intermediate supervision level inmates that are determined to likely
                  remain stable for a long period of their incarceration should be considered for transfer
                  to a lower supervision caseload. Treatment and programming resources should be
                  limited to those inmates preparing for release or that have an immediate need for
                  services due to DOC directive, state or federal regulation, behavior, mental health, or
                  physical health issues.
             g. Forecasting of inmate movement should occur. Inmates will be proactively placed on
                transfer lists by institution counselors as a result of custody classification and/or case
                planning goals. Forecasting is especially important for mentally ill inmates and inmates
                identified for alcohol and drug treatment.
             h. Program readiness planning for all inmates assessed as needing alcohol and drug
                treatment and who meet the eligibility criteria should begin when the inmate’s custody
                classification becomes level 1 or 2.
                  (1) The completion of preparation programming as determined by the case plan
                      (Pathfinders, Parenting, Education, etc.) should be forecasted to ensure timely
                      transfer to the treatment facility.
                  (2) Preparation programming may also include self help materials and less formal
                      institution-specific group activities recommended by the counselor.
             i.   Reentry is part of the case planning process. It begins at the point of admittance to a
                  prison and extends beyond release. Reentry is a philosophy and a process, rather than
                  a specific program.




Effective: 6/15/11                          Page 4 of 9                                     Policy 90.1.3
         5. Automated Criminal Risk Score (ACRS)
             a. Case management services are structured around individual risk and needs.
                  (1) ACRS determines the risk of future criminal behavior for all inmates housed in
                      DOC institutions and is the primary determinant in level of services an inmate will
                      receive. Studies have shown that actuarial risk assessment tools like the ACRS
                      are more accurate at predicting risk to re-offend than professional judgment alone.
                      Studies also show that the prediction of risk is most accurate when the basis is an
                      actuarial tool used along with professional judgment.
                  (2) Inmates are assigned a level of criminal risk based upon several factors which are
                      predominately static in nature.
                       •   Age
                       •   Number of prior incarcerations
                       •   Sentence length
                       •   Earned time
                       •   Previous revocation
                       •   Prior theft conviction
                       •   Type of crime
             b. ACRS has a high predictive validity when the information used in the calculation is
                accurate. In some cases, the predictive validity of the assessment is lessened by the
                absence of information such as out-of-state records and the lack of inclusion of certain
                offenses (DUII, domestic assault, etc.).
             c.    To ensure accurate ACRS calculations when convictions not captured in CIS are
                  discovered, intake and/or institutions counselors will use the manual ACRS calculator
                  to determine the correct score. Recalculated scores should be documented in CIS and
                  case plan.
         6. Supervision Levels (Attachment B)
             a. Supervision levels are used to determine the relative frequency and intensity of
                interventions, contact, and available services (see attachment B) needed to ensure
                productive incarceration and successful reentry.
             b. The initial determination for each inmate’s supervision level will be by Automated
                Criminal Risk Score (ACRS). When necessary, other assessments beyond or in
                conjunction with ACRS should be considered when determining supervision levels:
                       •   Criminal risk factors as determined by an LS/CMI assessment;
                       •   PMAS/associations;
                       •   TCUDS;
                       •   Custody Classification;
                       •   Mental health; and
                       •   Vulnerability/aggression.
                       •   URICA
         7. Supervision level overrides
             a. The supervision level override feature provides for either increases or decreases in the
                level of supervision. The supervision level override is intended to address risk factors
                that are not included as part of the ACRS scoring or other department sanctioned
                assessments. These factors are based upon:
                  (1) Inmate-specific issues that, in the professional judgment of the institution
                      counselor, appear to impact the risk the inmate poses to him/herself, the
                      institution, other inmates, staff and/or successful reentry to the community;

Effective: 6/15/11                          Page 5 of 9                                    Policy 90.1.3
                 (2) Crime-specific risk issues, especially those involving, multiple DUII and domestic
                     violence incidents.
                     a) Felony DUII inmates are a significant risk to the community and are considered
                        statistically at high risk to recidivate.
                     b) Domestic violence offenders with a history of multiple offenses pose a
                        significant risk to recidivate.
                 (3) Policy directives of the department regarding delivery of correctional services.
             b. All supervision level overrides must be discussed at the Multidisciplinary Team
                meeting, authorized by the Assistant Superintendent of Correctional Rehabilitation or
                Correctional Rehabilitation Manager, and documented in the case plan. All overrides
                will be monitored at a supervision or peer supervision level as determined by each
                institution for accuracy, consistency and appropriateness. Overrides must be based on
                one or more of the following factors:
                      •   Assaultive behavior;
                      •   Sex offender;
                      •   Offender risk and needs (vulnerability, mental health concerns, Prison
                          Management Alert System, suicide prevention, addictions, etc.);
                      •   Extreme criminal record;
                      •   Major non-compliance;
                      •   Institution counselor discretion;
                      •   LS/CMI assessment;
                      •   Conformance to case plan;
                      •   Length of prison term;
                      •   ACRS recalculation;
                      •   Custody classification.
             c. Supervision level overrides shall remain in effect until a change in circumstances
                warrants a reassessment and subsequent adjustment.
         8. Inmates with a Serious Mental Illness (SMI)
             a. Case management of Seriously Mentally Ill inmates is based upon the following:
                 (1) All inmates meeting the criteria for an MH-3 code (Attachment C) are
                     therapeutically treated and managed as Seriously Mentally Ill (SMI). Active case
                     management and effective case planning is critical.
                 (2) The inmate is actively suicidal or has a recent, serious suicide attempt (within
                     three years).
                 (3) Holding offenders accountable is the mission of ODOC and an important principle
                     of managing seriously mentally ill inmates. Interventions and sanctions for
                     seriously mentally ill inmates may differ from typical sanctions and interventions,
                     but are still an effective tool. Professional communication and planning among
                     staff is essential to ensure effective interventions.
                 (4) All DOC staff, contractors, and volunteers play an essential role in the supervision
                     of seriously mentally ill inmates.
                     a) Managing this population is built upon supervising, monitoring, and reporting
                        inmate behaviors, as well as modeling appropriate interactions and
                        accountability.




Effective: 6/15/11                         Page 6 of 9                                     Policy 90.1.3
                      b) Maintaining professionalism and not taking inmate actions personally,
                         understanding that behaviors may be influenced by mental health symptoms,
                         is a core principle for supervision of seriously mentally ill inmates.
         9. Multidisciplinary Team (Attachment D)
             a. All institutions are required to hold regularly scheduled formal Multidisciplinary Team
                meetings (See attachment D). Informal and ad hoc multidisciplinary discussions will
                also occur, as needed.
                  (1) Though institution counselors are the core resource for inmate case management
                      and planning, the Multidisciplinary Team approach to problem solving will used.
                  (2) The institution counselor will present difficult and persistent problems or issues
                      which impact multiple correctional disciplines for discussion and decisions.
             b. Multidisciplinary Team meetings should be specific in nature.
                  (1) The reason an inmate is placed on the agenda will be clearly communicated prior
                      to the meeting. Focus should be on the assessed risk and/or needs of the inmate
                      being discussed.
                  (2) The multidisciplinary team meeting must not be used primarily to discuss routine
                      management issues that do not require the resources of the full multidisciplinary
                      team.
             c. The Multidisciplinary Team consists of the institution counselor of the inmate being
                discussed, the Assistant Superintendent of Correctional Rehabilitation, and/or
                Correctional Rehabilitation Services Manager, as well as all other stakeholders having
                a working knowledge of the inmate issue being addressed. This ensures a well
                rounded, practical, and effective resolution.
             d. If a major contributor cannot attend a meeting, that person shall provide written
                documentation to the team regarding progress, concern, possible solutions,
                interventions, or case plan alteration recommendations.
             e. Agendas and minutes of formal meetings will be made available by posting or routing
                to all staff.
                  (1) Action items and noteworthy outcomes of informal or ad hoc multidisciplinary team
                      meetings will be communicated with appropriate stakeholders.
                  (2) Decisions must be reviewed with the affected inmate either during the meeting
                      process or individually with the institution counselor. In some cases, written
                      feedback may be provided to the inmate.
             f.   The best interest of the inmate will be used in determining steps to promote long term
                  change of behavior intended to reduce an inmate’s potential for dangerous or
                  disruptive prison activities or potential return to prison once released.
         10. Principles of Application of Earned Time (Attachment E)
             a. Earned time is applied by the Offender Information and Sentence Computation unit in
                accordance with the rule on Prison Term Modification (OAR 291-097), using
                feedback provided by the institution counselor regarding compliance with the program
                expectations of the inmate’s case plan.
             b. The institution counselor and/or Multidisciplinary Team will review all instances where
                the inmate has received a program “Remove for Review” code to determine whether
                the inmate is in compliance with his or her case plan for the purpose of earned time
                calculation. See the earned time process (Attachment E).
             c. Only mandatory and required programs will be considered in determining case plan

Effective: 6/15/11                         Page 7 of 9                                    Policy 90.1.3
                  program compliance for the purposes of earned time, although all program
                  expectations will be documented in the case plan. Mandatory and required programs
                  will only be considered for earned time when officially offered to the inmate. The date
                  the program is offered to the inmate will be documented.
                  (1) Mandatory programs are defined by statute, regardless of caseload supervision
                      level:
                       •   ABE/GED/ESL education programs; and
                       •   Work assignments.
                  (2) Required programs are those programs documented on case plans as required
                      to address the inmate’s individual risks and needs. Required programs are not
                      necessarily mandatory programs as defined in statute.
             d. The institution counselor and/or institution multidisciplinary team is responsible to
                review the issues surrounding program or work review codes and determine the
                appropriate exit code and consequent intervention that corresponds to the level of
                program non-compliance.
                  (1) The institution counselor and/or multidisciplinary team may decide that in the best
                      interest of the inmate, program failure is not warranted and address the incident
                      using lesser interventions.
                  (2) Professional judgment and best interest of the inmate should be used when
                      making a decision.
             e. If it is determined that the inmate is not compliant with case plan expectations in regard
                to program but earned time credits should not be effected, other interventions that
                result in a reduction of Performance Recognition Awards and non-cash incentive levels
                can be used.
             f.   If the determination is made that earned time will not be granted for the review period
                  due to program noncompliance, the original “Remove for Review” code will be replaced
                  with the “Failed Oregon Corrections Plan” (FOCP) code.
                  Institutional conduct compliance is determined accordance with the rule on Prison
                  Term Modification (OAR 291-097),
             g. All fail code entries will be documented in the case plan. FOCP codes will be
                accompanied with a reason code that identifies circumstances of the fail.
             h. Inmate progress reports for Oregon Youth Authority, Interstate Compact, and ghost
                inmates will be reviewed for case plan and conduct compliance by the assigned
                counselor when received.
             i.   All fail code entries will be monitored at a supervision or peer supervision level as
                  determined by each institution for accuracy, consistency and timeliness of code
                  entries.
     B. Quality Assurance
         1. Each institution is responsible for quality assurance measures within their unit.
         2. Case plans will be reviewed a minimum of every six months for intermediate and intensive
            supervision level cases. Cases that are at the limited level need to be reviewed only as
            circumstances warrant.
         3. Internal quality assurance measures, such as peer review and supervisory audits, will be
            used to maximize consistency and reliability of case management tasks. These reviews
            will be done on a regularly scheduled basis as determined by the functional unit, and may
            be done in conjunction with preparation for institution security audits. Internal quality
            assurance may include:

Effective: 6/15/11                          Page 8 of 9                                     Policy 90.1.3
             a.      Spot checks of assessments including LS/CMI, Static-99;
             b.      Review of case plan development and maintenance;
             c.      Observation, review and feedback of LS/CMI interviews or Motivational Interviews;
             d.      Proper use of level of supervision overrides;
             e.      Accurate and appropriate case documentation;
             f.      Consistency of Earned Time application and proper use of Program Exit and Review
                     codes; and
             g.      Adherence to case management policy.
         4. External quality assurance measures, including peer site review and formal audits, will be
            used to ensure a statewide case management practice.
      C. Retention Schedule
         Hard copy and electronic documentation concerning the case management of inmates should
         be kept in accordance with the authorized Department of Corrections retention schedule.
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION
      This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: _________________________________
Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ________________________________
Mitch Morrow, Deputy Director




Effective: 6/15/11                            Page 9 of 9                                  Policy 90.1.3
                                                                                   Attachment A
                                       Case Planning

1. Components of each case plan will contain or identify:

       a. Prioritized goals based on assessments such as LS/CMI, TCUDS, CASAS, PAI,
          URICA, Victimization/Aggression Assessment, mental health status or other
          instruments assessing need or risk to recidivate:
       b. Desired outcomes for each goal;
       c. Action steps or tasks linking the inmate to the appropriate services;
          1) Action steps are time sensitive, measurable, achievable, and specific;
          2) Action steps should not be identified as a range, e.g. 30-60 minutes/days or as an
              unspecified period of time, e.g. as needed, if appropriate;
          3) Who is to do what in order to accomplish the action steps/tasks; and
          4) Prioritized completion dates.

2. Institution counselors will review the case plan with the inmate as necessary and
   modifications will be made as indicated by the inmate’s behavior, compliance with the plan,
   and responsivity to change.

   a. Progress should be outcome oriented, measurable, and recorded in the case plan.
   b. When goals and action steps are completed, they will be replaced by the next prioritized
      risk/needs areas identified.

3. The case plan should follow the inmate upon transfer to a different institution or reentry to
   the community.

4. Reentry and release planning is part of the case planning process.

   a. Case planning should include release preparation, including participation in appropriate
      education and reentry programming. Reentry planning should address community
      responsibilities, supervision responsibilities, family support, employment readiness and
      barriers to successful reentry. Strategies should be developed to address those barriers.
   b. Efforts should be made to secure identification such as birth certificates, social security
      cards, and DMV issued photo identification cards for all inmates prior to release.
   c. Reach-in contacts in person or by telephone between community corrections officers and
      inmates should occur when necessary.
                                                                                     Attachment B

                         Suggested Services by Levels of Supervision

At all levels of supervision, services noted below should be seen as possible interventions and case
management practices. Institution counselors will use professional judgment and seek feedback
from other stakeholders as necessary in determining appropriate services for an individual inmate.
Case plans are required for all inmates regardless of level of supervision. Other listed services for
each level of supervision should be seen as guidelines, not as an all inclusive list. Only those
services appropriate for the individual inmate based on his/her needs should be chosen.

Limited supervision – Automated Criminal Risk Score .00 - .14 or supervision level override
Examples of possible services include:
       1) Reactive interaction between counselor and inmate;
       2) Emergency interventions;
       3) Inmate reporting by written communication ;
       4) Reports and assessments;
       5) Self-help exercises issued by counselor or other staff;
       6) Documentation.

Intermediate supervision – Automated Criminal Risk Score .15 - .49 or supervision level
override
Examples of possible services include but are not limited to:
       1) Reports and assessments;
       2) Routine reporting;
       3) Periodic face-to-face contact with counselor while inmate is at work or participating in
          treatment and/or programs, and leisure activities;
       4) Inmate contact logs (journal);
       5) Mandatory treatment and/or required program participation;
       6) Long and short term goal setting;
       7) Interventions;
       8) Issued self-help exercises;
       9) Documentation.

Intensive supervision – Automated Criminal Risk Score .50 and above or supervision level
override
Examples of possible services include but are not limited to:
       1) Reports and assessments;
       2) Line of site bunk or cell assignment;
       3) Daily reporting;
       4) Adjunct monitoring by housing unit officers, work crew supervisors, and
           program/treatment staff;
       5) Regular face-to-face contact with counselor while inmate is at work or participating in
           treatment and/or programs, and leisure activities;
       6) Inmate contact logs (journal);
       7) Mandatory treatment and/or required program participation;
       8) Long and short term goal setting;
       9) Interventions;
       10) Issued self-help exercises;
       11) Intensive Management Unit or Mental Health Infirmary placement;
       12) Documentation.
                                                                                   Attachment C
                                         Mental Health

1. Depending on the severity of the diagnosis, inmates are assigned the following mental health
   code.
                                        1. MH-0           Less severe
                                        2. MH-1
                                        3. MH-R
                                        4. MH-2
                                        5. MH-3           Most severe

2. Inmates meeting the diagnostic criteria for an MH-3 code are therapeutically treated and
   managed as seriously mentally ill (SMI). Active case management and effective case planning
   for this segment of the DOC population is critical.


                                Mental Health Code Definitions

   a. MH-0: Assigned to an inmate who has been assessed by a BHS treatment provider and
      does not meet the criteria for a diagnosis that requires mental health services.

   b. MH-1: Assigned to an inmate who has been assessed by a BHS treatment provider and,
      based on diagnosis with mild acuity (assessment of functioning), does not meet the criteria
      for mental health services.

   c. MH-R: Assigned to an inmate who has been assessed by a BHS treatment provider and
      has been diagnosed with a condition that either needs no active therapeutic intervention or
      symptoms can be controlled through medication.

   d. MH-2: Assigned to an inmate who has been assessed by a BHS treatment provider and
      has been diagnosed with one or more of the following conditions.

              1) Anorexia
              2) Bulimia
              3) Eating Disorder (not otherwise specified)
              4) Borderline Personality Disorder
              5) Pervasive Developmental Disorders (autism spectrum disorders (ASD)
              6) Major Depressive Disorder, single episode
              7) Schizotypal Personality Disorder
              8) Tourette’s
              9) Cyclothymia
              10) Agoraphobia
              11) Panic Disorder
              12) Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
              13) Depression (not otherwise specified)
              14) Mood Disorder (not otherwise specified)
              15) Dysthymic Disorder
              16) Paranoid Personality Disorder
              17) Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
              18) Brief Psychotic Disorder
              19) General anxiety Disorder
                                                                     Attachment C – Page 2

e. MH-3: Assigned to an inmate who has been assessed by a BHS treatment provider and
   has been diagnosed with one or more of the following conditions.

          1)   Psychotic Disorder (not otherwise specified)
          2)   Schizophrenia (all sub-types)
          3)   Bipolar Disorder I and II (unregulated/with active symptoms)
          4)   Major Depressive Disorder, recurrent
          5)   Schizophreniform Disorder
          6)   Dementia
          7)   Delusional Disorder Schizoaffective Disorder
          8)   Substance-induced Psychotic Disorder (excluding intoxication and withdrawal)
          9)   Brief Psychotic Disorder
                                                                                  Attachment D

                                Multidisciplinary Team Meetings

1. All institutions are required to hold regularly scheduled formal multidisciplinary team meetings.
   Informal and ad hoc multidisciplinary discussions will also occur to make determinations that
   should not wait until a regularly scheduled meeting occurs, or to address issues that do not
   require the full multidisciplinary team. Though institution counselors are the core resource for
   inmate case management and planning, a multidisciplinary team approach to problem solving
   will be used. The institution counselor will present difficult and persistent problems or issues
   which impact multiple correctional disciplines for discussion and decisions.

2. All multidisciplinary meeting decisions, regardless of meeting format, will be documented in the
   case plan.

3. Attendees or stakeholders for multidisciplinary teams include:

       a.   Assistant Superintendent of Correctional Rehabilitation;
       b.   Correctional Rehabilitation Manager;
       c.   Institution Counselor;
       d.   Behavioral Health Services representative
       e.   Medical representative;
       f.   Treatment/program provider;
       g.   Education instructor;
       h.   Release Counselor;
       i.   Transition Coordinator;
       j.   Oregon Corrections Enterprises representative;
       k.   Work crew supervisor; and
       l.   Security, including Security Threat Management representative.

4. Multidisciplinary reviews will generally involve non-routine concerns which take into account the
   best interest of the inmate. Examples of multidisciplinary review topics include, but are not
   limited to:

       a. Case plan development;
       b. Case plan modification due to change in circumstances;
       c. Continued or escalating prison behavior issues;
       d. Development of timelines and preparation strategies for entering program or treatment;
       e. Level of supervision overrides or short term increases in supervision based on
          circumstance;
       f. Classification overrides;
       g. Suicide prevention;
       h. Mental health treatment or program delivery strategies;
       i. Health issues and program/treatment possibilities;
       j. Intervention and risk reduction strategies and progress;
       k. Education, certification, vocational strategies and progress;
       l. Program exit/reason codes/earned time;
       m. Significant work assignment and eligibility issues;
       n. Transfer;
       o. Special housing placement/release recommendations; and
       p. Specific concerns related to release from prison and community reentry.
                                                                                   Attachment E

                                       Earned Time Process

1.  At the time of an inmate’s earned time review, an Offender Information and Sentence
   Computation Prison Term Analyst will review an electronically generated list for Failed Oregon
   Corrections Plan code and level 1 or 2 major rule violations in order to determine program and
   conduct compliance.
2. Although all programming will be documented in the case plan, only mandatory and required
   programs will be considered in determining case plan program compliance for the purposes of
   earned time. Mandatory and required programs will only be considered for earned time when
   officially offered to the inmate. The date the program is offered to the inmate will be documented.

       a. Inmates whose behavior leads to Level 1 or 2 misconduct and are unavailable to be
          offered and placed into a mandatory or required program as defined by this policy due
          to special housing assignment will be considered noncompliant in determining case
          plan program compliance for that review period
       b. Inmates who are identified for entry into a program and whose custody level increases
          as a result of a level 3 or 4 misconduct may receive a custody override in order to
          participate in the program.

3. Inmates who initially refused placement in a mandatory or required program, or who were
   unavailable for placement in a mandatory or required program, may be offered that program or
   another program again in subsequent review periods if time remaining on sentence allows. This
   does not mean earned time not granted as a result of initial refusal will be reinstated.
4. In order to determine case plan compliance for the purposes of earned time, counselors will
   receive automatic notification when an inmate has received a Remove for Review code on their
   work or program assignment.
5. Professional judgment and best interest of the inmate should be used when making a decision.
6. The institution counselor and/or institution multi-disciplinary team will be responsible to review
   the issues surrounding the Remove for Review code and determine the appropriate exit code
   and consequent intervention that corresponds to the level of program non-compliance. Upon
   review of circumstances, the institution counselor and/or multidisciplinary team may decide that
   in the best interest of the inmate, program failure is not warranted and choose to address the
   incident using lesser interventions.
7. If program/case plan non-compliance is determined but earned time should not be affected,
   appropriate alternative fail codes may be used as a program intervention which will result in a
   reduction of performance recognition awards and non-cash incentive levels.
8. If program/case plan non-compliance is determined and earned time will not be granted for the
   review period, the original Remove for Review code will be replaced with FOCP (Failed Oregon
   Corrections Plan – Case Plan).

       a. FOCP program/case plan non-compliance is defined as:
              (1) Level 1 or 2 major misconduct violation as defined in the rule on Prohibited
                  Inmate Conduct (OAR 291-105) that occurred during or as a result of the
                  program/work assignment;
              (2) Refusal to participate in a mandated or required program/work assignment;
                  and
              (3) Continued disruptive behavior after enrollment and the inmate is removed from
                  the program.

       b. All fail code entries will be monitored at a supervision or peer supervision level as
          determined by each institution for accuracy, consistency and timeliness of code entries.


                                                                         Attachment E – Page 2
c. All fail code entries will be documented in the case plan. FOCP codes will be
   accompanied with a reason code that identifies circumstances of the fail.

d. Upon review and as appropriate, alternative interventions may be considered in-lieu of
   daily failures documented on form CD 188b.

e. Mandatory programs are definite by statute and are regardless of caseload supervision
   level:
           1) ABE/GED/ESL education programs; and
           2) Work assignments.

f.   Required programs are based upon identified criminogenic LS/CMI risk factors, or DOC
     sanctioned assessments such as TCUDS for intermediate and intensive supervision
     levels:

             1) Alcohol and Drug Treatment for inmates with Sub 3 & 4 scores or TCUDS
                score 3+
             2) Cognitive Programs

g. Alternative Incarceration Program:

             1) Alternative Incarceration Program (AIP) compliance will be determined in
                accordance with the rule on Prison Term Modification.
