                                     DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                             Institutions


 Title:               Post Orders                                          DOC Policy: 40.1.7

 Effective:           2/23/2018                                            Supersedes: 12/1/13

 Applicability:       Institutions
 Directives Cross-Reference: Policy: 10.3.1: Emergency Management
 Attachment: CD 1793 Post Order Notes
             Post Order Signature Log

I.        PURPOSE

          To identify and establish guidelines to be used in the development, revision, implementation and
          monitoring of security post orders.

II.       DEFINITIONS

          A.     Post: Any employee position in the security section of a functional unit.

          B.     Post Order: A directive established by the functional unit manager for each security post
                 during routine operation.

          C.     Emergency Post Order: A directive or guide established by the Department of
                 Corrections Office of Emergency Management for each emergency position described
                 in the functional unit’s emergency command structure.

III.      POLICY

          Each Department of Corrections facility shall have a post order or emergency post order for
          each post in the facility. Post orders shall be uniform in appearance; provide necessary
          information on activities, frequencies, and duties associated with the post; provide guidelines for
          development and revision; and provide guidelines for the monitoring of staff compliance and
          familiarity.

          A.     Format

                 All post orders shall conform to the following format:

                 1.      The first page shall contain the following information:

                         a.      Post order title and number;



                         b.      Supersede date;

                         c.      Effective date;

Effective 02/23/18                            Page 1 of 5                                      Policy 40.1.7
                     d.     Assistant Superintendent of Security or Security manager’s signature;
                            and

                     e.     Functional unit manager’s signature.

              2.     The Activities, Frequencies and Duties section of the post order will provide
                     instructions (in a standard outline form) on topics which affect the security and/or
                     function of the post. Each post order will contain the subject matter for each area
                     listed below, in the order listed, and as applicable to the post.

                     a.     Zone of control: Area of assigned responsibility.

                     b.     Key control: Instructions governing the issue, exchange, use and return
                            or keys, key chits and lock control utilized in the zone of control;
                            designation of ranking security officer responsibility for key control; and
                            location of emergency keys.

                     c.     Communications: Instructions governing access and use of telephones,
                            radios, intercoms, whistles, bull horns, loudspeakers, sirens, emergency
                            numbers, primary and secondary methods of communications and
                            notifications to supervisor and others, for further instructions.

                     d.     Physical force: Instructions governing the use of physical force, issue and
                            use of firearms, chemical agents and other security equipment.

                     e.     Traffic control: Instructions governing the monitoring and/or controlling of
                            inmate movement (pass system, call-out, line movement, etc.), control of
                            entrance/exit points and/or access to the zone of control.

                     f.     Count procedure: Instructions governing counting of inmates within the
                            zone of control, on a routine and emergency basis.

                     g.     Escort procedure: Instructions governing escorting of inmates, vehicles
                            and visitors, within the zone of control.

                     h.     Inventory control: Instructions governing the distribution and use of
                            equipment and supplies within the zone of control; including property
                            control, requisition, storage and issuance.

                     i.     Relief procedure: Instructions for assuming an unoccupied post or
                            replacing an employee on post, including debriefing of pertinent
                            information from previous shifts.

                     j.     Incident reporting: Instructions for notifying supervisor of unusual
                            incidents, inmate misconduct and physical plant needs.

                     k.     Record keeping: Instructions to document and/or track inmate property,
                            searches, security checks, safety and sanitation checks and the use of
                            specific forms, logs and records.


Effective 02/23/18                        Page 2 of 5                                     Policy 40.1.7
                     l.      Schedule activities: Instructions governing activities to be accomplished
                             during the shift.

                     m.      Emergency procedures: Instructions governing the immediate actions to
                             be taken in the event of an emergency; including obtaining medical
                             intervention, isolating area(s) during an emergency, locating and
                             identifying personnel, alerting and redirecting inmates; visitors and non-
                             security employees out of the affected area, and crime scene
                             management. If any person is taken hostage, sound correctional practice
                             shall include the following:

                             (1)    Inmates will not be granted freedom from the confines of a
                                    correctional facility;

                             (2)    Immunity from prosecution or amnesty will not be granted;

                             (3)    Prosecution will be pursued vigorously in all cases;

                             (4)    Hostages will have no authority to give orders;

                             (5)    No demands of the hostage taker(s) will be honored;

                             (6)    Keys or weapons or their use will not be surrendered; and

                             (7)    Drug, liquor or transportation requests from inmates will not be
                                    considered.



              3.     A general post order may be written to contain information that is common to
                     all/most post orders.

                     a.      Exceptions to the general post order will be noted in the specific post’s
                             post order.

                     b.      The general post order will conform to the format of post orders stated in
                             this policy.

                     c.      The general post order will be given Post Order Title: General Post Order
                             and Number: 50.

              4.     Post orders to temporary posts, or instructions for special details (such as
                     hospital watches, suicide watches, and dry celling) shall be written or
                     incorporated into an existing post order(s), whichever is more appropriate.

              5.     Emergency post orders will exist and shall be in compliance with the Department
                     of Corrections Policy 10.3.1, Emergency Management.

       B.     Availability

              1.     There will be a post order for each post.

Effective 02/23/18                       Page 3 of 5                                       Policy 40.1.7
              2.     There will be a current and complete copy of the post order available for
                     employees assigned to the post.

              3.     The functional unit manager will maintain a list of the following:

                     a.     The location of post order manuals available for review.

                     b.     The locations of post order copies available for personal use and
                            retention.

              4.     The original post order will be archived for a minimum of three years.

       C.     Development, Revision and Monitoring

              1.     The functional unit manager will authorize new and revised post orders.

              2.     The assistant superintendent of security or security manager will:

                     a.     Develop and maintain a post order for each post.

                     b.     Have a 90-day post order review process in place for the annual review
                            and revision of all post orders.

                     c.     Forward the newly developed or revised post order draft to the functional
                            unit manager for signature.

                     d.     Assure each security employee (at least quarterly) is interviewed, tested
                            and/or drilled in order to demonstrate knowledge of his/her assigned post
                            order(s).

                     e.     Assure employee compliance with the post order.

              3.     Security employees assigned to a post will:

                     a.     Read the post order before assuming any newly assigned post.

                     b.     Read on a monthly basis the post order of his/her currently assigned post.

                     c.     Review with the immediate supervisor any questions and/or concerns
                            regarding the post order.

                     d.     Provide, as soon as possible, necessary verbal and written comments
                            about post orders to the immediate supervisor using Post Order Notes
                            CD1793 (Attachment 1).

                     e.     Sign and date Post Order Signature Log (Attachment 2), to document the
                            reading and understanding of the post order.

                     f.     Comply with the post order.


Effective 02/23/18                        Page 4 of 5                                     Policy 40.1.7
              4.      Post orders may not be changed by memo, hand written notations or
                      addendums/supplements.

              5.      The functional unit manager may assign post orders to be developed for other
                      sections of the facility. These post orders will conform to the standards set forth
                      in this policy.

IV.    IMPLEMENTATION

       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: _signature on file ________________
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator



Approved: __signature on file_______________
Brian Belleque, Deputy Director




Effective 02/23/18                        Page 5 of 5                                      Policy 40.1.7
