                                DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                  Human Resources Division

 Title:              Employee Wellness Policy                 DOC Policy: 20.6.18
 Effective:          8/28/18                                  Supersedes: 4/6/09
 Applicability: All employees
 Directives Cross-Reference: Oregon Executive Order 17-01; State Agency
 Employee Wellness ; DAS Policy 50-010-06 Employee Health & Wellness
 Attachments: None


I.   PURPOSE

     The purpose of wellness promotion is to improve the health and well-being of Oregon Department
     of Corrections (DOC) employees’ lives, by increased self-awareness, through health education
     and workplace health promotion activities that will support positive lifestyle changes. Supporting
     healthy lifestyles improves productivity and morale; reduces the number and severity of injuries
     and illnesses on and off the job; reduces the drivers of sick leave utilization; and, reduces
     insurance utilization and premiums.

     The establishment of a Wellness Advisory Council and work site wellness committees will assist
     with the DOC’s promotion of wellness.

II. DEFINITIONS

     A. Central Services: Department facilities located in the Salem area where functional units
        perform centralized functions. This includes, but is not limited to, the Dome building, Central
        Distribution Center, Central South (Human Resources), Office of Population Management,
        Health Services and Behavioral Health Services.

     B. Executive Team: The DOC executive leadership of the department that provides direction
        and oversight to department operations.

     C. 8 Dimensions of Wellness: refers to the 8 different dimensions of wellness which are
        Emotional, Spiritual, Intellectual, Physical, Environmental, Financial, Occupational and
        Social wellness.

III. POLICY

     A. Membership

          1. Wellness Advisory Council:

             a. The Wellness Advisory Council shall be established to advise and guide DOC
                Wellness Committees. The focus will be on employee whole health and the primary
                drivers of increased health care costs including tobacco use, poor nutrition, lack of
                physical activity and employee stress and depression.



Effective: 8/28/18                          Page 1 of 5                                Policy 20.6.18
           b. The Wellness Advisory Council shall be comprised of representatives from the
              following areas: AFSCME Security, AFSCME Security Plus, AOCE, multiple
              institutions and representation from each DOC divisions.

       2. Wellness Committees:

           a. Work sites shall establish a local wellness committee. Each wellness committee shall
              be responsible for promoting a healthy work site.

           b. Each wellness committee will appoint a chair person. The chair will be the liaison
              between the work site wellness committees and the Wellness Advisory Council. Any
              data and statistical information, and wellness related information will be
              communicated from the chair to the Advisory Council for proper reporting on the
              Governor’s Wellness Council Statewide Scorecard.

   B. Employee Compensation

       Employee representatives attending local wellness committee meetings or Wellness
       Advisory Council meetings shall be compensated by the employer at the regular hourly wage
       or according to the appropriate Collective Bargaining Agreement.

   C. Financial Responsibility

       1. DOC: The Department may authorize allocation of funds annually for wellness
          committees to purchase incentives related to wellness. Additionally, any money that DOC
          obtains specific to wellness initiative fundraising will be deposited in the appropriate cost
          centers and used for activities approved by the Wellness Advisory Council Chair or
          Designee.

       2. Work Sites: Individual work sites may collect funds in conjunction with their wellness
          committee. Work site wellness committees are akin to employee social clubs, and any
          money in a wellness committee bank account is not owned or managed by DOC. Any
          bank accounts set up to benefit the individual worksite must not have DOC affiliation. In
          the event that an individual wellness committee chooses to spend their own finances on
          an activity, they will do so out of their own bank accounts without using DOC funds. In
          the event that individual wellness committees choose to donate assets or funds to DOC,
          they can accomplish that through contacting the DOC Accounting Unit.

   D. Guidelines

       1. Under the guidance and administration of the Wellness Advisory Council, and in
          conjunction with the wellness committees, DOC will promote wellness by:

               •     Sharing responsibility between the Department and its employees
               •     Providing educational information with health promotion themes
               •     Encouraging locally–based activities where interest and resources exists
               •     Promoting employee awareness and utilization of existing benefits

       2. Not all resources and activities will be available at all work sites; however, every effort
          shall be made to provide the core components of wellness themes (nutrition, fitness,
          stress management and financial health) when available.

       3. Activities:


Effective: 8/28/18                          Page 2 of 5                               Policy 20.6.18
           a. Fitness activities such as walking or running at lunch, breaks, and before or after
              work, are encouraged.

           b. Wellness committees may also host fitness classes, such as yoga, aerobics, or
              stretching.

           c. Wellness activities that require the use of a conference room must be approved
              through standard processes. Business meetings will take priority when there are
              scheduling conflicts.

           d. Wellness activities must not interfere with normal operations. Activities will invite
              participation on a voluntary basis; and they must not create safety risks for
              participants or others.

           e. When planning wellness activities consideration should be given to all 8 dimensions
              of wellness.

       4. Wellness committees have a very important role in disseminating health and wellness
          materials to DOC employees. Every effort should be made to include health and wellness
          topics in meetings, distribute the materials and information to employees, and look for
          opportunities locally to participate in wellness related activities. Wellness promotion
          program topics may include, but are not limited to:

               •     Fitness
               •     Nutrition
               •     Financial health
               •     Stress Management
               •     Injury Prevention
               •     Tobacco Cessation
               •     Alcohol and Substance Abuse
               •     Cancer awareness and prevention
               •     Asthma and adult respiratory issues
               •     Chronic conditions: Heart disease, diabetes, hypertension
               •     Sleep deprivation and related issues
               •     Acute diseases: water and food borne illness
               •     Mindfulness & Resiliency Training

   E. Responsibilities

       1. Executive Team: The Executive Team will carry out the following responsibilities:

           a. Sponsor and support, as needed, the activities of the Wellness Advisory Council.

           b. Appoint the Wellness Advisory Council Chair person

           c. Review and approve the department’s Wellness charter, policy and agency plan.

           d. Review department wellness achievements and periodically update staff.

           e. Prioritize funding for the wellness committees and activities.



Effective: 8/28/18                          Page 3 of 5                            Policy 20.6.18
       2. Functional Unit Managers: Functional unit managers will carry out the following
          responsibilities:

           a. Recognize health and wellness promotion as part of the local wellness committee’s
              role, allowing a reasonable amount of time for members to participate.

           b. Support employee participation in all 8 dimensions of wellness activities such as
              health screenings, events and educational opportunities.

           c. In an effort to support employees making conscious decisions about their nutrition, or
              those who have medical concerns (diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart disease),
              management teams and groups who sponsor food related events shall add healthy
              choices to the food offered.

       3. Wellness Advisory Council: The Wellness Advisory Council will carry out the following
          responsibilities:

           a. Oversee program work of wellness committees to develop wellness, strategies, and
              measures plans.

           b. Measure progress of wellness practices by DOC staff and report progress and
              achievements on a regular basis to the Executive Team.

           c. The Chair shall maintain membership on and participation in the Governor’s Wellness
              Council.

           d. Ensure DOC statistics and data are entered into the Governor’s Wellness Council
              Statewide Scorecard and other liaison activities.

           e. Carry wellness promotion ideas and recommendations to the Executive Team.

           f.   Prior to each calendar year, provide wellness committees monthly health and
                wellness topics related to the 8 dimensions of wellness.

           g. Coordinate wellness efforts and policy updates as needed.

           h. Represent the department in external groups.

           i.   Oversee the distribution of promotional materials and resources.

       4. Wellness Committees: Wellness committees will carry out the following
          responsibilities:

           a. Work with local management to establish proactive promotion strategies based on
              the DOC wellness plan and policy.

           b. Distribute wellness information to employees.

           c. Encourage individual participation and coordinate local wellness activities.

           d. Provide suggestions to the functional unit managers and the Wellness Advisory
              Council for additional topics or activities.


Effective: 8/28/18                         Page 4 of 5                               Policy 20.6.18
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified: _signature on file____________________
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _signature on file____________________
Brian Belleque, Deputy Director




Effective: 8/28/18                         Page 5 of 5                        Policy 20.6.18
