                                     DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                            Institutions

                       Special Population Management
     Title:            Committee                                     DOC Policy: 40.3.1
     Effective:        05/22/20                                   Supersedes: 01/13/15
                       Institutions, Office of Population Management, and Behavioral Health
     Applicability:    Services
     Directives Cross-Reference:
             Rules: Administrative Housing (Div 046)
                      Intensive Management Unit (Div 055)
                      Segregation (Disciplinary) (Div 011)
     Attachments: None


I.    PURPOSE
      The Special Population Management Committee (SPM) reviews Intensive Management Unit
      (IMU) assignment requests for Adults in Custody (AICs) that demonstrate serious management
      concerns and could classify at custody level 5. The SPM Committee approves all IMU
      assignments, which include IMU diversions and accelerated diversion plans to the IMU program
      for AICs that receive long term Disciplinary Segregation Unit (DSU) sanctions, with serious mental
      health concerns. The SPM Committee oversees all IMU releases. In addition, the SPM Committee
      makes administrative housing assignments on all approved administrative housing referrals.
I.    DEFINITIONS
      A. Administrative Housing: Housing separate and apart from the general population, including
         facilities, rooms, or cells for AICs whose actions, or threats jeopardize the safety, security,
         and orderly operation of the facility, staff, visitors, or other AICs or for those AICs who
         require protective custody and no other reasonable housing alternative is available.
      B. Administrative Housing Packet: A compilation of information that supports a request for
         administrative housing. The administrative housing packet will consist of CD 1482 along
         with any additional information the submitting party feels is pertinent.
      C. Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections
         who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision.
      D. AIC IMU Appeal Packet: The packet provided to the AIC following IMU placement and shall
         include the Request for Administrative Review (CD1120aD), Notice of Administrative
         Review Rights/Procedures (CD 1864), Delivery verification form (CD 1863), Copy of the
         Intensive Management Unit Administrative Action Sheet (CD8a), and the Classification
         scoring form.
      E. Correctional Information System (CIS): A computer system dedicated to tracking
         information critical to the management of AICs and offenders under the custody,
         supervision or both of the Department of Corrections.

          Effective: 05/22/20                         page 1                         Policy 40.3.1
F. Custody Level 5: An AIC assigned to this custody level presents an extreme risk of escape,
   violence, or disruption to the safe, secure, and orderly operation of a Department of
   Corrections facility. No Level 5 AICs shall be housed in a general population housing unit.
G. IMU Assignment Packet: A packet submitted to the SPM Committee to review for assigning
   an AIC to IMU. The IMU packet will consist of the Intensive Management Unit
   Administrative Action Sheet (CD8a).
H. IMU Multi-disciplinary Team (IMU MDT): An institution committee that reviews an AIC’s
   movement among the program levels. The Assistant Superintendent of Correctional
   Rehabilitation will chair the committee. The committee will consist of staff from
   Correctional Rehabilitation, Behavioral Health Services, Security Threat Management,
   Religious Services, and security. Representatives from the Office of Population
   Management, Education section, Health Services, and Hearings may also attend.
I. Institution Multi-disciplinary Team (MDT): An institution committee that reviews,
   evaluates, and manages the needs of special population AICs housed in the custody of
   Department of Corrections facilities.
J. Intensive Management: The status of custody Level 5 AICs assigned to special security
   housing and programs in a designated intensive management unit or cell separate from
   general population housing units in Department of Corrections facilities.
K. Intensive Management Unit Diversion: If an AIC is being considered for IMU assignment
   and has been deemed seriously mentally ill (SMI) they will be housed in mental health
   special housing in lieu of IMU for the duration of the program or until there is a change in
   status.
L. Office of Population Management: A functional unit of the department that oversees
   capacity and resource management, long term prison planning, the AIC classification
   system, high risk AIC placement, Interstate Corrections Compact, treatment and program
   screening, Oregon Youth Authority/Oregon State Hospital/ghost caseloads, transgender
   AICs, centralized Static 99R assessments, centralized transfer authority, and staff and AIC
   conflict review.
M. Serious Management Concerns: Participation either individually, or in a group, in behavior
   which poses a significant threat to the safe and secure operation of the facility, including,
   but not limited to, threatening or inflicting bodily injury on another person, posing an
   immediate risk of escape, promoting or engaging in disruptive group behavior, promoting
   security threat group activities, or being involved in any other activity that could
   significantly threaten the safe and secure operation of the facility; and which poses a
   sufficient threat that, in the judgment of the department, such behavior can only be
   adequately controlled in appropriate special housing.
N. Special Population Management Committee (SPM): A committee that is chaired by a
   representative from the Office of Population Management and is composed of at least two
   additional Department staff from institution operations, and Behavioral Health Services
   who are responsible for reviewing referrals to the Intensive Management Unit (IMU),
   mental health special housing, or administrative housing.

   Effective: 05/22/20                         page 2                        Policy 40.3.1
II. POLICY
   A. Administrative Housing Placement
      Upon receipt of an approved voluntary or involuntary administrative housing referral, the
      SPM Committee will determine the housing assignment to any Department of Corrections
      Administrative Housing unit or alternative general population. The SPM Committee will
      notify the institution of their decision and arrange the AIC’s placement.
   B. Referrals for IMU Assignment
      1. Once an AIC presents serious management concerns an institution representative shall
             submit an IMU packet to the institution MDT for review. It is the responsibility of the
             institution where the AIC’s conduct occurred to submit the IMU packet, regardless of
             where the AIC is housed in segregation.
      2. MDT shall review the IMU packet to determine if the AIC’s conduct warrants IMU
             assignment. If the AIC is approved for an IMU referral, the Committee has 45 days from
             the final disciplinary order date to forward the IMU packet to the SPM Committee for
             consideration.
      3. The MDT chair or designee will review the packet for final approval prior to forwarding
             the packet to the SPM Committee.
      4. The Correctional Rehabilitation Services Manager or designee will notify the AIC in
             writing of the approved IMU referral. Upon this notification, the AIC has 14 days to
             submit a written rebuttal or mitigation response to the SPM Committee regarding
             his/her IMU referral.
   C. SPM Committee Responsibilities:
      1. IMU Referrals:
             a. Upon receipt of the IMU packet, the SPM Committee will review and make a
                decision within 30 days.
               i.   If the IMU packet is incomplete, the packet shall be returned to the institution’s
                    MDT chair or designee for resubmission.
              ii.   If the IMU packet is submitted outside the established timeframes, the functional
                    unit manager will be notified by the SPM Committee.
             b. Upon approval of IMU placement, a representative from the Office of Population
                Management will notify the institution where the AIC is currently housed. It is the
                institution’s responsibility to provide the AIC with an appeal packet to appeal
                his/her IMU placement within ten days of the SPM Committee’s approval.
      2. Special Housing Reassignment: SPM will review and make a housing placement decision
             for reassignment from the Administrative Segregation (ASU), Administrative Housing
             (AHU), Intensive Management Unit (IMU), Mental Health Infirmary (MHI), Intermediate
             Care Housing (ICH), Behavioral Housing Unit (BHU), Death Row Housing (DRU), or Death

      Effective: 05/22/20                           page 3                        Policy 40.3.1
       Row Status Cell. Housing placement may include general population or alternative
       special housing unit.
D. Diversion from DSU to IMU
   If an AIC is being considered for IMU assignment, and the IMU packet shows the AIC
   continues to demonstrate serious mental health concerns while housed in DSU, an
   accelerated transfer to the IMU program may be considered for the AIC’s mental health
   programming needs. An AIC may also be considered for an IMU diversion based on the AIC’s
   mental health needs. The following procedures shall occur for diversion to IMU:
   1. The SPM Committee may request an additional mental health evaluation be completed
       on the AIC to determine appropriate placement and programming.
   2. The SPM Behavioral Health Services representative will notify the facility of the request
       and the AIC will be placed in the Mental Health Infirmary (MHI) or appropriate housing
       for the mental health evaluation.
   3. The Behavioral Health Services MHI program manager is responsible for notifying the
       SPM Behavioral Health Services supervisor when the evaluation is complete and when
       the diversion plan, if applicable, is complete. Evaluations will be completed within 30
       days, whenever possible, of the AIC’s admission to the Mental Health Infirmary.
   4. The SPM Behavioral Health Services supervisor will assess the AIC’s evaluation and
       diversion plan. The SPM Behavioral Health Services supervisor/representative will
       present the AIC’s diversion plan to the SPM Committee for early diversion to the IMU
       program.
       a. The SPM Committee will review the AIC’s IMU diversion plan for approval and
          facilitate placement in the appropriate institution.
       b. The facility will be notified of the AIC’s IMU diversion plan and will have one week
          to review the plan. The AIC will then be sent to the approved facility.
E. IMU Re-assignment
   Within 30 days of an AIC attaining IMU program level 4 or upon IMU MDT recommendation
   for re-assignment from IMU, the committee will forward a written notification to the Office
   of Population Management Administrator or designee documenting the AIC’s IMU program
   performance and the AIC’s projected re-assignment from IMU.
   1. AICs re-assigned from IMU will be reviewed by SPM, along with representatives from
       each institution to determine the most appropriate placement.
   2. Any IMU releases that have special placement concerns shall be forwarded to the SPM
       Committee to make appropriate housing assignments.
   3. The facility will notify the Office of Population Management Administrator or designee
       of the AIC’s pending IMU re-assignment date and complete the out- assignment section
       of the CD8a.
   4. The Office of Population Management Administrator or designee will then remove the
       designator and enter the transfer request in the CIS as needed.
   Effective: 05/22/20                        page 4                        Policy 40.3.1
  III.    IMPLEMENTATION
         This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified:    signature on file
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator


Approved:       signature on file
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




         Effective: 05/22/20                       page 5                        Policy 40.3.1
