                                       DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                            Human Resources

      Title:           Dress Code                                      DOC Policy: 20.1.6
      Effective:       07/15/20                                        Supersedes: 7/1/15
                       Classified (where not in conflict with collective bargaining agreements),
                       management service, executive service, temporary employees,
                       volunteers, contractors, and any persons employed by private or public-
      Applicability:
                       sector agencies who are serving under department sanction special
                       assignment to provide services and/or support to department programs
                       within any DOC facility.
      Directives Cross-Reference:
                       DOC Policy 20.6.9 Respiratory Protection
      Attachments:     Attachment A – Uniform Checklist and Standards

 I.     PURPOSE
        To ensure the attire and personal and professional appearance of all department employees
        and non-employee service providers are appropriate to the requirements of their job duties
        and to related factors of safety, sanitation, security, and professional public image.

II.      DEFINITIONS

        A. Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections (DOC) who
           reports to the Director, Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an Administrator and
           has responsibility for the delivery of program services or the coordinator of the program
           operations. In a correctional setting, the functional unit manager, or designee, is the
           Superintendent.

        B. Line of Duty Death: The death of an active or reserve public safety or peace officer that
           occurs accidently or feloniously while performing work-related functions while on or off
           duty if sworn to act.

        C. Mourning Band: A solid black band that will fit tightly around a department approved
           badge, used to symbolize support following the death of a public safety or peace officer;
           or, the DOC black ribbon badged lapel pin for non-custodial or plain clothed employees.

        D. Off Duty Death: The death of an active or reserve public safety or peace officer that occurs
           as a result of personal injury outside the performance of work-related functions or from
           natural causes.



  Effective: 07/15/20                          Page 1 of 6                               Policy 20.1.6
       E. Non-Employee Service Providers (NSP): An individual who provides services or programs
          to the department and or to adults in custody (AIC), but not as a paid employee of the
          department. Examples of non-employee service providers include contractors,
          volunteers, mentors, criminal justice partners, and government agency partners.
III.   POLICY
       Every department employee shall be well groomed and dress in a professional manner
       appropriate to the employee’s work assignment.

       A. All department employees, both uniformed and non-uniformed, and non-employee
          service providers are subject to the following requirements:

          1. Sideburns, mustaches, and beards are permissible (unless the employee or non-
             employee service provider is required to use a respirator and their facial hair
             interferes with compliance of OSHA standards outlined in the DOC policy 20.6.9,
             Respiratory Protection).

          2. Clothing made with blue denim is not permitted attire for any employee or non-
             employee service provider working within or on department property where adults in
             custody are housed.

          3. All employees shall wear department-issued nametags with the department emblem
             and/or a department-issued ID card when in DOC correctional facilities.

                a. One silver/gold star will be issued to employees for each five years of service with
                   the Department of Corrections.

                b. The silver/gold star will be placed on the department-issued nametag under the
                   employee’s name.

          4. Non-employee service providers shall wear department-issued ID cards.

          5. Clothing with written messages, photographs or pictures, and clothing that exposes
             the midriff, thighs, bare back or revealing neckline are not permitted (clothing with
             small manufactured logo is acceptable).

          6. Clothing such as sweatshirts or jogging suits may be worn for special activities with
             authorization from the manager or supervisor (e.g., taking inventory of property,
             moving offices, participating in self-defense classes, a designated special occasion
             day).

       B. Employees will be cognizant that co-workers, adults in custody, and visitors may be
          chemically sensitive to fragrances and other scented products, and shall use perfume,


   Effective: 07/15/20                         Page 2 of 6                               Policy 20.1.6
       cologne, aftershave, and other similar items appropriately.

   C. Certain employees are required to wear uniforms consistent with the applicable Uniform
      Checklist & Standards (Attachment A) established for their specific function or job
      assignment:

       1. Correctional Security;

       2. Physical Plant

       3. Central Distribution Center (CDC);

       4. Food Services;

       5. Recreational/Activities; and

       6. Health Services.

   D. All uniformed employees are subject to the following dress requirements:

       1. Department issued clothing will not be modified without authorization from
          functional unit manager or designee (exception: hemming pants);

       2. Employees will not substitute personal clothing for clothing issued by the facility or
          add unauthorized personal items to clothing;

       3. Only DOC issued shirts, coats, and trousers are to be worn;

       4. The uniform will always be worn in a professional manner. The uniform may be worn
          in the community when travelling to and from work with reasonable stops authorized.
          The uniform or any portion of it will not be worn in taverns, bars, marijuana
          dispensaries, or while purchasing or consuming alcoholic beverages and/or marijuana
          in public;

       5. Any uniformed employee who transfers to another facility within the same section
          will transfer with his/her standard uniform issued;

       6. Uniformed employees will be required to sign a receipt for uniforms issued. The
          section manager or designee will retain the receipt on file;

       7. Class A uniform: The only adornments that may be worn on the uniform will be tiepins,
          DOC designated awards/service pins and department approved belt buckles. A union
          pin, small US flag, a Veteran’s pin, Military Branch pin, Honor Guard Ribbon, or

Effective: 07/15/20                       Page 3 of 6                              Policy 20.1.6
           corrections-related professional affiliation pin may be worn on the clip-on tie, pocket
           flap, or immediately above the pocket. DOC awarded service pins will be placed on
           the left pocket tab of the uniform shirt and centered above the button; DOC mourning
           bands may be worn by staff if authorized; and

       8. For Correctional Security Employees: handcuffs and chemical agent to be worn while
          on duty. Protective body armor is required when an employee has chemical agent
          spray in the community. Exceptions may be approved by the functional unit manager.

   E. Special requirements: all employees and non-employee service providers will wear
      department issued orange vests when entering an area where there is supervision of a
      large gathering of adults in custody (i.e., recreation yard), where the primary backup is
      gun control (i.e., towers) or while working on any roof area. Department issued orange
      vests will:

       1. Be issued by and returned to the officer-in-charge or designee;

       2. Not be altered in any way; and

       3. Not be adorned in any way.

   F. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Personal protective equipment (e.g., boots, shoes,
      goggles, gloves, eye protection, masks, etc.) that is issued/supplied for a work site,
      position, post, or classification shall be considered part of the uniform supplied by the
      department and worn as described in Paragraph III., D., of this policy.

   G. DOC Mourning Bands

       1. The mourning band should be worn straight across the center of the badge. For star
          badges, the mourning band should be worn from 11 to 5, as if looking at the face of a
          clock. The width of the black band should not exceed ½ inch.

       2. The Director, Deputy Director or Assistant Director of Operations must authorize the
          wearing of the mourning band.

       3. Upon the line of duty death of a department public safety officer, the mourning band
          should be worn as indicated and only upon authorization:

           a. Department public safety officers are approved to wear the mourning band from
              the time of authorization until 30 days from the date of death or at the discretion
              of the functional unit manager.

           b. Non-public safety officer employees are approved to wear the DOC badge black

Effective: 07/15/20                        Page 4 of 6                              Policy 20.1.6
                    ribbon lapel pin from the time of authorization until 30 days from the date of
                    death or at the discretion of the functional unit manager.

                 c. The mourning band or lapel pin may be worn by those attending a memorial
                    service.

             4. Upon an off-duty death of a department public safety officer, including retirees, the
                mourning band should be worn as indicated and upon authorization:

                 a. Department public safety officers are approved to wear the mourning band from
                    the time of authorization until 11:59 pm the day following the conclusion of the
                    memorial service or at the discretion of the functional unit manager.

                 b. Non-public safety officer employees are approved to wear the DOC badge black
                    ribbon lapel pin from the time of authorization until 11:59 pm the day following
                    the conclusion of the memorial service or at the discretion of the Functional Unit
                    Manager.

                 c. The mourning band or lapel pin may be worn by those attending the memorial
                    service.

             5. The Director, Deputy Director, or Assistant Director of Operations may authorize the
                wearing of the mourning band for other incidences as a symbol of support and
                remembrance during a time of local, state, or national mourning.

         H. All functional unit specific property (e.g., handcuffs, badges, etc.) shall be returned to the
            appropriate manager upon promotion (when appropriate), reassignment to a different
            position, or separation from the Department of Corrections. All other department issued
            uniform items will remain with the employee until change of uniform standards,
            assignment to a non-uniform position or termination from state service.

         I. Any exceptions to the requirement of this policy for medical purposes must be presented
            in writing to the supervisor and are subject to final approval by the functional unit
            manager.


IV.      IMPLEMENTATION

         This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



      Certified: _signature on file__________________

      Effective: 07/15/20                        Page 5 of 6                                Policy 20.1.6
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _signature on file________________
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective: 07/15/20                   Page 6 of 6   Policy 20.1.6
