                                   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                           Programs

Title:               Volunteer/Student Interns                     DOC Policy: 90.2.6
Effective:           10/16/13                                      Supersedes: 7/20/11
Applicability:       All Department Staff, Volunteers, and Student Interns
Directives Cross-Reference:
       Rule: Volunteer/Student Intern – Div 15
                Facility Access – Div 16
                Visiting (Inmate) – Div 127
       Policy: Investigations – 70.1.4
               School to Work – 20.4.13
               Volunteers Services/Student Interns (Comm Corr) – 50.1.4
                    Vehicle Use and Reporting of Accidents – 20.6.10.
              Donations – 30.1.7
Attachments:
      Attachment A – Volunteer Process / Record and ID Card Process
      Attachment B – Facility Orientation
      Form – Volunteer Application (CD 1363)
      Form – Volunteer/Student Intern Position Description (CD 1362)
      Form – Volunteer Program LEDS Information (CD 1532)
      Form – Volunteer Statement of Professionalism (CD 1590)
      Form – Notice of Volunteer-Inmate Relationship (CD 1614)
      Form – Employee as Volunteer Position Description (CD 1626)

I.       PURPOSE

         The purpose of this policy is to define and establish procedures for the volunteer/student
         intern program for volunteers and student interns working inside DOC facilities or assisting
         with transition from prison to the community.

II.      DEFINITIONS

         A.   Affiliation: An organization; such as a school, college, university, agency, faith group,
              spiritual group, 12-step program, non-profit corporation or foundation, or similar type
              organizations, that has defined structure and recognition as a legitimate organization in
              the community. Affiliation-sponsored programs belong to the affiliation and not to the
              volunteers who staff them.

         B.   Department Supervisor: A Department of Corrections employee who is responsible for
              the activities and programs provided by volunteers while inside the facility.

         C.   Endorser: An official of the volunteer’s affiliation who has the authority to certify that the
              volunteer is endorsed by their organization to provide services for inmates. If the
              volunteer is the endorser for the affiliation, another official of the affiliation must provide
              the endorsement.

         D.   Facility Volunteer Coordinator: A facility staff person appointed by the facility functional
              unit manager, who as part of his/her job, assists the volunteer program manager and

Effective 10/16/13                              Page 1 of 14                                   Policy 90.2.6
           volunteer program representatives in conducting the volunteer program at a particular
           facility or functional unit. Functional units may also have volunteer coordinators.

     E.    Home for Good in Oregon (HGO): A Religious Services’ transition program that
           connects releasing inmates with spiritual mentors, faith-based organizations and
           community services in the communities to which they return.

     F.    LEDS: Law Enforcement Data System.

     F.    Offender: Any person under supervision who is on parole, post prison supervision,
           transitional leave, local control and/or probation status.

     H.    Program Manager: An Inmate Services employee assigned to oversee, manage, and
           conduct the volunteer program for the department. Whenever the term program
           manager is used in this policy it will be understood to mean program manager or
           designee.

     I.    Student Intern/Practicum: An approved student in a college or university who, as part of
           an academic program, donates time and effort to enhance the mission, activities, and
           programs of the department and to further his/her professional development. For
           purposes of this policy, wherever the term “volunteer” is used, it shall also apply to
           student interns.

           1.   This policy does not apply to a student that is receiving pay from or under contract
                to the department.

           2.   An intern must receive college credit for his/her service to the department.

           3.   This policy applies to students who require carded access to department facilities.
                All other interns are covered under the department's policy on School to Work,
                20.4.13.

     J.    Volunteer: An approved person who donates time, knowledge, skills, and effort to
           enhance the mission, activities and programs of the department. A volunteer serves at
           the pleasure of the department. A volunteer is not paid for their services, however paid
           ODOC employees may serve as volunteers as provided below. Unless otherwise
           specified, when the word “volunteer” is used in this rule, it refers to all categories of
           volunteers. The following are categories of volunteers:

           1.   Non-carded-volunteer: An individual who:
                • Participates in nonrecurring programs of limited duration
                • Volunteers less than six times a year
                • Is being evaluated for carded-volunteer status
                • Is a guest speaker. This is an individual that does not meet the security
                   clearance of this policy, but is approved by the facility functional unit manager
                   to enter the facility for each event.

           2.   Carded-volunteer: An individual who has completed volunteer training, an
                application, facility and functional unit orientation, and who has been approved by
                a functional unit manager.

           3.   Home for Good in Oregon (HGO) Volunteer: An individual who has completed the
                designated training, an application, has been approved by a department chaplain
                or designee, and is under the supervision of a department employee or agent.


Effective 10/16/13                         Page 2 of 14                                 Policy 90.2.6
                  a.    An HGO volunteer may also be a part of a community based organization
                        and may perform work for that organization that may be contrary to
                        department rules, policies or practices. Such activities will not be grounds for
                        dismissal as a volunteer.

       K.   Volunteer Information Management System (VIMS): A computerized database used to
            manage the volunteer program and control access of volunteers to facilities.

       L.   Volunteer Position Description: Form CD 1362 used to define the duties of a volunteer
            or student intern.

       M.   Volunteer Program Representative: An Inmate Services employee who reports to the
            program manager and assists in program development and management at multiple
            facilities.

III.   POLICY AND PROCEDURES

       It is the policy of the Department of Corrections to utilize volunteers and student interns with
       appropriate training, guidance, and supervision as a means to enhance programs and further
       the mission of the department.

       A.   Program Structure

            1.    Volunteer Services is responsible for the administration, overall structure, and
                  operation of the department’s volunteer program with the exception of Community
                  Corrections volunteers. Community corrections volunteers are covered under
                  policy 50.1.4, Volunteer Services/Student Interns (Community Corrections).

            2.    The program manager oversees and provides direction for the volunteer program.
                  Responsibilities include administration of the volunteer program, directive
                  development, and interpretation of rules and policies that apply to volunteers.

            3.    The volunteer program representative assists with recruitment, training, and
                  coordination of volunteers, development of department policies and procedures,
                  and represents the volunteer program in the community.

            4.    The Volunteer Information Management System (VIMS) is used to monitor and
                  control volunteer access to facilities. It is the repository of information on
                  volunteers.

                  a.    All department staff who have a business need may access VIMS, but
                        changes to data may only be made by volunteer program staff or other staff
                        designated by the program manager.

                  b.    Institution security staff will check all carded-volunteers in and out using
                        VIMS.

            5.    Each facility shall designate a facility Volunteer Coordinator. The facility volunteer
                  coordinator shall facilitate the volunteer training classes when offered at the
                  facility, arrange and schedule facility orientation, and arrange for volunteer ID
                  cards and fingerprints. The facility volunteer coordinator will:

                  a.    Arrange for initial LEDS, prepare visitor authorizations, and arrange escorts
                        for non-carded volunteers;


Effective 10/16/13                            Page 3 of 14                                 Policy 90.2.6
                b.     Coordinate volunteer appreciation events at the institution;

                c.     Provide the program manager or program representative a roster of those
                       who have completed facility orientation; and

                d.     Perform other responsibilities as assigned by agreement between the facility
                       functional unit manager and the program manager.

           6.   The flow of the volunteer process is detailed in Attachment A.

     B.    Application

           1.   A volunteer must complete a volunteer application. A volunteer shall provide their
                driver’s license number and date of birth on the application for use in background
                checking. Failure to provide all requested information or sign all forms included in
                the application will result in volunteer status being denied. The completed
                application shall be reviewed and approved by the program manager or volunteer
                program representative to receive volunteer status.

           2.   A volunteer must disclose on the volunteer application any connection to
                department inmates such as friends, neighbors, relatives, co-defendants, and
                victimizers. The program manager will review this information to determine if the
                applicant should be approved as a volunteer.
           3.   A volunteer shall sign the Volunteer Program-Statement of Professionalism and
                Ethics form (CD 1590), attesting to maintaining the highest ideals of
                professionalism and ethics. Volunteers are expected to be true to the mission and
                values of the Department of Corrections and protect the safety and welfare of the
                public.

           4.   An employee making application to volunteer for the department must disclose
                their work relationship (past or present) with the department on the Volunteer
                Program application. Current duties of the employee shall be disclosed. A
                determination under the FLSA shall be made by the functional unit manager to
                determine if the volunteer assignment is appropriate and will not create and
                overtime obligation for the department.

     C.    Selection

           1.   Volunteers must have an affiliation that has sufficient knowledge of the volunteer
                to endorse the volunteer as a good role model who holds pro-social values,
                beliefs, and ideals. The volunteer must be an active participant of the affiliation’s
                activities in the community.

                a.     Affiliations must provide their volunteers with training on the material
                       presented to inmates with the understanding that their materials must be
                       delivered in such a way as to meet the correctional objectives of the
                       department. Under the direction of the volunteer’s supervisor, the affiliation
                       will set and track goals, assure the integration of evidence-based principles
                       and practices into what is delivered, and if appropriate, provide and use an
                       approved curriculum.

                b.     The affiliation’s endorser or designee will report on the volunteer’s services
                       to the volunteer’s department supervisor at least twice a year, and meet with
                       their volunteer on a regular basis to assure compliance with this policy.

Effective 10/16/13                          Page 4 of 14                                Policy 90.2.6
           2.   The potential volunteer will be interviewed by the prospective department
                supervisor. For an HGO volunteer, the interview will be done by a designated staff
                or agent.

           3.   Volunteers must be:

                a.   A USA citizen, legal resident, or in the country on a valid visa.

                b.   At least 18 years old. The functional unit manager may grant an exception if
                     there will be no interaction between the volunteer and inmates.

           4.   Security Clearance Process: Volunteers and prospective volunteers must meet
                the following criteria:

                a.   LEDS: To clear LEDS, a volunteer must have:

                     (1)   No outstanding warrants or pending criminal charges.

                     (2)   No misdemeanor convictions in the past two years. No felony
                           convictions or incarcerations in the past five years. The functional unit
                           manager may, on a case-by-case basis, approve an individual with no
                           felony convictions or incarcerations in the past three years.

                     (3)   No escape from a correctional facility. In the case of someone who
                           walked away from a work crew, the functional unit manager may
                           approve them to volunteer providing they are otherwise qualified under
                           this policy.

                b.   LEDS (HGO): To clear LEDS, an HGO volunteer must have:

                     (1)   No outstanding warrants or pending criminal charges.

                     (2)   No felony or misdemeanor convictions in the past two years.

                     (3)   No escape from a correctional facility in the past three years. In the
                           case of someone who walked away from a work crew, the functional
                           unit manager may approve them to volunteer providing they are
                           otherwise qualified under this policy.

                c.   No convictions for introduction or supplying contraband as defined in ORS
                     162.185; or possession, control or delivery of an explosive device or
                     substance; or assisting an inmate to escape or unlawful departure from a
                     correctional facility, including attempt or conspiracy of any of the above.

                d.   May be under supervision but with no parole/probation violations in the past
                     two years, or one year for a HGO volunteer, and approval of his or her
                     parole officer.

                e.   A prospective volunteer with a prior criminal conviction who performs
                     services inside a correctional facility must have the approval of the facility
                     functional unit manager at each facility where the service will be provided.
                     The approval must be noted on the Volunteer Program LEDS Information
                     form (CD 1532).

Effective 10/16/13                         Page 5 of 14                                  Policy 90.2.6
           5.   Driving record: A volunteer may not have been convicted of Driving Under the
                Influence of Intoxicants (DUII) in the past two years or Driving While Suspended
                (DWS) in the last year. The number and type of other driving offenses may be
                considered in determining if a volunteer is a good role model.

           6.   A volunteer may visit an inmate in accordance with the rule on Visiting (Inmate),
                OAR 291-127.

                a.   In the case of an immediate family member, a volunteer may not serve at the
                     facility where the family member is housed.

                b.   An HGO volunteer may be on an inmate’s visiting list, but cannot work with
                     an inmate through the HGO program nor, as a volunteer, access the facility
                     where the inmate is housed without prior approval of the facility functional
                     unit manager.

           7.   Additional Criteria:

                a.    A volunteer may not enter or serve in a facility where a co-defendant is
                      incarcerated.

                b.    A volunteer who has been the victim of a crime may not volunteer at a facility
                      where the perpetrator is housed.

                c.    An HGO volunteer may not work with a released offender who was a co-
                      defendant in a criminal act.

                d.    An HGO volunteer who has been the victim of a crime may not work with the
                      perpetrator.

                e.    No one shall receive volunteer status that has been determined by the
                      department to have provided a controlled substance, drug related
                      paraphernalia, or tobacco to an inmate or offender.

                f.    No one shall receive volunteer status that has been determined by the
                      department to have engaged or allowed others to engage in a sexual or
                      other inappropriate relationship with an inmate, or in the case of a HGO
                      volunteer, a released offender.

           8.   Addictions Recovery/Self-Help Volunteers: Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), Dual
                Diagnosis Anonymous (DDA), Narcotics Anonymous (NA), Gamblers Anonymous
                (GA), Al-Anon, and other self-help volunteers must be able to verify that they have
                had continuous sobriety/recovery under nonresidential, independent living
                conditions for the immediate past two years.

                a.    These volunteers must be actively involved in self-help meetings or similar
                      activities in the community.

                b.    Self-Help volunteers must be recommended to the department by their
                      Hospital and Institutions Committee (H&I) or Corrections Committee; or by
                      written confirmation of sobriety by the volunteer’s sponsor and written
                      confirmation of regular meeting attendance by those chairing the meetings in


Effective 10/16/13                         Page 6 of 14                                Policy 90.2.6
                     the community. Yearly verification of sobriety and meeting attendance is
                     required.

           9    Employees, ex-employees not terminated for cause, retired employees, other
                agency staff and contractors may serve as volunteers. Current employees who
                serve as volunteers must have the approval of the functional unit manager. The
                employee’s volunteer activities must be substantially different from his/her paid job
                responsibilities. As established under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and
                DAS State Policy, 20.005.20, employees shall not be allowed to volunteer to do
                the same work as that for which the employee is paid. The differentiation must be
                noted in the Employee as a Volunteer Position Description form (CD 1626).

           10   A student intern must be recommended by the appropriate official of the school,
                training program, mentorship or apprenticeship, or college or university where
                he/she is enrolled.

     D.    Training and Orientation

           1.   After volunteering at least two times and not more than six times, a volunteer must
                attend training approved by the program manager.

                a.   The training must be completed within 60 calendar days. Exceptions may be
                     granted by the program manager.

                b.   If the volunteer has not completed the required training or been granted an
                     exception, he/she may not continue to volunteer until training has been
                     completed. Completion of volunteer training is a prerequisite to receiving a
                     department ID card.

           2.   Facility orientation will be provided within 45 calendar days of receipt of the
                volunteer application and is also a prerequisite for a department ID card.
                Orientation will be held at days and times when volunteers are readily available.
                Minimum requirements for what shall be included in facility orientation are in
                Attachment B.

           3.   Key, tool, radio, escort and special housing training will be provided by facility staff
                when appropriate.

           4.   Functional unit orientation will be provided by the volunteer’s department
                supervisor or designee.

           5.   In-service training and other training may be offered periodically.

           6.   An HGO volunteer will complete all required HGO training before working
                individually with inmates or offenders.

     E.    Volunteer ID Card

           1.   Within 14 calendar days of completion of facility orientation, the facility volunteer
                coordinator will arrange for fingerprinting and ID card photograph. The record and
                ID process is contained in Attachment A.

                a.   ID card request forms will be submitted to the program manager or program
                     representative for review and approval. However, the facility functional unit

Effective 10/16/13                          Page 7 of 14                                   Policy 90.2.6
                      manager may elect to extend non-carded status indefinitely for volunteers
                      with a criminal history or for other justifiable reasons.

                b.    In such cases, the volunteer will not be issued an ID card for access to any
                      ODOC facility. It is the responsibility of the facility functional unit manager to
                      notify all other affected facilities and the program manager or program
                      representative of the decision to extend non-carded status. If non-carded
                      status is not extended, an ID Card Request form will be submitted within 90
                      days of the completion of facility orientation.

                c.    An HGO volunteer mentor will not be given an ID card. The HGO volunteer’s
                      name will be added to the approved mentor list so that the volunteer may
                      meet with assigned inmates through the visiting room.

                d.    An HGO volunteer may be given a volunteer ID card when frequent access
                      to facilities is a regular part of the service provided and the HGO volunteer
                      has a facility supervisor who requests it. In such cases, the HGO volunteer
                      must meet the clearance requirements and complete the training required of
                      a carded-volunteer.

           2.   If a carded-volunteer does not enter a department facility to do volunteer work at
                least three times in a calendar year, a review may be conducted by the volunteer
                program to determine if the volunteer should be returned to non-carded or inactive
                status.

           3.   When a volunteer’s service is ended, the ID card and any key and radio chits in
                the volunteer’s possession must be returned to the department.

     F.    Facility Access

           1.   Access must be in compliance with the department’s rule on Facility Access
                (OAR 291-016).

           2.   A volunteer may be approved to access more than one facility. A volunteer
                assigned to more than one facility must complete a facility orientation at each
                facility where services are provided. The volunteer will have a department
                supervisor at each facility where services are provided.

           3.   For a volunteer with no criminal history who is providing services at more than one
                facility, approval by one facility functional unit manager is sufficient.

           4.   It is the responsibility of the facility supervisor to obtain the facility functional unit
                manager’s approval for a volunteer to access the facility. It is the responsibility of
                the department supervisor to insure that the volunteer has security clearance and
                all necessary approvals, before access to a facility is allowed.

           5.   A volunteer may enter a facility only at the scheduled time and may only be in the
                assigned areas within the facility.

           6.   A carded volunteer may escort non-carded volunteers. A carded-volunteer may be
                approved by the facility functional unit manager to supervise other volunteers and
                to draw keys and/or radios.



Effective 10/16/13                           Page 8 of 14                                    Policy 90.2.6
           7.    A non-carded volunteer will be admitted to facilities via a visitor authorization form
                 however, a non-carded-volunteer is not a facility visitor as defined in the
                 department’s rule on Facility Access (OAR 291-016).

           8.    A guest speaker must be escorted and supervised by staff.

           9.    A foreign national in the country on a valid visa, but for whom getting a valid LEDS
                 check is not possible, may be admitted when escorted and supervised by staff
                 with the facility functional unit manager’s approval.

     G.    Utilization

           1.    Services provided by a volunteer must be listed on the position description. A
                 volunteer who provides different services in more than one facility or functional
                 unit needs a position description for each unit. Position descriptions must be
                 updated prior to any change.

           2.    No volunteer shall be placed in a position of authority over employees or
                 contractors.

           3.    A volunteer shall not perform professional services requiring certification or
                 licensing unless the program manager or volunteer program representative
                 verifies that the volunteer has a valid license.

           4.    A Religious Services volunteer may only represent a single spiritual/religious
                 tradition. The volunteer may teach and lead activities associated with that tradition
                 only, and must be an active participant in that tradition in the community. The
                 program manager may grant exceptions based on the programming needs of
                 inmates and the qualifications of the volunteer.

           5.    A volunteer may provide services to offenders in the community as well as
                 inmates in DOC facilities provided it is in the volunteer’s approved position
                 description.

           6.    A volunteer shall be treated with the same respect as staff and recognized as
                 having a unique role that differs from, but is complementary to staff roles.

           7.    An employee when serving as a volunteer shall not exercise greater authority than
                 is appropriate for a volunteer.

           8.    Direct physical supervision of a carded-volunteer may not be necessary when
                 other forms of supervision or the use of a radio, body alarm, surveillance cameras
                 or similar device is available.

           9.    Department supervisors shall visit each program they supervise or conduct review
                 meetings with the volunteers of each program at least semiannually.

           10.   Unless approved in advanced by the department supervisor, a volunteer may not
                 write to, receive letters from or accept phone calls from inmates, offenders or their
                 families with the exception of immediate family members of the volunteer.
                 Approvals will be noted in the position description.




Effective 10/16/13                           Page 9 of 14                                 Policy 90.2.6
           11.   Except as noted elsewhere in this policy, a volunteer may not place money in an
                 inmate’s trust account unless the inmate is an immediate family member of the
                 volunteer.

           12.   An HGO mentor, HGO community or regional chaplain or liaison, or carded-
                 volunteer who has been approved by Religious Services to do one-on-one
                 counseling may meet with inmates as a professional visitor through the facility
                 visiting room.

                 a.   Religious Services will provide the institution a list of volunteers who are
                      approved to do professional visits. Visits will be arranged and handled as
                      any other professional visit.

                 b.   A volunteer may bring books and papers needed for the visit into the visiting
                      room. This applies to both privileged and basic visits for general population
                      and special housing units.

                 c.   An HGO volunteer that is on the approved mentor list to meet with inmates
                      through the visiting room must additionally meet the requirements of an
                      inmate visitor as defined in the rule on Visiting (Inmate) (OAR 291-127).

                 d.   Inmates will not have visiting points deducted for these meeting with a
                      mentor.

     H.    General

           1.    If a volunteer becomes aware of a connection to an inmate, he or she must
                 immediately notify the program manager and the department supervisor in writing.

                 a.   The volunteer must complete an Inmate Relationship form (CD 1614).

                 b.   The Institution Security Manager/designee will review the information and
                      make a determination whether or not the volunteer can safely continue
                      volunteer service.

           2.    A volunteer may wear a head covering into and within a department facility when it
                 is part of the volunteer’s religious, spiritual or cultural tradition. The volunteer may
                 be asked to remove the head covering for the purpose of identification or a search
                 for contraband. A search should be done in a private room. A staff member of the
                 same sex as the volunteer should conduct the search.

           3.    If a volunteer’s connection with their affiliation ends, the volunteer’s service to the
                 department shall end immediately.

                 a.   The volunteer may reapply for active volunteer status after 90 days of active
                      association with a new affiliation, assuming that affiliation has an approved
                      department program. Exceptions may be granted by the program manager.

                 b.   Failure of the volunteer to notify the program manager or volunteer program
                      representative in writing within 30 days of severing connection with the
                      affiliation will be grounds for ending the volunteer’s services.




Effective 10/16/13                          Page 10 of 14                                  Policy 90.2.6
           4.   A volunteer may not give to or receive gifts from inmates or their families and
                friends unless approved in advanced by the functional unit manager and his/her
                department supervisor.

                a.   Any approved gift must be of minimal economic value such as a certificate of
                     appreciation or a simple plaque. However, a volunteer may provide clothing
                     for use on the day of release when other sources cannot be found of clothing
                     in the inmate’s size.

                b.   An HGO volunteer may expend money provided by faith community
                     organizations on behalf of released offenders. The volunteer is accountable
                     to those organizations for how the money is used.

           5.   The only physical contact allowed between a volunteer and an inmate is a
                handshake.

     I.    Issuance and Use of Motor Vehicles

           1.   A volunteer may use a state vehicle in accordance with DOC policy on Vehicle
                Use and Reporting of Accidents, 20.6.10.

           2.   When authorized in writing by the functional unit manager or program manager, a
                volunteer may use a state vehicle while engaged in official state business.

           3.   When a state vehicle is not available, a volunteer may be approved by the
                program manager to use their personal vehicles. A completed “Request for
                Approval to Use a Personal Vehicle” form (CD 1404) along with a copy of the
                current “Proof of Insurance” form and drivers license must be submitted to and
                approved by the program manager before the vehicle is used on state business.

J.   Fiscal Accountability for Volunteer Services

           1.   The DOC utilizes volunteers, where feasible, to enhance and expand services and
                programs, and provide appropriate opportunities for members of the community to
                have positive involvement with the department.

           2.   It is the responsibility of the Offender Management and Rehabilitation Division and
                Volunteer Program Supervisor to establish, develop and manage the overall
                structure and operation of the volunteer program and to collaborate with other
                ODOC Divisions when needed.

           3.   Volunteers who work for the DOC may be able to deduct some out-of-pocket
                expenses for donating service. The amounts must be:

                a.   Unreimbursed

                b.   Directly connected with the services (i.e. the costs of buying and cleaning a
                     uniform that must be worn at the location of service, but is not suitable for
                     everyday use)

                c.   Expenses incurred only because of the services they gave (i.e. gas and oil
                     directly related to getting to and from the DOC)


Effective 10/16/13                        Page 11 of 14                                Policy 90.2.6
                     NOTE: Volunteers should seek advice from their own tax advisors as to the
                     deductibility of these expenses.

           4.   Volunteers cannot deduct the value of their time or services, such as the value of
                income lost while working as an unpaid volunteer. Volunteers also cannot deduct
                personal, living, or family expenses.

           5.   Volunteers who contribute supply items such as notebooks, craft supplies and so
                forth should be reimbursed for such supplies. If the volunteer chooses to donate
                the supplies a receipt for the non-cash contributions should be provided per
                Section (III) (G) of the department’s policy on Donations, 30.1.7.

     K.    Rule Violations and Unsafe Practices

           1.   Illegal, Criminal or Anti-Social Behavior:

                a.   If a volunteer is arrested or charged with a felony or misdemeanor, has
                     his/her drivers license suspended or if there is a recurrence of alcohol/drug
                     abuse, the volunteer shall immediately report the incident in writing to his/her
                     department supervisor and the program manager. The volunteer’s facility
                     access may be suspended while a review is conducted.

                b.   If it is suspected that a volunteer has violated a department rule, policy,
                     procedure, state or federal law, or a volunteer has engaged in an act that
                     endangers the safe and orderly operation of a facility or threatens the
                     rehabilitative nature of the department’s mission, the volunteer’s access may
                     be suspended pending a review.

           2.   Investigations:

                a.   Investigations will be done in accordance with the department policy on
                     Investigations, 70.1.4.

                b.   An initial review of all reported violations will be conducted by the Volunteer
                     Program in consultation with appropriate interested functional unit managers
                     and parties. After initial review, if the reported violation warrants an
                     investigation to be completed in accordance with the policy on
                     Investigations, 70.1.4, the program manager will turn the information over
                     to the appropriate unit. The program manager will review the investigation
                     report and if appropriate, consult with other appropriate functional unit
                     managers and interested parties to determine a course of action. When
                     appropriate, preference will be given to additional training and supervision
                     over the termination of service.

                c.   When a volunteer is not the subject of an investigation, but will likely be
                     interviewed as part of an ongoing investigation, the investigator shall notify
                     the program manager unless such notification would compromise the
                     integrity of the investigation.

     L.    Ending of Volunteer Service

           1.   A volunteer’s service may be ended:


Effective 10/16/13                         Page 12 of 14                                Policy 90.2.6
                a.   For violation of department rules or policies;

                b.   If there is no longer a need for the volunteer’s services;

                c.   If the volunteer has not provided services to the department in a year;

                d.   If the volunteer requests it;

                e.   If the volunteer fails to respond to a department inquiry;

                f.   If the volunteer’s supervisor, the program manager, and the functional unit
                     manager deem it in the best interest of the department or the volunteer; or

                g.   If the affiliation withdraws its endorsement of the volunteer.

           2.   The program manager will follow the steps below after the service of a volunteer
                has ended:

                a.   The program manager will confirm in writing to the volunteer that there
                     service has ended with a copy to the volunteer’s affiliation.

                b.   The program manager will send a memo to the facility functional unit
                     manager and other interested parties informing them that the volunteer’s
                     service has ended.

                c.   The volunteer’s affiliation will be notified when applicable.

           3.   If convicted of a felony, misdemeanor, or DUII the volunteer’s access may be
                denied. The superintendent or functional unit manager has the final decision
                making authority.

     M.    Reinstatement to Active Volunteer Status

           1.   Reinstatement to active status:

                a.   At the request of the department supervisor and endorser, a volunteer who
                     has been inactive one year or less may be reinstated to active volunteer
                     status and issued an ID card. The volunteer may be required to fill out a new
                     volunteer application.

                b.   If a volunteer has been inactive for more than one year, the volunteer is
                     required to start the process as a new volunteer.

           2.   Reinstatement after volunteer service has ended:

                a.   A volunteer may, with the consent of their endorser, apply for reinstatement
                     after a one year waiting period. The request for reinstatement shall be
                     reviewed by the program manager and the volunteer’s previous department
                     supervisor.

                b.   If the decision is for reinstatement, the functional unit manager will be
                     consulted. If reinstatement is denied, the volunteer must wait another year
                     before seeking reinstatement.


Effective 10/16/13                         Page 13 of 14                               Policy 90.2.6
                c.   If reinstatement is granted, the individual making the request shall fill out a
                     new volunteer application and complete the training required of a new
                     volunteer.

                d.   The volunteer’s supervisor will monitor the volunteer’s activities regularly for
                     six months.

                e.   The reinstatement may be made conditional on other remedial activities.


IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      Attachments A and B may be updated by Volunteer Services without revising the policy.
      Updated attachments will be distributed as necessary.

Certified: ____signature on file__________________
           Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator

Approved: ____signature on file__________________
Mitch Morrow, Deputy Director




Effective 10/16/13                        Page 14 of 14                                 Policy 90.2.6
