                                     DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                          Business & Finance

                     Emergency Board and Interim Joint
Title:               Committee on Ways and Means Requests              DOC Policy: 30.5.2
Effective:           6/26/24                                           Supersedes: 3/15/17
Applicability:    All functional units
Directives Cross-Reference:
                 ORS 291.328 Board May Require Presentation of Evidence to Support
                                Requests for Action
                  ORS 8.105 Submission of Proposed Change to Legislative Committee
                  ORS 291.326(1)(a-d) Powers of Board Concerning Expenditures by State
                                 Agencies
                  ORS 276.390 Submission of Rent Schedule to Emergency Board or Joint
                                 Interim Committee on Ways and Means
                  ORS 291.371 Salary Plan Review by Legislative Review Agency
                  ORS 291.375 Legislative Review of Applications for Federal Financial
                                 Assistance
Attachment: None

I.       PURPOSE

         The purpose of this policy is to establish specific responsibilities within the
         Department of Corrections for identification and preparation of Emergency Board
         requests.

II.      DEFINITIONS

         A.   Emergency: Any catastrophe, disaster or unforeseen or unanticipated condition or
              circumstance, or abnormal change of conditions or circumstances, affecting the
              functions of a state agency and the expenditure requirements for the performance of
              these functions.

         B.   Emergency Board: The Emergency Board is a joint legislative committee which is
              empowered to make certain fiscal decisions in the absence of the full Legislature. They
              meet periodically during the second fiscal year of each biennium between the short
              legislative session and the long legislative session. The Emergency Board approves
              limitation increases, awards funds from the Emergency Fund and can approve
              applications for federal fund grants.

         C.   Functional Unit: Any organizational component within the Department of Corrections
              responsible for the delivery of program services or coordination of program
              operations.
Effective 6/26/24                             Page 1 of 4                               Policy 30.5.2
      D.    Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who
            reports to either the Director, the Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an
            administrator and has responsibility for delivery of program services or coordination
            of program operations.

      E.    Interim Joint Committee on Ways and Means: The Interim Joint Committee on Ways
            and Means is a legislative interim committee which is empowered to make certain
            fiscal decisions in the absence of the full Legislature. They meet periodically during the
            first fiscal year of each biennium between the long legislative session and short
            legislative session. The Interim Committee cannot approve funds or limitation but can
            approve application for federal funds grants. The Interim Committee refers
            recommendations for other actions to the short legislative session.


II.   POLICY

      A.    Determination of an Emergency

            1.      Functional unit managers shall monitor and assess the impact of circumstances
                    that develop which could have adverse fiscal impact upon a functional unit’s
                    programs.

            2.      As soon as such circumstances are identified as beyond the scope of the functional
                    unit, the affected functional unit manager will inform their Assistant Director.

            3.      If circumstances are identified as beyond the scope at the division level, the
                    Assistant Director will work with the agency Chief Financial Officer to determine
                    whether or not the problem can be resolved within the department’s legislatively
                    approved budget. If resolution cannot be reached, the issue will be brought
                    before the agency Executive Team for recommended action.

            4.      The Executive Team will review the problem to determine whether, in their
                    judgment, a defined emergency does exist. They will make a recommendation to
                    the Director. The Director will make the final determination and will communicate
                    the decision to the Executive Team. That communication may come through the
                    Chief Financial Officer.

            5.      Additionally, the Interim Joint Committee on Ways and Means or Emergency
                    Board reviews and approves agencies’ ability to apply for financial assistance or
                    grants specifically from the federal government. Agencies must not even apply for
                    a federal grant without legislative approval, and the Emergency Board fulfills that
                    role when the legislature is not in session. Once a grant is awarded, the full
                    legislature or Emergency Board approves additional limitation. Limitation
                    increases are necessary for both Other Funds and Federal Fund grants.

Effective 6/26/24                               Page 2 of 4                               Policy 30.5.2
      B.    Process of Emergency Board Request

            1.      When the Director determines that an Interim Joint Committee on Ways and
                    Means or Emergency Board request is required, the Chief Financial Officer will
                    notify the Department of Administrative Services and the Legislative Fiscal Office
                    of the agency’s intent to request action by the Interim Joint Committee on Ways
                    and Means or Emergency Board by the deadline put in place by the Legislative
                    Fiscal Office for submitting a Letter of Intent.

            2.      The Chief Financial Officer will provide the Assistant Director with the latest
                    process memo from the Legislative Fiscal Office regarding Interim Joint Committee
                    on Ways and Means or Emergency Board instructions which includes
                    requirements, criteria, templates, and direction on how to submit a Letter of
                    Request. The process requirements and templates can be found on Department of
                    Administrative Services Budget webpage under Emergency Board and Joint Ways
                    and Means Process.

            3.      The Assistant Director will then initiate a draft Letter of Request in the format
                    prescribed by the Department of Administrative Services Budget webpage under
                    Emergency Board and Joint Ways and Means Process. Draft requests for Interim
                    Joint Committee on Ways and Means or Emergency Board shall be forwarded to
                    the Chief Financial Officer one week prior to the Legislative Fiscal Office’s deadline
                    for submitting a Letter of Request.

            4.      The Chief Financial Officer will submit the draft Letter of Request to the Office of
                    Communications for review of language and formatting per Department of
                    Corrections communications standards.

            5.      Office of Communications will work with the Director’s Office to ensure the Letter
                    of Request gets signature approval and then gets returned to the Chief Financial
                    Officer. The Chief Financial Officer will submit to the Department of
                    Administrative Services and Legislative Fiscal Office prior to the deadline for
                    submitting a Letter of Request. The submission will include a copy to the Assistant
                    Director, Office of Communications, and Director’s Office.

            6.      The Director, Assistant Director, or affected functional unit manager will present
                    the request to the Interim Joint Committee on Ways and Means or Emergency
                    Board.

            7.      The Chief Financial Officer will inform the affected functional unit, Director,
                    Assistant Director, and Budget Office of actions taken by the Interim Joint
                    Committee on Ways and Means or Emergency Board.

            8.      Letters of Request will be initiated in business letter form on Department of
                    Corrections Director’s Office letterhead.

Effective 6/26/24                                Page 3 of 4                                Policy 30.5.2
            9.      The process for submitting Emergency Board and Interim Joint Committee on
                    Ways and Means requests for funding is the same process as submitting requests
                    for funding during a legislative session.


III.   IMPLEMENTATION

       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.

Certified:     signature on file
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved:      signature on file
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




Effective 6/26/24                             Page 4 of 4                            Policy 30.5.2
