                                DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                     Human Resources

      Title:          Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable      DOC Policy: 20.1.5
                      Positions in Correctional Officer
                      Classifications
      Supersedes:     DOC Policy 20.1.5, Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable
                      Positions in Correctional Officer Classifications, dated 07/15/98
      Applicability: All department employees in DPSST certifiable Correctional
                      Officer positions.
      Directives Cross-Reference: DPSST Physical Requirements; DPSST Manual:
                    “Entry Level Corrections Officer Job Task Analysis – 1996;”
                     Americans with Disabilities Act 42 USC & 12102 et seq.

I.         PURPOSE

           To establish the essential functions for all DPSST certifiable correctional officer
           positions with regard to the Americans with Disabilities Act.

II.        POLICY

           A.    For all department employees in DPSST certifiable correctional officer
                 positions, including security managers, assistant superintendents for
                 security, superintendents, the Department Chief of Security, the Assistant
                 Directors for Institutions, and the Department Director, the requirement to
                 meet the DPSST physical requirements for an entry level correctional officer
                 shall be considered an essential requirement of the job regardless of the
                 post, duty, or work station assigned. Accordingly, these employees shall:

                 1.     Maintain the physical fitness that meets the DPSST Medical Section
                        Guidelines (Attachment A);

                 2.     Upon the request of their supervisor and based on a work place or
                        job-related incident or event, take the DPSST physical at employer
                        expense; and

                 3.     Have the ability to perform all assigned essential tasks within each
                        of the following essential functions, with or without reasonable
                        accommodation:

                        a.     Maintain security;

                        b.     Use force – weapons;

                        c.     Manage conflicts – crisis;

                        d.     Search and seizure, investigations;



Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                              1 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications

                   e.      Maintain a healthy and safe environment; and

                   f.      Maintain an out of the ordinary control of inmates.

       B.   Employees who are unable to meet the physical requirements and perform
            the essential functions of the job as described in Paragraph II., A., above,
            may be placed in available and suitable department positions for which they
            are qualified per DOC policy. If no such positions are available, the
            employee shall be terminated. Any department personnel who do not meet
            these requirements shall not be eligible for any department DPSST
            certifiable Correctional Officer positions.

       C.   Department security managers shall develop and maintain a complete and
            up-to-date position description for each DPSST certifiable Correctional
            Officer position that accurately describes the assigned duties consistent
            with the essential functions in accordance with DOC Policy 20.3.1, Position
            Management.

       D.   The department Human Resources Division shall implement procedures to
            ensure that applicants selected for any security position, who are new to the
            department, demoting within the department, or as a lateral transfer or
            promotion from a non-custody classification, pass the DPSST physical
            requirements for entry-level correctional officers as a condition of
            permanent employment at applicant expense. The physical shall be
            completed no later than 45 days after date of hire.

III.   POLICY CLARIFICATION

       A.   Under regular supervision, all department DPSST certifiable Correctional
            Officer employees perform basic corrections services in accordance with
            the mission and performance objectives of the department in compliance
            with Federal, State and local laws.

       B.   It is a primary function of a Correctional Officer to maintain the custody and
            control of inmates. Therefore, inherent within all Correctional Officer
            positions is the ability to work all shifts, posts, and assignments in any
            facility and to perform all the essential functions including the ability to
            physically intervene in inmate disturbances for the safety and security of
            other inmates, employees and the general public.




Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                         2 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications

IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.




Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                         3 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications

             Attachment A
                      DPSST Medical Section Guidelines
                                   EYES AND VISION

Visual Acuity:

      Patrol tiers, cell areas, corridors and other security areas inside the facility to
      ensure security and observe inmate behavior.

      Monitor and control inmate shower and shaving activities.

      Observe inmate to verify presence and determine physical condition.

      Conduct head or institutional count.

      Supervise inmate activities in housing area.

      Break up fights between two or more inmates.

      Draw weapon to protect self.

      Use chemical agents to quell disturbance/riots.

      Confront and control hostile groups.

      Subdue inmates resisting restraint.

      Carry handgun while guarding inmates outside the facility.

      Notice and investigate unusual traffic or movement.

      Identify and observe group agitators, gang members, etc.

      Observe physical markings to recognize gang members.

      Observe inmates to recognize the symptoms of alcohol abuse.

      Recognize homosexual behavior.

      Recognize (identify) inmate groups, gangs, etc., to anticipate potential problems.

      Recognize behavioral characteristics of a violent offender.




Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                           4 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications

                                                                        Attachment A

      Observe inmate behavior and movement to prevent or stop physical conflict
      between prisoners.

      Observe physical conditions of incoming inmates.

      Observe incoming inmates to identify mental condition.

      Observe inmate to recognize symptoms of drug use.

      Observe mentally disturbed or suicidal inmates.

      Search visiting room before or after visits.

      Inspect or search clothing.

      Search inmate’s private property.

      Control entry into the detention area.

      Control and/or supervise inmate movement in or into housing areas.

      Control and/or supervise inmate movement in activity and program areas.

      Monitor /log behavior of inmates in administrative segregation.

      Search clothing/property left for inmates.

      Process evidence seized during search of inmates and/or cells, rooms, etc.

      Seize contraband.

      Search visiting room to discover contraband.

      Strip search inmates.

      Review procedures for handling inmates disciplinary problems.

      Escort inmate in motor vehicle.

      Notice and investigate unusual traffic or movement.

      Oversee clean up of blood and body fluids.

Color Vision:


Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                          5 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications

                                                                          Attachment A
      Use chemical agents to quell disturbance/riots.

      Observe physical marking to recognize gang members.

      Review and comprehend emergency procedures to be initiated in case of fire,
      escape, riot, etc.

      Inspect housing area to discover excessive combustible materials.

      Oversee clean up of blood and body fluids.

Depth Perception:

      Break up fights between two or more inmates.

      Draw weapon to protect self.

Peripheral Vision:

      Break up fights between two or more inmates

      Draw weapon to protect self.

Low Light/Night Vision:

      Draw weapon to protect self.

                                EARS AND HEARING

Hearing Acuity:

      Resolve conflict between inmates verbally.

      Resolve conflict between inmate and staff member verbally.

      Collect evidence for inmate disciplinary hearings ( interview, contraband, etc.)

      Respond to inmate’s verbal questions.

      Verbally reprimand inmate for violation of rules/regulations.

      Investigate unusual odors/sounds.
                                                                          Attachment A
                            NOSE/THROAT AND MOUTH
Smell:
      Investigate unusual odors/sounds.

Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                          6 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications


Use of Mouth:

      Order inmates to enter or leave cells.

      Notify supervisors of potential emergencies or hazards.
      Resolve conflict between inmates verbally.

      Resolve conflict between inmate and staff member verbally.

      Collect evidence for inmate disciplinary hearings (interview, contraband, etc.).

      Respond verbally or in writing to inmate’s written questions.

      Verbally reprimand inmate for violation of rules/regulations.

      Report severe depression or unusual behavior which might indicate self-
      destructive behavior, e.g. suicide.

      Use air pack (Lift Air, Scott, MSA air pack).

                             CARDIO-VASCULAR SYSTEM

      Physically place inmates in, or remove inmates from cells.

      Pat search inmates.

      Administer cardio-pulmonary resuscitation.

      Administer mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.

      Apply first aid to control bleeding.

      Use restraints on inmates in segregation.

      Use restraint devices (waist chains, restraint chair, leg irons, hand cuffs, etc.) to
      control inmate.

      Physically restrain violent inmates.
                                                                              Attachment A

      Kneel to apply restraints.

      Respond to facility escape.

      Patrol tiers, cell areas, corridors and other security areas inside the facility to
      ensure security and observe inmate behavior.

Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                             7 of 8
DOC Policy 20.1.5: Essential Functions of DPSST Certifiable Positions in
                   Correctional Officer Classifications


      Break up fights between two or more inmates.

      Use chemical agents to quell disturbance/riots.

      Confront and control hostile groups.

      Subdue inmates resisting restraint.
      Break up fights between two or more inmates.

      Escort inmates within the facility.

Quantified Exertion tasks:

SUBDUING       CARRYING         RUNNING  PULLING STANDING   WALKING
SITTING        CLIMBING         CRAWLING GRIPPING LIFTING   PUSHING
DEFENDING      TACKLING         HOLDING  JUMPING HOLDING-UP




Effective Date: 06/09/03
                                            8 of 8
