                                             DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                                  Employee Services


         Title:             Fire Safety                                    DOC Policy: 20.6.6
         Effective:         10/25/24                                       Supersedes: 5/1/02
         Applicability:     All employees, contractors, volunteers, and adults in custody
         Directives Cross-Reference:
                            Oregon Uniform Fire Code
                            National Fire Protection Standards
         Attachments:
                            Attachment A DOC Inspection Report - Security, Safety, and Sanitation (CD 316)
                            Attachment B Fire Watch Log

    I.            PURPOSE

                  To establish fire safety standards and training, and evacuation guidelines and procedures to
                  reduce the risk of fire potential and raise the fire safety awareness within the Department
                  of Corrections.


    II.           DEFINITIONS

                  A.      Adult in Custody (AIC): Any person under the supervision of the Department of
                          Corrections who is not on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision status.

                  B.      Department of Corrections Facility: Any institution, facility, or staff office,
                          including the grounds, operated by the Department of Corrections.

                  C.      Emergency Action Monitors: Employees appointed to assist in evacuation
                          procedures and other emergency situations at each Department of Corrections
                          building or location.

                  D.      Fire Safety Plan: A detailed document that covers all aspects of fire safety and fire
                          response for a specific building or property.

                  E.      Fire Tactical Guideline: Working agreement between the local emergency response
                          teams and institutions.

                  F.      Fire Watch Log: Documented temporary measure intended to ensure continuous
                          and systematic surveillance and of a building, or portion of the building, when
                          there is a malfunction in the building fire detection or suppression systems.

                  G.      Functional Unit: Any organizational component within the Department of Corrections

                                                               1
Effective: 10/25/24                                                                                  DOC Policy 20.6.6
                        responsible for the delivery of program services or coordination of program
                        operations.

               H.       Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who
                        reports to either the Director, the Deputy Director, an Assistant Director, or an
                        administrator and has responsibility for delivery of program services or coordination
                        of program operations.


    III.       POLICY

               A.       Functional Unit Managers or Building Managers

                        Functional unit managers or building managers or designee shall:

                        1.    Develop and implement a fire safety plan to ensure that fire safety
                              precautions and emergency evacuation procedures have been established
                              and are viable.

                        2.    Develop, post, and maintain facility, building, or location evacuation
                              diagrams. Posting shall include primary and secondary exit paths and fire
                              extinguisher locations.

               B.       Emergency Action Monitors


                        1.    The functional unit manager or building manager will designate emergency
                              action monitors (EAM) in each work area. No specific number of monitors is
                              required, but a ratio of one emergency action monitor per 50 employees or a
                              minimum of two employees per floor is recommended.

                        2.    Emergency action monitor duties are as follows:

                              a.    Make sure all persons in the area are notified of the emergency alert.

                              b.    Direct co-workers to the closest safe exit.

                              c.    Quickly check restrooms, vaults, or other areas where employees may
                                    fail to hear alarms.

                              d.    Discourage running to exits.

                              e.    Attempt to alleviate fear and panic by providing clear directions. Note:
                                    At no time should an emergency action monitor put themselves at risk
                                    or physical harm while performing these duties.

               C.       Fire Safety Inspections

                        1.    A monthly inspection system shall be developed and maintained to ensure
                                                           2
Effective: 10/25/24                                                                            DOC Policy 20.6.6
                            compliance with fire prevention and fire safety standards (such as, reducing
                            combustible fuel loads, fire suppression equipment availability, emergency
                            lighting is operational, etc.). The weekly use of Department of Corrections
                            Inspection Report – Security, Safety, and Sanitation (CD 316) documents
                            compliance with this requirement. The designated employee at a building or
                            location shall review completed forms and follow up on reported fire safety
                            deficiencies as needed.

                      2.    A designated manager shall ensure that a quarterly inspection system is
                            developed, maintained, and documented to ensure that fire extinguishers are
                            operational. A qualified individual shall do required maintenance (such as,
                            annual maintenance, recharging, hydro-testing, etc.).

                      3.    Sprinkler systems, smoke detectors, smoke control systems, emergency
                            lighting, fire hoses, etc. shall be inspected, replaced, and maintained in
                            accordance with time frames per the Oregon Uniform Fire Code and the State
                            Fire Marshal. All inspections and maintenance shall be documented.

                      4.    All non-compliant fire safety issues shall be corrected as soon as possible.

               D.     Fire Safety Training

                      1.    All employees, contractors, and volunteers shall be familiar with the
                            requirements of the fire safety plan.

                      2.    All employees, contractors, and volunteers shall be trained on fire drills and
                            evacuation procedures.

                      3.    Adults in custody shall be made familiar with fire drill and evacuation
                            procedures.

                      4.    All employees shall be trained prior to assignment or duties and every six
                            months thereafter on the use of fire suppression equipment, general fire
                            prevention, and the evacuation process for their work area(s).

               E.     Fire Drills and Evacuation

                      1.    In all occupied buildings and locations an unannounced fire drill shall be
                            scheduled, conducted, documented, and evaluated in each occupied area
                            and on each shift every 90 days to ensure familiarity with the evacuation
                            process and fire safety plan. The type of exercise performed (tabletop or live
                            evacuation (will be included in the documentation.

                      2.    All locations housing adults in custody shall ensure that the adults in custody
                            shall be released from locked areas during an emergency evacuation, as
                            necessary. A back-up system of release shall be in place in case of failure of
                            primary release system.

                      3.    In locations that are primarily an office environment or that do not house

                                                         3
Effective: 10/25/24                                                                           DOC Policy 20.6.6
                            adults in custody (for example, Department of Corrections Headquarters,
                            Central Distribution Center, etc.), an unannounced fire drill shall be
                            scheduled, conducted, documented, and evaluated annually at a minimum.


               F.     Fire Safety Plan

                      Each functional unit and facility shall have a written plan that includes Fire Safety,
                      Emergency Response, and Tactical Planning.

                      1.    Fire Safety Plan: The availability of fire protection equipment and locations
                            throughout the facility.

                            a.     A fire safety training plan for employees, contractors, volunteers, and
                                   adults in custody.

                            b.     A procedure on how fire drills are to be completed, monitored, and
                                   evaluated, including fire drill time frames. This procedure will also detail
                                   locations where employees, contractors, volunteers, and adults in
                                   custody are to gather during an evacuation.

                            c.     A procedure for adults in custody who may need assistance in the event
                                   of an emergency evacuation.

                            d.     A detailed description of fire safety inspections (for example, fire
                                   extinguishers, sprinkler systems, fire hoses, etc.).

                            e.     Fire safety plan approvals and review dates.

                            f.     Fire Watch Log: Individuals will conduct regular patrols for purpose of
                                   identifying and controlling fire hazards, detecting early signs of fire,
                                   activating alarms, and fire response systems in the event of a fire and will
                                   document this information in a fire watch log.

                      2.    Fire Department Response: Joint planning shall exist between the
                            department facilities and the local fire department for fire emergencies.

                            a.     A fire department response plan is required for all department facilities.

                            b.     The fire department response plan shall be reviewed annually and
                                   updated in collaboration with designated department safety leadership,
                                   the local fire department, and State Fire Marshal, and approved by the
                                   functional unit manager.

                            c.     The fire department response plan shall be located in the department
                                   directive manual immediately behind this policy.

                      3.    Fire Tactical Planning: A component of the Emergency Management System.

                                                           4
Effective: 10/25/24                                                                              DOC Policy 20.6.6
                            Firefighters will utilize these drawings to establish the best strategies to
                            manage and combat the fire or emergency situation.

                            a.     Fire tactical guideline is required for all department facilities housing
                                   adults in custody. The guideline shall be reviewed annually and updated
                                   with assistance from the local fire department and State Fire Marshal.

                            b.     Reporting procedure.

                            c.     Emergency response team arrival instructions.

                            d.     Maps of staging areas, fire hydrants, water supplies, target hazards, etc.

    IV.        IMPLEMENTATION

               Each functional unit or building manager or designee will create and implement a fire
               safety plan and fire department response plan and, if housing adults in custody, a fire
               tactical guideline as set forth in this policy.



    Certified: _signature on file_ ____________
    Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


    Approved: _signature on file_______________
    Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




                                                          5
Effective: 10/25/24                                                                           DOC Policy 20.6.6
                                                                                   Attachment A
                                      Department of Corrections
                           Inspection Report - Security, Safety, and Sanitation



 Location:                              Reviewer: _____________________________________
                                                   (Name)                   (Title)

 This is a weekly report. Assigned area will be inspected each watch by the designated employee
 and the employee’s legible initials will be noted in the appropriate boxes below. See page 2 for
 details of inspection areas.


 This form will begin on the first calendar day of the month and shall be sent to the reviewer after
 the third shift inspection on the last day of the month is made.


 Any security, safety, or sanitation problems discovered will be reported immediately to the
 supervisor and corrected. When applicable a work order will be prepared and forwarded to the
 appropriate supervisor.

 Inspection Verification            Month:                               Year:

                    Initial Each Entry
    WEEK l              SUN       MON  TUE WED   THUR  FRI   SAT
           SHIFT         1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
    INSPECTION INITIAL
    WEEK 2             SUN    MON   TUE   WED   THUR  FRI                                  SAT
          SHIFT         1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2                                3 1 2 3
    INSPECTION INITIAL
    WEEK3                   SUN    MON   TUE   WED   THUR  FRI   SAT
          SHIFT              1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
    INSPECTION INITIAL
    WEEK4              SUN    MON   TUE   WED   THUR  FRI   SAT
          SHIFT         1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
    INSPECTION INITIAL
    END OF MONTH       SUN     MON   TUE     WED    THUR   FRI                             SAT
           SHIFT        1  2 3 1 2 3  1  2 3 1  2 3  1 2 3  1 2                          3 1 2 3
    INSPECTION INITIAL




                                                  1
DOC Policy 20.6.6 Fire Safety                                             CD 316 (Last reviewed 8/2024)
Comments:




 OVERVIEW

 Safety, sanitation, and security inspections are critical to basic corrections practices. They
 ensure that regular reviews are performed in areas that may get overlooked during
 everyday operations. The completion of this form (CD316) also ensures that the Department
 of Corrections will be able to provide documentation of our monthly inspection system to
 outside agencies such as OSHA in accordance with the department’s policy on Fire Safety
 (DOC policy 20.6.6).


                          Your post will be inspected in these areas:

  SECURITY                      SAFETY                          SANITATION
  Keys *                        Evacuation Chart                Grounds
  Locks                         Ventilation                     Floors
  Padlocks                      Fire Exits and Doors Clear      Furniture
  Locking Devices               Fire Extinguishers              Fixtures
  Tool Storage *                Chemicals and Flammable         Walls
                                Items stored properly
  Doors                         Emergency Lighting              Windows
                                Operational
  Fences                        First Aid Kit Seal Intact      Receptacles
  Utility Corridors             Contamination Kit Stocked      Vents
  Firearms/Ammunition*          Industrial Safety Regulations  Elevators
  (Clean and in working         Adhered To
  condition)
  Fire Escapes                  PREA Doorbells                 Stairs
  Fire Hazards                                                 Handrails
  Roofs                                                        Toilets
  Other Security Features                                      Sinks
  Count Keys, comparing to                                     Urinals
  number on tag
  Post Orders Intact                                           Noxious Odors
  Procedure Manuals Intact
 * This form does not replace tool, key, or ammunition inventory

 Completed CD-316 forms shall be retained for three years and then destroyed.
 Department of Corrections, Special Schedule ODOC 2010-0003.


                                                 2
DOC Policy 20.6.6 Fire Safety                                           CD 316 (Last reviewed 8/2024)
                                                                                   Attachment B
                                  FIRE WATCH LOG
     The assigned employee will sign the tier check log each time a tier check is completed. The
     time from the completion of the previous walk to the beginning of the next walk will not
     exceed 15 minutes.

Start time          Employee Signature              End Time                  Comments




                                                                                          Updated 8/2024
