                                    DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                         Human Resources

                      Employee Time Reporting and Payroll
 Title:                                                                DOC Policy: 20.5.11
                      Process
 Effective:           2/1/13                                           Supersedes: 7/15/98
                   All employees, unless otherwise provided for in an applicable collective
 Applicability:
                   bargaining agreement
 Directives Cross-Reference: Oregon State Payroll System Manual; Oregon Accounting
 Manual, Chapter 45; Payroll; DAS State Policy 20.005.10, Pay Practices; DAS State Policy
 20.005.20, Fair Labor Standards Act; DAS State Policy 60.000.01, Sick Leave with Pay; DAS
 State Policy 60.000.05, Vacation Leave; AFSCME and AOCE, Bargaining Agreements;
 Oregon Bureau of Labor & Industries Handbook of Wage & Hour Laws; and Oregon
 Secretary of State Archives Division, OAR 166-300
 Attachments:
        Attachment 1 – Early Paycheck Release Form
        Attachment 2 – Time Sheet Instructions
        Attachment 3 – Overtime Authorization (CD 3)
        Attachment 4 – Emergency Pay Advance Request

I.        PURPOSE

          To provide uniform payroll procedures conforming to the regulations and format set forth by
          Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Oregon Statewide Payroll Services, and with the
          laws, rules, policies, and procedures referenced above.

II.       POLICY

          A.    The Department of Corrections utilizes the Oregon Statewide Payroll Application (OSPA),
                managed by the Department of Administrative Services, to process the monthly payroll in
                accordance with the policies, procedures and laws referenced above.

          B.    Payday Schedule: Employees are paid on a monthly basis with payday occurring on the
                first day of each month. If the first day falls on a weekend or holiday, paychecks will be
                available the last working day of the previous month. The only exception is in January
                when checks are released the first workday of January to avoid paying thirteen months of
                wages in a year.

                1.   Any additional payments (i.e., differentials, overtime and on call pay) for the 1st to
                     15th of the month are also paid on the first of the new month. A supplemental payroll
                     is paid approximately mid-month for the previous month to account for additional pay
                     and adjustments. A supplemental payday schedule is distributed annually in
                     December for the following calendar year and is available upon request from the
                     Payroll Unit.

                2.   The Payroll Unit uses various means such as next day mail delivery, shuttle service,
                     or department mail courier to have paychecks/ pay stubs delivered to each functional
                     unit the day before payday.

                     a. It is the responsibility of each functional unit to safeguard the paychecks and to


Effective 2/1/13                             Page 1 of 7                                   Policy 20.5.11
                      distribute them to employees beginning at 8:00 a.m. on payday. However, 24-
                      hour institutions may release paychecks/pay stubs earlier on payday to night shift
                      employees if it can be accommodated, but no earlier than 12:01 a.m. on payday.

                   b. Employees not scheduled to work on payday may receive their paycheck one
                      day prior to payday if the checks are available and if the employees sign the
                      “Request for Early Release of Payroll Check” OSPS.99.16 form (Attachment 1)
                      indicating they will not cash check until payday.

              3.   All paychecks/pay stubs not picked up by payees within five workdays after payday
                   shall be returned to the Payroll Unit unless employee has made other arrangements
                   for pickup or the functional unit verifies employee is entitled to the payment before
                   distribution.

              4.   Paycheck/pay stubs issued to employees who have terminated shall be returned to
                   the Payroll Unit. The Payroll Unit will mail checks to the last address in the personnel
                   system. All check stubs will be kept for six months from date of issue. If check stubs
                   are not picked up within six months, they will be shredded. Note: Timesheet
                   instructions and reporting monthly attendance & pay can be found in Attachment 2.

       C.     Finalization, Correction, and Retention of Final Timesheets

              1.   The Payroll Unit is the holder of the final, official timesheet. This timesheet is the
                   documented record of time worked and leave taken. In the event of an audit or wage
                   claim, the official timesheet held in the Payroll Unit will be used.

              2.   The timesheet provided approximately on the 15th of each month is a preliminary
                   timesheet. This timesheet is a working copy and a signature is not required. The
                   employee and manager shall review the timesheet and agree upon any corrections
                   and/or changes to be made.

              3.   The timesheet received at the end of each month is the final timesheet. The
                   timesheet shall be signed and dated by both the employee and the manager. The
                   final timesheet is kept on file with the Payroll Unit in accordance with the
                   department’s authorized retention schedule established in accordance with OAR
                   166-300.

              4.   If there are changes, corrections, or adjustments to be made, they are to be
                   documented on the original final timesheet. The changes shall be initialed and dated
                   by the employee and manager.

       D.     Notification of Leave Without Pay (LWOP) and other non-paid time

              1.   Supervisors/timekeepers shall report LWOP to the Payroll Unit in a timely manner to
                   prevent overpayments to employees. LWOP information needs to reach the Payroll
                   Unit by payroll cutoff date, which is normally approximately ten work days prior to
                   month end.

              2.   Supervisors/timekeepers shall use the preliminary timesheet for reporting LWOP;
                   and any additional non-paid time. The information shall be conveyed by telephone
                   or fax if it is being communicated on the final day of payroll cutoff. The information
                   shall be conveyed no later than noon on the final day of payroll cutoff.


Effective 2/1/13                            Page 2 of 7                                    Policy 20.5.11
              3.   LWOP occurring after the cutoff shall be faxed or telephoned to the Payroll Unit on a
                   daily basis so that the paychecks can be canceled and reissued in the correct
                   amount. Note: All LWOP shall be reported including employees on worker’s
                   compensation claim, military leave or on Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave.

       E.     Overtime Authorization Form (CD 3), Attachment 3

              1.   Overtime entries on the time sheets shall be supported by an Overtime Authorization
                   form initiated and signed by the responsible supervisor and signed by the functional
                   unit manager or designee. Each overtime occurrence shall be signed by both the
                   employee and supervisor on the form. Criteria for overtime pay is contained in DAS
                   State Policy 20.005.20, DOC Policy 20.2.4 and in applicable labor agreements.

              2.   Security Units submitting payroll data via RFMS provide overtime authorizations
                   generated by the computer system, not form CD3.

              3.   Approved overtime authorizations shall be received by the Payroll Unit with all
                   timesheets reporting overtime. Overtime hours per timesheet that are not supported
                   by an authorization are subject to reversal if follow-up inquiry does not acquire the
                   authorization.

              4.   All records pertaining to payroll and supporting documentation will be retained in
                   accordance with the department’s authorized retention schedule established in
                   accordance with OAR 166-300.

       F.     Work Out-of-Class Pay Authorizations

              1.   Authorization for compensation for work out-of-class shall be initiated by the
                   responsible supervisor and signed by the functional unit manager or designee, and
                   shall be forwarded to the unit’s human resources manager. Criteria for out-of-class
                   pay are contained in DAS State Policy 20.005.10 “Pay Practices,” DOC Policy 20.2.2,
                   and in applicable labor agreements.

              2.   The Personnel Records Unit will enter the approved work out of class into the state
                   personnel database to be accessed by the payroll system for payment. A copy of the
                   authorization shall be sent to the Payroll Unit.

              3.   The Payroll Unit will determine if there are any retroactive adjustments to be made
                   and will enter the adjustments into the payroll system for payment on the next
                   regularly scheduled payday.

       G.     Salary Advances

              1.   Except as stipulated in labor union contracts, salary advances shall be made only in
                   emergency situations as defined by DAS Oregon Accounting Manual, 45.25.00PO
                   and 45.25.00PR. OAM form 75.45.02.FO, Request For Payroll Advance, Attachment
                   4, shall be used to make the request including explaining the emergency situation,
                   and shall be approved by the employee’s functional unit manager or his/her designee
                   before being submitted to Payroll Unit for processing.

              2.   The maximum salary advance allowed is 60% of gross pay earned up to the date of

Effective 2/1/13                           Page 3 of 7                                   Policy 20.5.11
                   request, less any known garnishments, if any.

              3.   The Payroll Manager or appointed designee is the approving authority. Additional
                   information or supporting documentation may be required before the request can be
                   approved.

              4.   Approved requests may be faxed to the Payroll Unit to expedite the payment. If the
                   employee works at a unit located outside of the Salem area and needs to receive the
                   check as soon as possible, he/she may request to have it expedited and to be mailed
                   by next day delivery. Otherwise, advance checks are issued by OSPS in the
                   afternoon on the day after requests are received in the Payroll Unit, excluding
                   Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, and are delivered to Payroll Unit by 4:30 p.m. that
                   day. Each check is then sent by regular mail, or by shuttle if available, to the
                   employee’s work unit if located outside of Salem area. Salem area employees may
                   pick up the pay advance at their payroll office or have it delivered to their work unit.

              5.   If any advance is issued during the last five work days of a month, the employee’s
                   following first of the month paycheck shall be canceled and reissued to account for
                   the salary advance deduction. If pay is by direct deposit to the employee’s bank
                   account and that deposit cannot be adjusted, the employee shall repay the advance
                   by personal check, cashier’s check, or money order within ten days after payday,
                   unless a collective bargaining agreement mandates otherwise.

       H.     Transfer of Vacation, Sick Leave, and Compensatory Time

              1.   When an employee transfers to another unit within the department, unused vacation
                   and sick leave balances will transfer with the employee. Compensatory time balance
                   will be paid by the prior unit in the month of transfer unless the gaining functional unit
                   manager approves the transfer of compensatory time.

              2.   DAS State Policy 60.000.01, Sick Leave with Pay and 60.000.05, Vacation Leave
                   shall be followed when employee transfers to another state agency or leaves state
                   service, except as otherwise provided by applicable labor agreements. All accrued
                   compensatory time shall be paid on the separation date.

       I.     Notification of Employee Resignation or Termination

               Both the Human Resource manager and the Payroll specialist for the reporting functional
               unit shall be notified in advance of each employee termination so the final paycheck can
               be processed in compliance with Oregon law. The completed final timesheet for the
               terminating employee shall be submitted to the Payroll Unit as soon as possible to
               expedite the final paycheck.

       J.     Final Paychecks for Terminations/Resignations

              1.   When an employer terminates employee, or if termination is by mutual agreement,
                   the final check shall be paid not later than the end of the first business day after
                   termination, ORS 652.140(1).

              2.   When an employee quits without notice, the final paycheck is due within five days
                   excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, except if regular payday occurs within
                   the five day period, then the employee shall receive all wages due at that time, ORS


Effective 2/1/13                            Page 4 of 7                                      Policy 20.5.11
                   652.140(2).

              3.   If employee gives 48 hours or more notice of resignation, the final paycheck is due
                   on the final day worked, except if the final day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or holiday,
                   then paycheck is due not later than the end of the next business day, ORS
                   652.140(2)(3).

              4.   Employee may request the final paycheck be mailed to a designated address and
                   employer shall comply, ORS 652.140(4).

              5.   Employer shall comply with the above referenced laws and cannot hold back an
                   employee’s final paycheck until property is returned such as uniforms, keys,
                   identification badge, etc.

       K.     Work-Site Monthly Attendance Records

              1.   Supervisors shall keep attendance records at the work site. The following information
                   shall be recorded for each employee. The Employee Monthly Timesheet can be used
                   for this purpose, except requirement b below is not captured on the form and will
                   need to be recorded by another means.

                   a. Employee name and Employee Identification Number;
                   b. Work schedule and shift, including time and day the work schedule begins and
                      days off;
                   c. Daily hours worked for each employee subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act
                      (FLSA);
                   d. Overtime hours worked each day;
                   e. Leave taken (with or without pay);
                   f. Holiday hours worked; and
                   g. All other additional pay earned by each employee.

              2.   These records shall be available for inspection by Human Resources Division
                   Administrator or designee and by auditors.

              3.   All records pertaining to payroll and supporting documentation will be retained in
                   accordance with the department’s authorized retention schedule established in
                   accordance with OAR 166-300.

       L.     Payroll Unit Records: The Payroll Unit will keep records showing each employee’s

              1.   Name, Employee Identification Number and social security number;

              2.   Rate(s) of pay;

              3.   Additional earnings for each pay period, including shift differential, overtime
                   compensation, holiday pay, special duty pay, special qualification pay, work out-of-
                   class pay, etc.;

              4.   Deductions from wages paid each pay period;

              5.   Total wages paid each pay period;



Effective 2/1/13                           Page 5 of 7                                    Policy 20.5.11
              6.   Date of payment and pay period covered by payment;

              7.   Signed authorization for each voluntary deduction; and

              8.   Monthly attendance, including accrued balances for vacation, sick leave, and
                   compensatory time. For employees subject to FLSA, the records must show hours
                   worked each day and total hours worked each week.

              The retention period for the above records shall comply with OAR 166-300. All of the
              above records, except subsection 7 and 8, are on microfiche. Documents for subsection
              7 are retained for two years after they are replaced and for five years after employee
              terminates. Documents for subsection 8 are retained for four years.

       M.     Recoupment of Overpayments: Unless otherwise provided in applicable labor
              agreements, overpayment to employees shall be recouped as follows:

              1.   When an overpayment occurs, the following will occur:

                   a.   The payroll office will perform an overpayment calculation to determine the
                        actual overpayment.

                   b.   The pre-calculated overpayment amount and supporting documentation will be
                        sent to the appropriate HR Manager.

                   c.   The HR Manager will notify the employee of the matter of overpayment.

                   d.   If appropriate, the employee shall work with their Payroll technician to establish
                        a repayment agreement.

              2.   If the net amount overpaid is less than 10% of the employee’s monthly base salary,
                   the entire amount will be deducted from the employee’s next paycheck. Otherwise,
                   the employee will have the opportunity to discuss the matter and reach agreement
                   with their payroll technician on a repayment agreement. If the employee does not
                   enter into such discussion, or if an agreement is not be reached, then the
                   overpayment shall be repaid as follows:

                   a.     If the net amount overpaid exceeds 10% of the employee’s monthly base
                        salary, it will be deducted in monthly installments of 10% of the employee’s
                        monthly base salary.

              3.   If an employee leaves department employment prior to full recovery of the
                   overpayment, the balance owing shall be deducted from the employee’s final check.
                   If this does not complete the repayment, a subsequent repayment schedule shall be
                   established with the employee, or the matter may be pursued through appropriate
                   legal channels.

IV.    IMPLEMENTATION

       This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.


Certified: ____signature on file________________


Effective 2/1/13                           Page 6 of 7                                    Policy 20.5.11
Birdie Worley, Rules Coordinator


Approved: ____signature on file_______________
Mitch Morrow, Deputy Director




Effective 2/1/13                      Page 7 of 7   Policy 20.5.11
