                           DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                Human Resources

 Title:         Personal Protective Equipment                DOC Policy: 20.6.15
 Supersedes: None
 Applicability: All employees, volunteers, and contract service providers
 Directive Cross - Reference: OAR437, Division 2, Subdivision I, Personal
                Protective Equipment (432-002-0120 through 140 and 1910.132
                through .140, Respiratory Protection, (1910.134) is addressed in
                DOC Policy 20.6.9)

I.     PURPOSE
       To ensure that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for eyes, face, head,
       extremities, and/or other body areas, is identified, provided, properly used, and
       maintained in a safe, sanitary, and reliable condition.

II.    DEFINITIONS

       A.    Affected Employee: An employee who is required to wear PPE to safely
             perform the duties of his/her job function.

       B.    American National Standards Institute (ANSI): Nonprofit private
             organization dedicated to the establishment of standards and assessment
             systems for the safety of workers.

       C.    Hazards: Worksite hazards include but are not limited to, mechanical
             hazards, chemical hazards, radiological hazards, irritants, electrical
             hazards, work environment hazards, environmental hazards, and/or any
             other possible health or safety hazards.

       D.    Job Hazard Analysis (JHA): A walk through survey completed and
             documented by individuals knowledgeable of the work being performed and
             knowledgeable of PPE selection for all work areas or sites to determine
             appropriate PPE to mitigate worksite hazards.

       E.    Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Equipment designed to protect
             employees from the risk of injury by creating a barrier against workplace
             hazards.

III.   POLICY

       A.    Protective equipment shall be provided wherever it is necessary to protect
             affected employees from the hazards of the work environment, the job
             process, or work-site configuration. Note: Whenever it is feasible or more
             cost effective engineering, administrative controls, or good work practices
             should be used to mitigate worksite hazards, PPE should be used in
             conjunction with these controls to ensure the safety and health of
             employees.


Effective Date: 08/20/02             1 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment


      B.    A written Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) shall be completed for all work areas
            (Attachment A), including inmate work crew sites, to determine the need for
            PPE and to help in selecting the proper PPE as related to the work or tasks
            performed. JHA's that are provided by host agencies and/or businesses
            may be used if reviewed and are signed off as being complete and adequate
            for the work being performed.

      C.    General Policy Requirements

            1.    PPE Shall be:

                  a.       Provided by the Department of Corrections. Note: PPE
                           supplied by a host agency or business (inmate work crews)
                           shall be approved by the assigned safety manager of the
                           workcrew unit.

                  b.       Of safe design and construction, and appropriate for the work
                           to be performed.

                  c.       Stored in designated areas only.

                  d.       Immediately removed from service if defective.

            2.    Employees, visitors, contractors, or others passing through an
                  identified PPE hazard area shall wear the appropriate PPE.

            3.    Contractors performing work for the Department of Corrections shall
                  be required to meet or exceed DOC PPE requirements.

            4.    Electricians and/or electrician's helpers, etc., shall use and maintain
                  the appropriate PPE designed for the type of work being performed.

            5.    Employees who supervise inmates performing jobs or work tasks are
                  exposed to the same risks of the job and shall wear the appropriate
                  PPE as determined by the JHA.

            6.    Work Clothes

                  a.       Loose sleeves, ties, lapels, cuffs, or other loose fitting clothes
                           shall not be worn if they might come in contact with power
                           driven machines.

                  b.       Wristwatches, rings, earrings, or other jewelry shall not be
                           worn if they can come in contact with power driven machines
                           or electrical circuitry.



Effective Date: 08/20/02              2 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment

            7.    Eye and Face Protection

                  a.       Affected employees shall use appropriate eye or face
                           protection when exposed to hazards from flying particles,
                           molten metal, liquid chemicals, acids or caustic liquids,
                           chemical gases or vapors, or potentially injurious light
                           radiation.

                  b.       Eye and face protection shall conform to ANSI Z87.1-1989
                           “American National Standard Practices for Occupational and
                           Educational Eye and Face Protection.”

                  c.       Safety eye wear and face protection shall have
                           documentation, e.g., the JHA, and/or labeling to verify
                           appropriateness for protection against the associated
                           hazard(s).

            8.    Hand Protection

                  a.       Affected employees shall use the appropriate hand protection
                           when hands are exposed to hazards such as those from skin
                           absorption of harmful substances, severe cuts or lacerations,
                           severe abrasions, punctures, chemical burns, thermal burns,
                           and harmful temperature extremes.

                  b.       There are no ANSI standards for gloves; therefore, a selection
                           must be based on the performance characteristics of the
                           glove in relation to the tasks to be performed.

                  c.       Persons whose hands are exposed to moving parts in which
                           they could get caught shall not wear gloves.

            9.    Head Protection

                  a.       Affected employees shall wear protective helmets/hardhats
                           when working in areas where there is the potential for injury
                           to the head from falling objects or low clearance.

                  b.       Head protection shall conform to ANSI Z89.1-1986 “American
                           National Standard for Personal Protection – Protective
                           Headwear for Industrial Workers – Requirements.”

                  c.       Bump hats and/or soft caps may be worn in areas where a
                           hazard analysis has demonstrated they provide adequate
                           protection for associated hazards.

            10.   Foot Protection


Effective Date: 08/20/02             3 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment


                  a.       Employees shall wear protective footwear when working in
                           areas where there is a danger of foot injuries due to falling or
                           slipping, rolling objects, objects piercing the sole, and/or
                           where employees feet are exposed to electrical hazards.

                  b.       Foot protection shall conform to ANSI Z41-1991 “American
                           National Standard for Personal Protection – Protective
                           Footwear.”

            11.   Hearing Protection

                  a.       Affected employees shall wear hearing protection when it has
                           been determined through appropriate testing that hearing
                           protection is required. Note: If analysis and testing results
                           indicate that a hearing conservation program is required by
                           OR-OHSA OAR 437, Division 2, Subdivision G, Occupational
                           Noise Exposure (1910.95), a hearing conservation program
                           shall be implemented.

                  b.       Hearing protection shall be worn in posted areas.

            12.   Fall Protection

                  a.       Employees shall be protected from fall hazards when working
                           on unguarded surfaces more than 10 feet above a lower level
                           or at any height above dangerous equipment.

                  b.       Lifelines, body belts/harnesses, and lanyards shall only be
                           used for employee safeguarding.

                  c.       Employees who are required to use fall arrest/protection
                           systems must be trained on proper techniques.

                  d.       Fall arrest/protection equipment shall be removed from
                           service if it shows signs of wear, abuse, or has been used in
                           stopping a person from falling.

                  e.       The point of attachment for lifelines shall be capable of
                           supporting a minimum dead weight of 5,000 pounds.

                  f.       Personal fall arrest systems shall be rigged so that an
                           employee can neither free fall more than six feet nor contact
                           any lower level.

                  g.       Personal fall restraint systems shall be rigged so that an
                           employee cannot free fall more than two feet.


Effective Date: 08/20/02              4 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment


                  h.       All lifelines, harnesses, and lanyards shall meet or exceed
                           current standards for construction.

                  i.       Supervisor shall periodically inspect all fall protection
                           equipment.

                  j.       Employees shall inspect their harnesses, lifelines, and
                           lanyards before each day of use.

      D.    All employees shall:

            1.    Follow the requirements of this policy.

            2.    Report to work-sites with identified and proper PPE.

            3.    Wear PPE as required.

            4.    Inspect and test any PPE at the beginning of each shift and
                  frequently while being worn to ensure its ability to protect from
                  potential hazards.

            5.    Attend required training sessions.

            6.    Care for, clean, and maintain PPE as required.

            7.    Inform the supervisor of the need to repair or replace PPE.

      E.    Supervisors shall:

            1.    Complete a JHA for all work areas or sites, seeking assistance of the
                  assigned safety manager if needed. Supervisor will provide copies
                  of all JHA's to the assigned safety manager.

            2.    Ensure that all employees under their supervision are supplied,
                  properly fitted, and trained in the proper use, maintenance,
                  inspection, and care of PPE that is required to safely perform the
                  duties of their work assignment.

            3.    Ensure that employees demonstrate skills necessary to don, doff,
                  use, inspect, and maintain assigned PPE.

            4.    Ensure that contractors performing work for the department meet or
                  exceed the standards as set in this policy.

            5.    Provide safe and proper storage areas for their employees PPE.



Effective Date: 08/20/02             5 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment

            6.    Notify the assigned safety manager when new hazards are
                  introduced or when processes are added or changed necessitating
                  a new or revised JHA.

            7.    Ensure that defective or damaged PPE is immediately replaced.

            8.    Periodically inspect the usage, effectiveness, and maintenance of
                  PPE furnished to employees.

      F.    Safety Managers shall

            1.    Assist worksite supervisors in the completion of a JHA for all work
                  areas or sites.

            2.    Maintain current file of JHA's provided by worksite supervisor.

            3.    Annually review, monitor, and audit this standard for compliance and
                  continual    safety   improvement        and    notify   appropriate
                  supervisors/managers of any compliance concerns.

            4.    Provide technical assistance to supervisors on the proper use, care,
                  cleaning and training of approved PPE.

            5.    Provide guidance to supervisors for the selection and purchase of
                  approved PPE.

            6.    Re-evaluate the suitability of previously selected PPE.

      G.    Training

            1.    Any employee required to wear PPE shall receive training in the
                  following:

                  a.       When PPE is needed to be worn.

                  b.       What PPE is necessary.

                  c.       How to properly don, doff, adjust, and wear PPE.

                  d.       The limitations of PPE.

                  e.       The proper care, maintenance, inspection procedures, useful
                           life, and disposal of the PPE.

            2.    Retraining shall be required whenever any of the following situations
                  occur:



Effective Date: 08/20/02             6 of 7
DOC Policy: 20.6.15        Personal Protective Equipment

                   a.      Changes in the workplace render the previous training
                           obsolete; or

                   b.      Changes in the types of PPE to be used render the previous
                           training obsolete; or

                   c.      The affected employee’s knowledge or use of assigned PPE
                           indicate that the employee has not retained the requisite
                           understanding or skill associated with the assigned PPE.

            3.     All training provided to employees on the proper use, maintenance,
                   and care of assigned PPE shall be documented. Documentation
                   shall be maintained by the supervisor with copies forwarded to
                   Human Resources Training section.

IV.   IMPLEMENTATION

      This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.




Effective Date: 08/20/02             7 of 7
                                  DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS Attachment A
                                     JOB HAZARD ANALYSIS
 Analysis Conducted by:                                              Date:

 Project Location:                                                   Department:
 Project or Task:                                                    Host Agency:
 Equipment and Tool list:

 Job Description:
                        LIST THE SPECIFIC HAZARD NOTED IN THE BOXES BELOW:
                        HEAD   EYES/FACE    SKIN   HAND   FOOT    HEARING    OTHER   PPE: (minimum requirement)
 FALL/TRIP/SLIP
          Description
 ENTRAPMENT
          Description
 NOISE
          Description
 DUST/VAPOR/FUMES
          Description
 ABSORPTION
          Description
 ELECTRICAL
          Description
 CHEMICAL
          Description
 WORKING SURFACE
          Description
 EQUIPMENT
          Description
 EXPOSURE
          Description


          Description



          Description


                                           CHEMICALS AND PRODUCTS
 CHEMICALS/PRODUCTS BEING USED YES                 NO                         PPE                     MSDS
                IF YES LIST                               Y   N                                       Y   N
 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 5.

NOTES:




Signature:                                                                   Date:

                                                                                         CD 1414 (8/02)
