                                       DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                              Institutions

 Title:                Public Records Management                   DOC Policy: 10.1.9
 Effective:            8/5/22                                      Supersedes: 6/1/19
 Applicability:        All employees and functional units
 Directives Cross-Reference:
         DAS Statewide Policy 107-001-020
         Release of Public Records OAR 291-037
         DOC Policy: Acceptable Use of Electronic Information 60.1.1
                    Electronic Mail, Internet Usage, and Computer Investigation 60.4.1
 Attachments:          Social Media Plan/
 Links: https://secure.sos.state.or.us/oard/displayDivisionRules.action?selectedDivision=591

          http://sos.oregon.gov/archives/Documents/recordsmgmt/sched/schedule-corrections.pdf



I. PURPOSE
   The purpose of this policy is to establish a public records management policy for the Department
   of Corrections (DOC) as required by DAS statewide Policy 107-001-020 and ORS 192.018.

   Background: ORS 192.018 requires every state agency to have a “written policy that sets forth
   the agency’s use, retention and ownership of public records” so that public records are
   maintained and managed appropriately across the enterprise of state government, from the
   time of creation of a public record to the time of final disposition of the public record.
   Agencies are required to seek review and approval from the State Archivist, in accordance with
   ORS 192.018, prior to adopting an internal public records management policy.
   Agencies must review and, if necessary, update their public records management policy at
   least once per biennium to reflect changes in applicable laws, policies, and business needs, and
   to ensure ongoing access to agency records. Any updates or revisions must be submitted for
   review and approval by the State Archivist according to ORS 192.018, prior to adoption.

   Special Situations:
   Retained records may be subject to public disclosure upon request, even if their retention was
   not required by law. The statutes requiring public disclosure of records apply more broadly
   than the statutes requiring records to be retained.
   Agencies are not required to create public records that would not otherwise exist.



Effective     8/5/22                         Page 1 of 8                     Policy 10.1.9
   Only the official copy of a public record must be retained. Stock of publications are not public
   records and may be preserved for convenience or destroyed.

II. DEFINITIONS
   A. Authorized Retention Schedule: Either a General Schedule published by the State Archivist
      in the OAR in which certain common public records are described or listed by title and a
      retention period is established for each; or a Special Schedule approved by the State
      Archivist for the public records of a specific agency.
   B. Cloud-computing: Has the meaning established in the National Institute of Standards and
      Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-145.
   C. Custodian: A public body mandated, directly or indirectly, to create, maintain, care for or
      control a public record. "Custodian" does not include a public body that has custody of a
      public record as an agent of another public body that is the custodian, unless the public
      record is not otherwise available.
   D. Functional Unit Manager: Any person within the Department of Corrections who reports to
      the Director, an Assistant Director, or an Administrator and has responsibility for delivery of
      program services or coordination of program operations. In a correctional setting, the
      functional unit manager or designee is the superintendent.
   E. Instant Messaging: Real-time text communications between or among computers or mobile
      devices over the internet or functionally similar communications networks.
   F. Metadata: Data that provides information about other data. Metadata assists in resource
      discovery by allowing resources to be found by relevant criteria, identifying resources,
      bringing similar resources together, distinguishing dissimilar resources and giving location
      information.
   G. Public Record: Has the meaning established in ORS 192.005. In general, it refers to
      information that is prepared, owned, used, or retained by a state agency or political
      subdivision; relates to an activity, transaction or function of a state agency or political
      subdivision; and is necessary to satisfy the fiscal, legal, administrative, or historical policies,
      requirements or needs of the state agency or political subdivision. Refer to the Secretary of
      State’s       guide       for      determination            of      a        public        record:
      https://sos.oregon.gov/archives/Documents/recordsmgmt/rc/oregon-public-records-law-
      citations.pdf
   H. Social Media: Web-based and mobile communication technologies that allow the creation
      and exchange of user-generated content such as comments or responsive postings.
      Examples of social media include but are not limited to Twitter, Flickr, blogging sites,
      Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram.
   I. Text Messaging: Messages exchanged between fixed-line phones or mobile phones and fixed
      or portable devices over a network. Excluded from the definition of text messages are
      electronic mail (email) communications, whether such messages are exchanged among or


Effective   8/5/22                          Page 2 of 8                           Policy 10.1.9
       between official state government email accounts or email accounts maintained by private
       entities.
   J. Unified Communications: A service of IBM; the packaged services or user profiles available
      to agencies (e.g., instant messaging, video conferencing, telephony, call management and
      call control across multiple systems, etc.). Also known as IBM Unified Communications.
III. POLICY
   A. General Information
       The goal of this policy is to ensure public records are managed and maintained appropriately
       within the department and consistently across the enterprise of state government.
       This Department of Corrections Public Records Management Policy, adopted according to
       the requirements of DAS Statewide Policy 107-011-020 and ORS 192.018, addresses the
       following components:
       1.     Public Records Maintenance
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities
       3.     Education and Training
       4.     Access and Ownership
       5.     Integrity
       6.     Retention, Generally
       7.     Storage and Retrieval
       8.     Public Records Requests
       9.     Disposition and Destruction of Public Records
   B. Compliance
       The department will develop and implement internal processes and procedures that support
       compliance, deter abuse, and detect violations of this policy.

IV. POLICY GUIDELINES

   A. Public Records Maintenance
       Public records must be maintained and managed in a manner that protects the integrity of
       the records within the department without regard to the technology or medium used to
       create or communicate the record, from the time of creation of a public record to the time
       of final disposition of the public record as determined by their authorized records retention
       schedule.

   B. Roles and Responsibilities

       1. Oregon law requires agencies to designate an Agency Records Officer “to coordinate its
          agency’s Records Management Program” (ORS 192.105(2)(a)). DOC shall designate an
          Agency Records Officer to set records maintenance standards for the department. The

Effective     8/5/22                         Page 3 of 8                      Policy 10.1.9
            DOC Records Officer will serve as primary liaison with the State Archivist and receive
            training from the State Archivist in performing their duties.

       2. The department will ensure agency public records are managed in accordance with
          their authorized records retention schedules, from the time of creation to final
          disposition, by assigning designated staff or positions with the following
          responsibilities:
            a. Regular review of records to determine if records should be retained or destroyed.
            b. Assist the Records Officer in identifying and developing retention schedules for new
               records series.
            c. Maintain a filing system of the department’s records based on authorized retention
               schedules. The filing system must include the description and location of the public
               records, including records the department is required to maintain due to litigation or
               special audit.
            d. Develop and implement internal processes for the transfer, retrieval, and destruction
               of records.
            e. Ensure records are destroyed according to the retention schedule.
            f. Document the destruction of the records and retain that documentation.
            g. Coordinate and track employee completion of public records management training.
            h. Review and update this policy and any related procedures.

        3. Each functional unit manager will designate an appropriate position with sufficient
           authority to work with the Records Officer to ensure compliance with the above-listed
           duties for their respective unit.

   C. Education and Training
       Basic public records training will be completed as a component of DOC new employee
       orientation training and incorporated as part of regular employee training, completed once
       a biennium. The public records training shall be provided through iLearn.

   D. Access and Ownership

       1. Without regard to how public records are being stored, the department will have custody
          and control over public records. Through ongoing review of technological advances, the
          department will ensure all public records are maintained and accessible for as long as
          required by authorized retention schedules or litigation holds.
       2. The department’s disaster mitigation process is addressed in the DOC Business and
          Continuity and Recovery plans.

   E. Integrity

Effective   8/5/22                         Page 4 of 8                         Policy 10.1.9
       1. The department will ensure appropriate access and version controls are applied to all
          electronically stored records from record creation to final disposition.
       2. The authenticity of each record can be demonstrated either by certified copy of paper
          records or via accompanying metadata for all electronic records.
   F. Retention, Generally
       The department will preserve and classify public records according to ORS chapter 192, OAR
       chapter 166-300 and DAS Statewide Policy 107-004-050 regarding Information Asset
       Classification. The department will work with the Archives Division to establish retention
       practices to ensure compliance with ORS chapter 192 and OAR chapter 166-300.

       1. Cloud Computing: The department’s practices and procedures with respect to public
          records management in the Cloud will comply with the DAS Statewide Cloud Computing
          Policy 107-004-150 and OAR chapter 166-300.
       2. Email – Official Email Accounts:
            a. In most circumstances, emails sent to or from a state employee’s official email
               account will meet the definition of a public record. Therefore, this policy requires
               that virtually all email messages composed or sent using employees’ official
               equipment or official email addresses be for primarily business purposes.
            b. When the department receives a public records request, all official email accounts
               and systems used for official state business are subject to search and production.
       3. Email – Personal Email Accounts: If employees must use personal email accounts to
          conduct state business, the department requires that employees copy their official email
          accounts on all such outgoing communications and forward any received messages on
          which their official email accounts are not copied, immediately or as soon as practicably
          possible.
       4. Instant Messaging: The department policy regarding Instant Messages is the same as that
          recited below regarding TEXT MESSAGING.
       5. Social Media:
            a. Any content the department places on any social media platform must be an
               accurate copy of an official record that is retained elsewhere by the department per
               the authorized records retention schedules.
            b. The department will develop practices and procedures to manage agency use of
               social media to ensure public records are accurately captured and retained per
               authorized records retention schedules. The DOC Social Media Plan is attached to
               this policy.
       6. Text Messaging:
            a. DOC employees may use text messaging to communicate factual and logistical
               information related to official state business, only if that information has been

Effective   8/5/22                           Page 5 of 8                      Policy 10.1.9
               documented elsewhere or will be documented and retained as a separate public
               record according to the agency’s authorized records retention schedule.
            b. In the absence of separate documentation, DOC employees are not to use text
               messages for official purposes other than for routine communications that do not
               meet the definition of a public record.
            c. Examples of Acceptable Use:
               1) Scheduling.
               2) Requesting a call or email on a matter, without substantive discussion.
               3) Requesting or offering logistical assistance (“Can you help me get these boxes to
                  the Capitol?”).
               4) Forwarding any person’s contact information (“I’m at 503-378-6002.”).
               5) Explaining your current whereabouts or inquiring about someone else’s (“We’re
                  at the meeting discussing this morning’s announcement. Are you around?”).
               6) Describing facts or events that do not relate to the substance of the agency’s
                  work (“Spilled coffee all over myself right before my presentation!”), or that have
                  been or necessarily will be separately recorded (“Mr. Jones just testified to the
                  committee that our bill would cost taxpayers $3 million.”).
               7) Inquiring about events like those in the previous bullet (“Has Mr. Jones testified
                  in committee yet?”).
            d. DOC employees must avoid communicating official state business or engaging in
               discussions regarding the primary business of employee’s work over text-message.
            e. DOC employees must avoid communicating official state business or engaging in
               discussions regarding the primary business of their work over text message.
            f. As noted above, relevant facts pertaining to official state business may be reported
               only if they are already documented in separate public records or they necessarily
               will be documented in a separate public record.
            g. If, notwithstanding this policy, an employee uses text message to communicate
               information (not otherwise documented) relating to official state business or the
               primary business of their work, such discussion is to be immediately converted and
               saved in a separate public record format (e.g., by forwarding the relevant text
               messages to their official state email or by saving screen shots of the relevant text
               messages).
            h. Because the department requires that no text message-based public records be
               created – or if they are created, that they be converted and saved in an alternate
               format, which would serve as the official copy of the record – the department will
               not retain text messages.



Effective   8/5/22                         Page 6 of 8                         Policy 10.1.9
            i.   DOC employees’ personal electronic devices should not be used to transmit text
                 messages related to state business. Personal devices are subject to search if used to
                 transmit text messages regarding official state business or information related to an
                 employee’s work that rises to the level of creating a public record.
       7. Unified Communications:
            a. The department will identify public records created by use of active Unified
               Communications features and ensure those records are appropriately managed
               according to authorized records retention schedules as well as other applicable state
               and federal policies and laws.
            b. The department’s Unified Communications records practices and procedures are
               based on the user profile selected and services available to DOC.
       8. Voicemail: Unless otherwise required, the department will not retain messages on
          voicemail. Email transcriptions of voicemails that are determined to be public records
          will be retained according to authorized records retention schedules and may be subject
          to public disclosure upon request.

   G. Storage and Retrieval

       1. Paper Records: The department will maintain a filing system of the agency’s paper
          records based on authorized retention schedules. The filing system will include the
          location of records, retention periods and procedures for retrieval to ensure accessibility
          of agency records.
       2. Electronic Records: The department will maintain a filing system and naming conventions
          for all agency records stored in electronic format based on the agency’s authorized
          retention schedules. The filing system and naming conventions will include the location
          of records in agency directories, retention periods, access controls and privacy conditions
          to support management of the agency’s inventory of electronic records.
       3. The department will work with the State Archivist to ensure the agency meets retention
          periods for all records before any data is destroyed and prior to deleting any large
          electronic record system.

   H. Public Records Requests

       1. The department will respond to all official requests for public records as soon as
          practicable and without unreasonable delay, according to timelines outlined in ORS
          192.324 and ORS 192.329.
       2. The department maintains additional policies and procedures related to requests for
          public records including, but not limited to intake, processing, and disclosure or
          determinations related to fees and charges.

   I. Disposition and Destruction of Public Records

Effective   8/5/22                           Page 7 of 8                        Policy 10.1.9
       1. The department will dispose of or destroy public records according to the requirements
          of authorized records retention schedules and OAR chapter 166-300.
       2. Pursuant to ORS 357.855, DOC employees through the DOC Records Officer will consult
          the State Archivist for advice and assistance with determining the disposition of certain
          record types not accounted for in State Agency General or Special Retention Schedules
          and reconciling unforeseen public records issues.


V. IMPLEMENTATION

   This policy has been approved by the State Archivist and will be adopted immediately without
   further modification.



Certified: _signature on file __________________
Julie Vaughn, Rules Coordinator


Approved: _signature on file __________________
Heidi Steward, Acting Director




Effective   8/5/22                        Page 8 of 8                        Policy 10.1.9
                                 Oregon Department of Corrections
                                        Social Media Plan
Purpose
The Oregon Department of Corrections (DOC) uses social media to improve communication with the public,
family and friends of adults in custody, public safety stakeholders, and staff to increase the department’s
transparency and expand accessibility of department-related information.

Social media is defined as web-based technology that allows interactive dialogue and includes, but is not
limited to, blogs, collaborative projects, content communities, and social networking sites.

Users and visitors to social media sites will be notified that the intended purpose of the site is to serve as a
mechanism for communication between the department and members of the public.

Oversight
The DOC Office of Communications oversees the department’s use of social media. This includes:
   • Approving, creating, and maintaining social media sites that officially represent the department;
   • Approving any modification or expansion of department-authorized social media sites prior to
      implementation;
   • Moderating comments and discussions on social media sites in conjunction with DOC Recruitment;
   • Retaining editorial control over any content produced for DOC social media sites; and
   • Monitoring DOC social media sites for appropriate use.

DOC staff may not create independent social media sites or pages that represent DOC without prior
authorization from the DOC Communications Office.

Approved DOC Social Media Sites
The following are DOC’s current official social media sites:
   • Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ORCorrections
   • Twitter: @ORCorrections
   • LinkedIn: Oregon Department of Corrections
   • YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/ORCorrections
   • Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/doc.orcorrections
   • DOC Blog: https://docblog.oregon.gov

Retention
Any records placed on any social media platform by DOC must be an accurate copy of an official record that is
retained elsewhere by DOC for required retention purposes.




                                                                                 Social Media Plan effective 06/01/19
