                                         DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
                                                Institutions

  Title:               Capacity Management                              DOC Policy: 40.3.2
  Effective:           04/20/21                                         Supersedes: 05/01/15
                       Institution Based Employees, Correctional Services, Office of Population
  Applicability:       Management,
                       Correctional Rehabilitation, and Behavioral Health Services
  Directives Cross-Reference: None
  Attachments:         None


I. PURPOSE
   The purpose of this policy is to establish designated authority in managing institution bed capacity,
   utilize standardized methods in monitoring information system capacity population reports, develop
   a master bed capacity inventory record, and maintain consistent bed definitions for capacity
   management.

II. DEFINITIONS

   A. Adult in Custody: Any person under the supervision of the Department of Corrections who is not
      on parole, probation, or post-prison supervision

   B. Emergency Bed: Beds created for short-term temporary use when an institution or special
      housing unit population exceeds permanent beds.

III. POLICY

   A. Responsibility and Management

       1. The Office of Population Management has administrative oversight for the management of
          prison bed occupancy and capacity requirements for AICs housed in DOC facilities.
          Responsibilities include:

              a. Prepare a ten-year population plan based on the population forecast published by the
                 Department of Administrative Services Office of Economic Analysis.

                i.   The population plan will be developed using a target general population vacancy rate
                     of 4%.

               ii.   A reasonable methodology will be applied to determine at what point capacity will be
                     activated or deactivated when the vacancy rate is projected to be above or below 4%.
                     This methodology may include, but is not limited to:

   Effective: 04/20/21                                    1                                  Policy 40.3.2
                1. Considerations for how long the vacancy rate is projected to be outside of the 4-6%
                    range.

                2. Consideration of the impacts bed activations/deactivations have on institution
                    staff and operations.

                3. Consideration for the recent and current trends in the use of restrictive housing,
                    mental health and program capacity.

                4. Planned operational changes, such as the closure of a unit or facility.

                5. Agency strategic initiatives that drive operational changes.

         iii.   This vacancy rate may be adjusted with approval from the Assistant Director of
                Correctional Services and the Assistant Director of Operations if current
                circumstances warrant it, such as but not limited to, a pandemic.

        b. Provide gatekeeper authority for all DOC institution bed capacity.

        c. Provide quality assurance by utilizing standardized bed capacity reports and consistent
           guidelines for bed type definitions.

        d. Monitor capacity resource reports.

        e. Maintain a master document articulating all emergency beds for each DOC facility for
           historical purposes.

        f. The Office of Population Management Administrator or designee is responsible to assess
           and monitor bed capacity and population needs for the department to ensure efficient
           utilization of bed resources.

B. Procedures

    1. Institutions may request a change in bed numbers or bed type. Any request shall be fully
       justified in writing and submitted to the Office of Population Management. The request shall
       include, but not be limited to, the following:

        a. Information of the present bed count/type;

        b. The specific change requested;

        c. Estimated change in number or type of beds resulting from the request; and

        d. The resulting bed count/use after the change is completed.

    2. The Office of Population Management Administrator or designee will:

        a. Review all requests for changes in bed capacities and bed type with the Chief Financial
Effective: 04/20/21                                    2                                 Policy 40.3.2
              Officer, Assistant Director of Correctional Services, and the Assistant Director of
              Operations or their designees. The decision to approve or deny will be communicated to
              all stakeholders.

          b. Ensure all appropriate changes are made to the Correctional Information System (CIS)
             capacity and population programs, and Corrections Management Information System
             (CMIS). All information system changes shall be forwarded to the Operations Division and
             Research Unit.

      3. The Office of Population Management shall maintain a permanent record, for historical
          purposes, of all approved changes to bed capacity.

      4. The Chief Financial Officer shall work in concert with the Correctional Services Office of
          Population Management unit to ensure adequate budgetary resources are made available in
          administering the required beds in each institution.


IV. IMPLEMENTATION

  This policy will be adopted immediately without further modification.



Certified:    signature on file
Michelle Mooney, Rules Coordinator


Approved:       signature on file
Heidi Steward, Deputy Director




  Effective: 04/20/21                                  3                               Policy 40.3.2
