EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 22

STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF OREGON DRIVER LICENSES AND
IDENTIFICATION CARDS

Driving on Oregon's roads and highways is a privilege. That privilege is conferred
through a system of licensing of drivers that is managed by the Driver and Motor
Services Division (DMV) of the Oregon Department of Transportation and by
similar government agencies throughout the United States.

State-issued driver licenses and identification cards are the most commonly used
identification documents in the U.S. Such cards are routinely accepted as
identification by the public and private sectors in financial and credit transactions
and are used to board airplanes, to enter secure buildings, to purchase alcohol and
other restricted products and for a myriad of other purposes. It is essential that
public and private entities be able to rely on the legitimacy of driver licenses and
identification cards issued by each of the states and territories of the U.S. as
establishing the holder's true identity.

Oregon's documentation requirements to prove identity are among the most
permissive in the country. At a minimum, most states verify Social Security
numbers for all applicants with a Social Security number, require valid passports
with current immigration documentation for non-citizens and, except for Canadian-
issued birth certificates, do not accept foreign birth certificates. However,
Oregon's current administrative rules do not contain these restrictions. This fact,
coupled with Oregon's relatively long eight-year license term, appear to have made
Oregon a magnet for persons from out of state to come here to unlawfilly obtain
identification documents for which they are not eligible either in this state or in the
state in which they actually reside.

Although the magnitude of these activities is not yet fully known, it appears that
criminal organizations both inside and outside Oregon are using Oregon's
permissive standards in order to assist persons to illegally obtain driver licenses and
identification cards from DMV. These services are being advertised in foreign
language newspapers in states with more stringent standards. It appears that these
organizations transport individuals into Oregon for a fee and provide them with
false residency documents solely for the purpose of illegally obtaining an Oregon
driver license or identification card. Investigations into these activities are
ongoing.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 22
PAGE TWO

The issuance of driver licenses and identification cards is a core function of state
government. It is essential that our system for issuing licenses and identification
cards be secure and reliable. This is particularly important in the battle against
identity fraud and identity theft and to protect our national security. Because of
these concerns, it is clear that Oregon must tighten its standards for obtaining driver
licenses and identification cards in order to more effectively prevent fraud and
criminal activity.

Oregon law provides DMV with considerable latitude to define by administrative
rule the types of documentation that DMV will accept to establish identity and to
establish procedures to verify identity prior to issuance of a driver license or
identification card. Although legislative consideration of these issues is desirable,
some changes can be made immediately and without action by the Legislature.

The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) is a non-
profit association representing motor vehicle agency administrators and senior law
enforcement officials from throughout the U.S. and Canada. AAMVA's mission is
to represent its membership by working collaboratively to support and improve
motor vehicle administration, safety, identification security and law enforcement.
AAMVA has developed policies and guidelines that encourage uniformity,
reciprocity and sharing of best practices among states, provinces, federal
government officials and the private sector, including guidelines for the issuance of
driver licenses, that have been adopted by most U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

         1.     DMV shall, as soon as practicable, prepare emergency
administrative rules to revise and tighten the requirements for issuance of driver
licenses, driver permits and identification cards and shall present such emergency
rules to the Oregon Transportation Commission for adoption and implementation.

       2.      The administrative rules for issuance of driver licenses, driver
permits and identification cards shall generally adhere to the standards
recommended by AAMVA regarding use and verification of Social Security
numbers and acceptable documentation to prove name and date of birth.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 22
PAGE THREE

        3.      The administrative rules shall require any applicant for an original,
renewal or replacement driver license, driver permit or identification card to
provide DMV with a valid Social Security number or a written statement that the
applicant has not been issued a Social Security number. DMV shall verify with the
Social Security Administration the accuracy of Social Security numbers provided.
Except as provided in (4)(b), DMV shall deny or cancel driving privileges and
identification cards if the applicant does not provide his or her Social Security
number or if the Social Security number provided by the applicant cannot be
verified to the satisfaction of DMV.

        4.      The administrative rules shall require any applicant for an original,
renewal, or replacement driver license, driver permit or identification card to
provide to DMV primary identity document(s) that establishes the applicant's
identity to the satisfaction of DMV.

           a. For applicants who provide a verifiable Social Security number, an
              applicant must provide at least one primary document which
              includes, but is not necessarily limited to:
                   i. A United States, Canadian or U.S. territorial government-
                         issued birth certificate;
                   ii. United States Military ID or other U.S. military
                         documentation determined by rule by DMV to be
                         acceptable;
                   iii. A valid United States passport;
                   iv. A valid foreign passport with valid United States Citizen
                         and Immigration Service (USCIS) documentation that has
                         not expired;
                   v. Other valid USCIS documents that have not expired and
                         are determined by rule by DMV to be acceptable, such as,
                         but not necessarily limited to, a Temporary Resident ID
                         card, Resident Alien Card or Permanent Resident Card;
                    vi. An Oregon driver license, driver permit or identification
                         card that is valid or expired for less than one year;
                    vii.A driver license, driver permit or identification card issued
                         by another state of the United States or by a Canadian
                         province that is valid or expired for less than 60 days; or
                    viii.A valid Confederated Tribes of Oregon tribal identification
                         card, as approved by DMV.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 22
PAGE FOUR

           b. For applicants who are unable to provide a verifiable Social Security
              number, DMV shall require the applicant to provide additional
              identity documents. DMV shall determine by administrative rule
              the number and type of identity documents that must be provided. If
              the applicant presents an identity document issued by a foreign
              government, the applicant must provide one of the following:
                   i. A valid foreign passport with valid United States Citizen
                        and Immigration Service (USCIS) documentation that has
                        not expired; or
                  ii. Other valid USCIS documents that have not expired and
                        are determined by rule by DMV to be acceptable, such as,
                        but not necessarily limited to, a Temporary Resident ID
                        card, Resident Alien Card or Permanent Resident Card.

        5.      The new standards in these emergency administrative rules shall be
effective as of a date to be set by DMV in the rules. Such implementation is to be
accomplished in as expeditious a manner as is possible following adoption of the
rules by the Oregon Transportation Commission.

        6.      Within one year of full implementation of these emergency rules,
DMV shall report to the Governor as to the effectiveness of these measures in
reducing fiaud in the process of issuing driver licenses, driver permits and
identification cards, on the difficulties that these new requirements may have
imposed on DMV customers and staff, and any other consequences of these new
requirements that have been experienced by DMV.

               Done at Salem, Oregon, this 16" day of November, 2007.
