Wires of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 13


    GOVERNOR’S RESET CABINET


    The current economic crisis has exposed vulnerabilities in the State’s ability to
    provide the services that Oregonians rely upon every day, from education to human
    services and public safety. These services are essential to building a strong
    economy, sustaining healthy communities, and providing safe cities and
    neighborhoods. Now, faced with an uncertain economic future, our ability to
    preserve and improve these core functions of government has been severely
    constrained by decades-old policies and declining resources at the state and federal
    level.


    Under the current structure of state government, in large part because of laws and
    constitutional amendments approved by the voters in a stronger economy, Oregon
    cannot sustain the level of services necessary to ensure the education, health, and
    safety of our citizens. Limitations on collecting local revenues, the escalating
    burden of federally-mandated responsibilities for human services, and rigid State
    mandates affecting the sentencing and incarceration of prisoners allow little
    flexibility to the Governor and the Legislature when developing the State’s budget.
    Furthermore, State and local governments face declining resources from the federal
    government as one-time stimulus funds are exhausted and financial support for
    timber-dependent counties declines. The effects of these policies will continue to
    hamper the State’s ability to support K-12 education, community colleges, and
    universities and to protect our most vulnerable citizens.

    Over the last six years, we have taken important steps such as reforming the Public
    Employees Retirement System and establishing a Rainy Day Fund, to establish
    greater stability for the State and local governments. However, it is time to review
    Oregon’s delivery of education, human services, and public safety and to
    restructure State government so that we can provide quality services in a
    sustainable way. We must reverse the practice of making deep cuts to vital services
    in each recession, which will hinder our ability to accelerate economic recovery
    and secure the benefits of economic growth.

    In light of the current recession and the prospects of a slow-growth recovery, now
    is an optimal time to undertake a comprehensive review of State government
    functions, how we deliver those functions and whether we can make policy changes
    that create greater stability for, and improve the results we achieve from, our
    investments in education, human services, and public safety.


    To that end, I am creating a cabinet to advise me on options for restructuring State
    government in order to preserve and improve critical services for Oregonians in the
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 13
    PAGE TWO


    context of limited State revenues, restrictive State mandates and both increasing
    responsibilities and diminishing resources from the federal government. These
    options shall address:
         * The prioritization of core functions, including the consolidation and
             elimination of boards and commissions; and
         = Improving outcomes, controlling costs, and maximizing efficiencies by
             consolidating service delivery and providing greater flexibility, where
            needed.

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

            1.      The Governor’s Reset Cabinet (Cabinet) is hereby established to
    reexamine and prioritize the core functions of State government in Oregon, to
    advise the Governor on opportunities to create efficiencies, improve outcomes and
    stabilize existing revenue streams and to provide the basis for a report from the
    Governor to the citizens of Oregon on options for resetting the priorities and
    functions of government to better serve the interests and needs of Oregonians.

            2.     The Cabinet shall consist of seven members, selected by the
    Governor. The Cabinet will include representatives from the public and private
    sectors who can provide expertise and innovation in the areas of education, human
    services, public safety and revenue restructuring. The members shall serve at the
    pleasure of the Governor.


           3.     The Cabinet shall oversee and coordinate the work of
    subcommittees, also selected by the Governor, focused on the policy areas of
    education, human services and public safety. Each subcommittee will be chaired
    by a member of the Cabinet.

           4,      Under the direction of the Cabinet, the subcommittees shall:

                   a.     Identify and prioritize the core functions of State government
                          in each of the areas of education, health care, and public
                          safety;
                  db.     Review and recommend the consolidation and elimination of
                          boards and commissions;
                   c.     Analyze our existing structure for providing services,
                          revenue streams and investments in education, human
                          services, and public safety;




                                                                                           Ne
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 13
    PAGE THREE


                   d.     Study, assess, and analyze strategies to increase efficiency,
                          improve outcomes, and stabilize revenue streams for
                          education, human services and public safety;
                   e.     Identify opportunities to consolidate service delivery and
                          provide greater flexibility, where needed; and
                  f.      Develop a plan containing specific recommendations to the
                          Governor to reset State government’s core functions and
                          stabilize its revenue structure.


          5.     The Cabinet shall provide to the Governor preliminary findings and
    recommendations relevant to the special session of the 2010 Legislature by
    February 1, 2010.


           6.      The Cabinet shall submit to the Governor a final written report of
    findings and recommendations by June 30, 2010, as the basis for a report from the
    Governor to the citizens of Oregon and to inform the Governor’s Recommended
    Budget for the 2011-2013 biennium.

           7.      If the Cabinet requires the assistance of any other executive branch
    agency of the State not named in this order, then such agency shall provide that
    assistance to the Cabinet upon request.

           8.    The members of the Cabinet shall not be entitled to the
    reimbursement of expenses or to the per diem provided in ORS 292.495(2).

           9.      This Order will expire on December 31, 2010.

                   Done at Salem, Oregon, rari 2009.



                                                  Theodore R. Kulongoski |
                                                  GOVERNOR

                                                  ATTEST:               [2

                                                             own   °    .
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                          ie
