EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-05

OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY

The unprecedented terrorist attacks on the United States of America on September 11, 2001
and numerous other threats to Americans at home and abroad from terrorist activities reaffirm
to everyone the importance of a secure homeland.


The citizens of the State of Oregon now know they face the uncertain hazards of malicious
harm as well as the more easily understood acts of nature and human error.


Currently, divisions exist within and between the various agencies of state government that are
responsible for preventing, preparing for, responding to and recovering from disasters and
terrorist attacks.   The challenges facing Oregon’s homeland, are of sufficient magnitude such
that they must be addressed by a consolidated and coordinated entity whose primary
responsibility is safeguarding the safety and security of Oregonians from such threats.


Now therefore, after consultation with the Governor's Security Council, the Attorney General,
the Speaker of the House, the President of the Senate, the Superintendent of State Police and
the Acting Adjutant General of the Oregon National Guard,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

    1.   The Office of Homeland Security is hereby created.


    2.   The following divisions of the Oregon State Police shall be considered part of the
         Office of Homeland Security: the Office of Emergency Management, The Office of
         Public Safety and Security, the Criminal Justice Services Division, and the Office of
         the State Fire Marshal.

    3.   The following elements of the Oregon National Guard shall be considered part of the
         Office of Homeland Security: the Joint Director of Military Support Homeland Defense
         and the 102 Civil Support Team.

    4.   The Departments of Agriculture, Transportation, Environmental Quality and the
         Department of Human Services, Public Health Preparedness Section shall each designate
         a liaison to the Office of Homeland Security to better coordinate the efforts of those
         Agencies with that of the Office of Homeland Security.


    5.   The Office of Homeland Security shall be administratively deemed a department, and
         shall perform the statutory duties required of each of its composite elements.   The
         Director of the Office of Homeland Security shall be appointed by the Governor and
         shall be a member of the Governor's Cabinet.
Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-05
PAGE TWO




  6.   The Department of State Police the Oregon Military Department, the Department of
       Administrative Services, and any other applicable departments shall execute such
       interagency agreements or memoranda as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes
       of this Executive Order.


  7. The Office of Homeland Security shall provide overall leadership in coordinating
       private and governmental sector efforts to prevent, prepare for, respond to and recover
       from, disasters and terrorist attacks making efficient and effective use of Oregon’s
       emergency resources, including close cooperation with the State's local partners and
       first responders.



       Done at Portland, Oregon this 11" day,




                                           GOVERNOR

                                           ATTEST:




                                           SECRETARY OF STATE
