Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 - 11


    OREGON HEALTH AUTHORITY PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION

    Thave signed into law House Bill 2009, which was passed by the 2009 Legislative
    Assembly. This law lays out a compelling policy agenda for short-term reforms and
    longer-term plans to make high quality health care affordable and accessible to all
    Oregonians by 2015 and provides a new organizational framework for the state to
    accomplish this goal. Specifically, House Bill 2009 authorizes the creation of a
    new health care agency, the Oregon Health Authority (OHA), and provides for the
    transfer to the OHA of the duties, functions and powers with respect to health and
    health care, now under the Department of Human Services (DHS), the Public
    Employees’ Benefit Board and the Oregon Educators Benefit Board, now under the
    Department of Administrative Services, the Oregon Medical Insurance Pool and
    their Board, now under the Department of Consumer and Business Services, and
    the Family Health Insurance Assistance Program, now under the Office of Private
    Health Partnerships.


    The Directors of the Departments of Human Services, Administrative Services and
    Consumer and Business Services and the Administrator of the Office of Private
    Health Partnerships are directed to work together to establish and complete a
    timeline for the transfer of duties, functions and powers pursuant to House Bill
    2009. All of the changes necessary to accomplish the transfers will be reflected in
    the Governor’s Recommended Budget for the 2011-2013 biennium.

    T intend to appoint Bruce Goldberg to be the Director of the Oregon Health
    Authority at the point that the transition is complete. The position of Director of
    the Oregon Health Authority is not currently funded and will remain vacant until
    the transition is completed.

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

           1.     The Department of Human Services and its Director shall be the
    lead agency and director respectively for this planning and transition process.

           2.      The Director of the Department of Human Services shall work
    cooperatively with the Directors of the Department of Administrative Services and
    Consumer and Business Services and the Administrator of the Office of Private
    Health Partnerships on the planning and transition process in accordance Section 20
    of House Bill 2009.


           3.     I delegate to the Director of the Department of Human Services my
    executive authority to carry out the statutory duties assigned to the Director of the
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 11
    PAGE TWO


    Oregon Health Authority in House Bill 2009 until such time as I appoint the
    Director for the Oregon Health Authority.


           4,     This Executive Order shall remain in effect until July 1, 2011.

                  Done at Salem, Oregon this 7th day of July, 2009.




                                     CT RaMlbutya_
                                        Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                        GOVERNOR


                                        ATTEST:




                                                kLVPtar—
                                        Kate Brown
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    ited
