The Honorable Bill Bradbury
Chair, Oregon Sustainability Board
State Capitol
Salem, Oregon

Dear Bill,

Today I issued Executive Order 03-03, to achieve a sustainable Oregon for the 21st century. That Order is
intended to support and drive the goals of the Oregon Sustainability Act (Act) adopted by the Legislature
in 2001. I direct and encourage the Oregon Sustainability Board (Board) to use the powers vested under
the Act to provide the needed leadership and direction for state government to achieve new plateaus of
sustainability. And, it is my hope that the Board will also provide leadership and encouragement to the
rest of the state to move to significantly higher levels of sustainability.

It is my intent that state agencies take specific actions to achieve the Board’s sustainability goals for the
state. and under the Act, I believe the Board has the ability to direct assistance from other agencies in
reaching these goals. I have received a number of excellent suggestions from inside and outside state
government about actions that agencies could take to drive to sustainability. By this letter, I forward these
attached suggestions to you.

The first group is a set of actions that were developed in discussion with state agencies and may be ready
to implement almost immediately. I believe that implementing this group of actions in a timely manner
would move the state measurably down the path toward sustainability. The second group includes other
ideas that have not been developed sufficiently to implement immediately, but are also very worthy of
consideration. I invite the Board, and its Sustainability Leadership Team provided for in the Order, to
review both groups of suggestions and take the actions it deems appropriate.

In close, I want to thank you for your continued leadership on the Board and encourage you to call on me
if you need further direction or assistance in this matter.


Highest Regards,




Governor Kulongoski
                    State Agency Sustainability Actions Underway


1. Development of a Statewide Conservation Plan (“Conservation Plan”). (Proposed deadline:
   June 30, 2005)

       a) The long-term goal of the Conservation Plan would be to assure the sustainability of
          Oregon’s terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and the economies that rely upon them. The
          Conservation Plan could be coordinated with major economic development initiatives of the
          state to avoid unnecessary conflicts and misdirected investments. It could contain a vision
          statement, overall assessment of the distribution and condition of natural resources (soil,
          timber, water, fish, wildlife, habitat, etc.), goals and objectives for major regions of the state,
          a map of resources in greatest need of conservation, and performance monitoring. The
          Conservation Plan could address the sustainable management of lands used primarily for
          economic purposes to help define their role in meeting overall conservation objectives.
       b) The Director of the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife could assemble an
          interdisciplinary team to develop the Conservation Plan, drawing expertise from other
          agencies and the private sector, to address the full range of natural resource conservation
          needs, including those outside the jurisdiction and expertise of the agency.
       c) To the extent applicable, the Directors of the Departments of Agriculture, Water Resources,
          Forestry, Environmental Quality and Watershed Enhancement should provide information
          needed for and participate in the development of the Conservation Plan.
       d) The Director of the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife could solicit the involvement of
          the Institute for Natural Resources at Oregon State University, Tribal and local governments,
          non-government organizations with an interest in natural resources conservation and
          management, and appropriate federal agencies.

2. Oregon Energy Office (Energy) Actions .

       a) Implement a High Performance Schools program that makes energy and green building
          design services for new schools available to all K-12 school districts. The designs could
          significantly improve energy efficiency and indoor air quality, and in most cases, do so at no
          additional capital cost to the districts. The goal would be to involve at least 50 percent of all
          new school buildings. In addition, Energy could offer a companion program targeted at new
          k-12 portable classrooms, that could exceed building code energy-efficiency requirements by
          30 percent, address indoor air quality, and provide higher levels of daylighting. Energy also
          could assist school districts to obtain funding for additional energy enhancements that may be
          funded by grants from other sources and notify all appropriate entities about the program.
          (Proposed deadline: July 1, 2003)

       b) Develop a proposal for the Governor to designate October as Energy Awareness Month. The
          Director could provide agencies with information, ideas and materials to promote energy
          conservation, use of renewables, and the reduction in Green House Gas emissions.

       c) In consultation with the Chairman of the Energy Facilities Siting Council (EFSC), evaluate
          whether, on a MW output basis, renewable energy facilities face comparable siting
          requirements compared to conventional generating facilities. If the Director determines there
          is a disparity that disadvantages renewable facilities, the Director would then recommend to
            the Board remedies to eliminate the disadvantages for adoption by EFSC.

        d) Participate in negotiations and prepare recommendations for Oregon’s potential participation
           in the West Coast Climate Change/Clean Energy Initiative.


3. Oregon Department of Agriculture (AG) Actions .

    a. In collaboration with the Department of Administrative Services, the Department of Corrections,
       the Department of Economic and Community Development, and stakeholder groups, AG could
       develop strategies, baseline data and targets to increase the purchase of locally produced and
       grown food, groceries and produce by state institutions, in particular food products certified as
       organic under Federal law or that meet other similar certification programs.

    b. Develop a report for the Board on how to increase the sustainability of Oregon agriculture
       through the use and promotion of voluntary sustainability certification programs. In developing
       this recommendation, AG would work with the State Board of Agriculture, the US Department of
       Agriculture, the agricultural industry and groups that have developed agricultural certification
       programs (such as the Food Alliance and Oregon Tilth). The report could examine the pros and
       cons of existing certification programs and the marketing advantages to agriculture from using
       the programs. If the report concludes that certification programs can help improve agricultural
       sustainability and offer marketing advantages to Oregon agriculture, the report could make
       specific recommendations on how to promote existing programs and/or develop a new program, a
       work plan, schedule and budget for implementation of the recommendations. (Proposed deadline:
       March 2004)

    c. Maximize the opportunities and resources associated with the 2002 Farm Bill Energy Title that
       provides assistance to growers for project development of bio-fuels, bio-mass, wind energy,
       methane digesters, carbon sequestration, and other similar programs. In collaboration with the
       Energy, Economic and Community Development Department, the Governor's Office, and other
       federal, state, and local agencies, organizations, and private businesses, the department could
       implement a program to assist growers in identifying financial and technical assistance to
       maximize these opportunities.

    d. Complete the development of Agricultural Water Quality Management Plans for all basins in the
       state. The department would work with Soil and Water Conservation Districts, USDA agencies,
       and other state and local entities to identify and provide technical, financial and educational
       assistance to the advisory groups helping the department develop the plans. (Proposed deadline:
       January 2004)

4. Department of Administrative Services Actions :

a) Establish motor vehicles purchase standards, subject to competitive solicitation processes:

    (1) Light duty vehicles (under 8,500 lbs. gross) that score 6.0 or higher on the U.S. Environmental
        Protection Agency’s emissions/air pollution index, provided that such vehicles are available and
        capable of carrying out the operational needs of using agencies.

    (2) Oversee an annual process wherein all state agencies that own vehicles determine a composite
        EPA emissions/air pollution score and an average fleet miles-per-gallon score for all 2003 and
        later models. Agencies would be directed to increase the percentage value each year by an
        amount to be set by the Director after consultation with affected agencies. The Director could
        also compile scores of all agencies that use DAS Motor Pool vehicles. The Director could
        compile and submit agency scores for inclusion into the biennial statewide fleet review mandated
        by ORS 283.343. (Proposed deadline: September 2003)

    (3) Oversee a process that results in at least three state agencies operating vehicle repair facilities
        achieving “Eco-Logical Business” certification from the Department of Environmental Quality.
        (Proposed deadline: July 2005).

    (4) Annually, measure the quantities of “environmentally friendly” fuel (compressed natural gas, bio-
        diesel, ultra-low sulfur diesel, and others to be determined) and normal fuel (unleaded gasoline,
        diesel) used by Motor Pool vehicles in the previous fiscal year. The Director could implement
        programs, as necessary, directed toward meeting an objective of increasing the use of
        “environmentally friendly” fuel by 5% per year. (Proposed deadline: September 2003)

b) Other purchasing activities:

    (1) In consultation with the Department of Environmental Quality and the Western States
        Contracting Alliance, develop sustainability-sensitive purchasing and disposal policies, targets
        and benchmarks for state-agency purchased personal computers, monitors, PDAs, cell phones,
        servers, and related peripheral equipment. These policies could result within 6 years in a
        measurable target, such as direct supplier take-back of these components at the end of their
        operational lifetimes. (Proposed deadline: July 2004)

    (2) Revise the Department’s statewide bid specifications for electronic office equipment to require an
        “Energy Star” or other third-party certification standard relating to energy savings. (Proposed
        deadline: July 2003)

c) Standards and guidelines for state buildings:

    (1) New State Facilities: To the extent possible under exiting laws, ensure that all state buildings,
        including buildings on the campuses of institutions of higher education, authorized for design
        after a defined date are sited, designed, constructed, operated and maintained in ways that are
        models of energy, water, and materials efficiency. Revise the State Facilities Standards and
        Guidelines, as necessary, to accomplish this to include all reasonable cost-effective measures in
        the areas of site, water efficiency, energy and atmosphere, materials and resources, and indoor air
        quality. Look for ways to exceed the statutory goal of 20% for energy consumption and include
        practices to ensure buildings start and continue to operate efficiently over time. Measures
        reported could include reduced water use, waste recycled, materials reused, reduced energy use,
        and recycled materials used.

    (2) Existing Buildings: Reduce the use of non-renewable energy use in buildings by at least 10
        percent below consumption for the base year of 2000. Renovations to existing buildings could
        include all reasonable cost-effective measures in the areas of site, water efficiency, energy and
        atmosphere, materials and resources, and indoor air quality. (Proposed deadline: July 2003)

    (3) Leased Facilities: By July 2004, all build-to-suit and leases involving major renovation could
        incorporate all reasonable cost-effective measures in the areas of water efficiency, energy and
         atmosphere, materials and resources, and indoor air quality that have pay-backs shorter than the
         lease term. (Proposed deadline: July 2004)

     (4) Develop and implement a plan for state agencies to double the amount of electricity purchased
         from green power sources. State agencies could work with electricity providers in all areas of the
         state to help ensure green power is available and cost-effective. (Proposed deadline: July 2005).

     (5) Set up a standards review committee which would advise the Director of DAS on updating the
         State Facilities Standards and Guidelines policy, developing new standards, and providing
         references and guidance to state agencies. A key objective of this update would be to provide
         measurable standards for all mandatory elements of the policy, and as many measurable standards
         as possible for the recommended and optional elements. (Proposed deadline July 2004)


5. Economic and Community Development Department (OECDD) Actions:

a) Investigate the possibility of creating an annual sustainability awards program modeled on the Oregon
   Performance Excellence Awards program. The Director of OECDD could seek the involvement of
   private for profit corporations and businesses, non-profit entities and local and federal government to
   fund and operate the program. (Proposed deadline: February 2004).

b)    Promote sustainable industries and business practices in coordination with other public and private
     partners by:

         1. Developing a target industry strategy as part of the Oregon Marketing Campaign to capitalize
            on business opportunities that support sustainable development, including opportunities for
            new and existing businesses. The Director would work the Sustainability Board, industry and
            other partners in developing this strategy. Target industries to be evaluated could include:
            renewable energy and energy conservation; clean transportation technologies; pollution
            control and prevention; water conservation, recycling and reuse; stormwater technologies;
            green chemistry and materials sciences; recycling and reuse products and technologies;
            ecosystem management and restoration; organic and sustainable agriculture; green building
            design and construction technologies; products from certified forest practices; eco- and
            agricultural tourism; and international services.
         2. Including a sustainability factor when OECDD reviews projects for priority funding.
            OECDD could review the extent to which a request for funding promotes sustainable
            industries or sustainable business practices.
         3. Providing incentives to use Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)
            standards and other green building practices in the development of facilities funded by the
            OECDD.
         4. Sponsoring workshops and training opportunities, connecting businesses with providers of
            technical assistance, identifying suppliers of sustainable products, supporting partnerships
            that encourage sustainable development and providing information concerning sustainable
            business practices to businesses throughout the state via the Regional Development Officers’
            Business Outreach program and the work of OECDD’s Sustainable Business Liaison.
         5. Developing proposals for tax incentives and other funding mechanisms to support sustainable
            business practices and sustainable industry development. Included in this could be a
            recommendation to the Board on whether to propose legislation to establish a Development
            Finance Authority. (Proposed deadline: November 2004 for inclusion in the 2005 legislative
            package).
        6. Convening workshops with representatives from different tourism-related industries in
           Oregon (travel agents, hotels, conference facilities, tour operators, meeting planners,
           attractions, transportation options, etc.) to develop a plan for "sustainable tourism."

6. Department of Parks and Recreation Actions :

a) Establish criteria for the evaluation of grant proposals that include considerations for use of
   sustainable materials, efficient use of energy, waste and hazardous substance reduction and impact on
   ecosystems. Such criteria could apply to projects through the Local Government Grant Program,
   County Opportunity Grant Program, Land and Water Conservation Fund, Recreation Trails Program
   and the All Terrain Vehicle Grant Program. (Proposed deadline: January 2004).

b) Develop a program to phase out the use of two-cycle engines. Director of OECDD, with the advice
   and support of the Director of the Department of Environmental Quality, could develop a report for
   the Board’s review that contains an inventory of all implements with said engines used by the
   department or its regular contractors, determines the availability and suitability of substitute
   implements that are more efficient and significantly less polluting, calculates the emissions reductions
   from the new equipment, projects phase-in of new equipment over a 6 year period, and calculates the
   additional cost for implementing this program. (Proposed deadline: January 2004).


7. Oregon Progress Board Actions: The Oregon Progress Board could recommend to the Board a
   plan for incorporating the measurement of sustainability into the Oregon Benchmarks. The Progress
   Board could also incorporate the concepts of sustainability into all subsequent updates of Oregon
   Shines, the state's strategic vision. (Proposed deadline: December 30, 2003).
                                Potential State Agency Actions

1. Department of Administrative Services (DAS). DAS could undertake the following actions:

    a) Review the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives/ICLEI “Green Your Fleet”
       methodology in order to develop a fleet vehicle CO2 emissions goal for state fleet and to give
       priority to purchase of SULEV and ZEV vehicles.
    b) Develop a program to ensure that all state agencies are “greening the supply chain” by ensuring
       that the state utilizes its purchasing power to influence the availability and purchasing of more
       sustainable products and services.

2. Public Utility Commission (PUC) Actions. PUC could undertake to report to the Board on whether
   the Least Cost Plans for the electric utilities that are OPUC regulated are appropriately evaluating the
   inclusion of renewable energy resources. In addition to the customary OPUC evaluation criteria, the
   report could evaluate whether considerations of price stability, system reliability and environmental
   quality are satisfactorily reflected in those plans.

3. ODOT and DEQ Actions. ODOT and DEQ could undertake to:

    a) Determine options for reducing diesel truck and other diesel equipment idling, especially in
       populated areas, including their authority to implement such actions.

    b) Evaluate options for emissions testing for diesel-powered vehicle s, costs and benefits associated
       with such testing, and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.

    c) Evaluate emissions impacts of the current school bus fleet. Evaluate options for converting
       school bus fleets to non-diesel or lower-emissions diesel alternatives.


4. Department of Housing and Community Development Actions . The Department of Housing and
   Community Development could implement a policy to increase the use of technology by residents of
   publicly funded affordable housing. Agencies could structure programs so that they aid affordable
   housing developers to stimulate a culture of digital use among residents. To achieve these goals
   programs could provide that:

    •   Agencies could only fund housing developments that provide high speed Internet access in
        residential units.
    •   Each unit could be connected via a data network to reduce the cost of high speed Internet access.
    •   All costs of providing high speed Internet access for each residential unit could be eligible for
        funding.
    •   Ongoing monthly costs of high-speed Internet access could be considered a part of the housing
        operating budget and eligible for funding.
    •   Computers could be included in each unit and funded as an amenity could be considered an
        eligible expense.


5. The Department of Energy and DAS could develop a program to promote the use of renewable
   resources so that by a date certain all state agencies purchase at least 10 percent of their electricity
   from green power sources. All state agencies could consider installing renewable energy applications
   at state facilities, such as solar-powered parking lot lighting. All state agencies that own adequate land
   resources could assess the feasibility of installing renewable resource electricity generation on those
   lands.


6. Department of Energy (Energy) Actions. Energy could undertake the following:

   a) Help increase the number of state employees using the telework program by offering training and
      other assistance. Telework helps reduce the amount of carbon dioxide emissions and relieves
      traffic congestion. The State of Oregon could take advantage of telework where there are
      opportunities to improve employee performance, reduce commuting miles and produce agency
      savings.

   b) Through life-cycle cost-effective energy measures, develop a program so that each agency
      reduces its greenhouse gas emissions attributed to facility energy use by a defined percentage by
      a defined date compared to such emissions levels in 2000. In order to encourage optimal
      investment in energy improvements, agencies could count greenhouse gas reductions from
      improvements in nonfacility energy use toward this goal.


7. ODOT Actions. ODOT could undertake the following:

   a) Develop specific sustainability measures and criteria for the demolition, design and construction
      of bridges in the state.
   b) Oversee development of an Environmental Management System (EMS) in the Maintenance
      Division by a certain date to minimize the environmental impacts of the maintenance of the
      transportation system throughout Oregon while providing an effective transportation system that
      supports both the economic activities of the state and the livability of communities. The
      Environmental Management System could be documented so that cost and time savings can be
      identified along with environmenta l protection improvements. The documentation would be
      designed as a model for other ODOT Divisions, other state agencies, and other large government
      entities.


8. The Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) Actions. DEQ could undertake the following:

   a) Continue efforts to develop and implement a cost-effective and collaborative strategy for
      reducing the amount of toxics in Oregon's air, land, and water, in support of the Agency's
      strategic prioritie s; promote opportunities within Oregon to minimize toxic releases, properly
      manage toxics, reduce exposures to toxics, and identify alternatives for products that contain
      toxics; examine what other states are doing to eliminate the use of certain toxic materials and
      determine whether such programs are applicable to Oregon. An initial focus of the effort could
      be to develop a strategy for reducing mercury. DEQ could develop a mercury reduction strategy,
      including recommendations for efforts to be undertaken to reduce mercury, as well as targets and
      specific measures of progress. Future efforts could focus on developing strategies, consistent
      with the approach above, addressing reductions for other toxics, focusing on, but not exclusive to,
      those that are persistent and bioaccumulative.
   b) In consultation with interested stakeholders, develop a strategy to promote clean diesel
      technology in Oregon that considers public health, environmental impacts, cost, economic
      development, the role of renewable fuels and other relevant factors.

9. The Land Conservation and Development Commission Actions. LCDC could undertake the
   following:

   a) Work with the "Committee on Land Use Planning" group (HB 2912) to assess the ability of
      Oregon's land use planning system to enhance planning for sustainable communities and to
      recommend changes needed that would improve the ability of the state and local land use
      planning programs and services in encouraging sustainable communities.
   b) Work in partnership with other government agencies and the private sector to develop a system to
      certify that communities and/or development projects as sustainable.
   c) Continue to work with the Ocean Policy Advisory Advisory Council to evaluate and plan for a
      limited system of marine reserves to address the economic concerns of the commercia l and
      recreational fishing industry and coastal communities while meeting the conservation objectives
      of Statewide Planning Goal 19.
   d) Help maintain a land base to support sustainable agricultural and forest industries in accordance
      with its performance measures regarding land zoned for exclusive farm or forest use outside
      urban growth boundaries.
   e) Allocate grants to local government with a priority on planning activities that directly assist in
      promoting economic development and sustainable communities.
   f) Work with the Oregon Department of Energy and local governments to plan for and site
      renewable energy projects such as wind facilities.
   g) Continue to work with local governments through programs like the Transportation Growth
      Management program to encourage development patterns that foster sustainability.
   h) Work with local governments to develop capitol improvement and infrastructure plans that
      support sustainable development.

10. The Department of State Lands Actions. DSL could undertake the following:

   a) Partner with the Oregon Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of Land Management, NRCS,
      and its lessees to identify and treat noxious weeds on state owned land.
   b) Initiate a program to assess rangeland health and create long-term plans that achieve sustainable
      management of rangelands.
   c) Participate in collaborative efforts to find viable commercial uses and ecologically beneficial
      storage sites for dredging spoils.
   d) Participate in research at the South Slough National Estuary aimed at supporting sustainable
      aquacultural industries and developing scientifically sound techniques for restoration of estuarine
      and riparian habitats.
   e) Explore the potential for wind generation and other alternative energy sources on state-owned
      land.

11. The Oregon University System (OUS) Actions. OUS could establish guidelines and a program to
    expand the reach of the sustainability efforts the universities have already made in curriculum,
    research, and operations.
