Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 - 07


    ESTABLISHING OREGON COMMISSION ON AUTISM SPECTRUM
    DISORDER


    Oregon, like many states across the nation, has experienced a rapid increase in the
    number of individuals diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (“ASD”). Across
    Oregon, families, communities, schools, and social service agencies are struggling
    to address the diverse and complex needs of individuals diagnosed with ASD.
    Services to individuals with ASD are fragmented and inconsistent around the State
    and there is no coordinated effort for increasing the capacity of agencies and
    communities to support individuals with ASD.


    Successful ASD treatment and support requires a more thoughtful, coordinated
    approach to funding, service development and delivery. To move Oregon forward,
    we must develop a means to provide accurate, current information to families and
    professionals regarding ASD interventions, services, supports, and expected
    outcomes. We must ensure that Oregon takes full advantage of the wealth of
    knowledge available about ASD and best practices for treating and supporting
    individuals with ASD. We must work to obtain the maximum benefit from the
    limited federal, state, and local resources available for individuals with ASD and
    their families.


    This Order creates the Oregon Commission on Autism Spectrum Disorder to
    engage stakeholders, to identify priorities, to promote the efficient use of limited
    resources, and to create and facilitate the implementation of a long term strategic
    plan.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


            1.        The Oregon Commission on Autism Spectrum Disorder
    (“Commission”) is established.


            2.        The purpose of the Commission shall be to:


                      a.     Develop and monitor implementation of a ten-year strategic
                             plan, incorporating biennial benchmarks for the state of
                             Oregon to address the growing number of individuals with
                             autism who require services from one or more programs or
                             agencies;
                      b.     Provide leadership and serve as a forum to establish
                             priorities, create performance measures, facilitate
                             collaboration, ensure support, and monitor outcomes;
Wires of theGovernor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 07
    PAGE TWO


                         c.     Engage key stakeholders to develop, promote, and
                                implement state plan goals and outcomes;
                         d.     Advise the Governor and Agency directors on plan
                                implementations that require executive or agency approval
                                                                                                        |
                                and do not require legislative action;                                  |

                         e.     Provide regular updates to the status of plan goals and
                                outcomes to the Governor’s Office; and
                         f.     If legislative action is needed, develop legislative concepts in
                                anticipation of the next legislative session.


            3.           The Commission shall submit its ten-year strategic plan to the
    Governor no later than May 1, 2010. The strategic plan shall:


                         a.     Propose implementation and outcomes to respond to the
                                issues described in the September 2008 ASD Preliminary
                                Findings and Recommendations, authored by the Legislative
                                Assembly’s Autism Spectrum Disorder Workgroup;
                         b.     Clarify the array and structure of necessary services and
                                supports that enable persons with ASD to function to their
                                individual potentials across their lifespan;
                         c.     Make recommendations to increase coordination and
                                collaboration of supports to individuals experiencing ASD
                                and identify policies, capacity, and strategies including
                                interagency agreements and braiding of funding;                         |
                         d.     Define strategies for accessing and promoting ASD best
                                practice standards and research based information to the
                     .          professional community and the public;
                         e.     Estimate and make recommendations regarding the long-
                                term funding and the sources of funding needed to provide
                                the necessary services and supports and to accomplish the
                                coordination of services as described in the strategic plan;
                         f.     Incorporate biennial benchmarks for improving service and
                                support to individuals with ASD; and
                         g.     Propose legislation needed to implement the strategic plan.


           4.            The Commission shall consist of thirteen members who are
    knowledgeable about ASD or about systems that serve people with ASD. All
    members shall serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority. The Commission
    shall include:




                                                                                                   ee
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 - 07
    PAGE THREE


                   a.      One member who is an individual diagnosed with autism and
                           shall serve as a self-advocate, appointed by the Governor;
                   b.      One member who is a parent of a child with autism,
                           appointed by the Governor;
                   c.      One member who is a parent of an adult child with autism,
                           appointed by the Governor;
                   d.      One member who represents autism or disability advocacy
                           organizations, appointed by the Governor;
                   e.      One member who represents the medical community in
                           Oregon, appointed by the Governor;
                   f.      One member who represents the Department of Education,
                           appointed by the Governor;
                   g.      One member who represents the Department of Human
                           Services, appointed by the Governor;
                   h.      One member who represents Higher Education, appointed by
                           the Governor;
                   i.      One member of the Oregon Senate, appointed by the Senate
                           President;                                                   |
                   j.      One member of the Oregon House of Representatives,
                           appointed by the Speaker of the House;
                   k.      One member representing a local education organization,
                           appointed by the Governor;
                   1.      One member representing insurance carriers, appointed by
                           the Governor; and
                   m.      One public member, appointed by the Governor.                |


           5.      The Governor will appoint a Chair and Vice-Chair of the
    Commission from the members of the Commission. The Chair shall establish an
    agenda for the Commission and provide leadership and direction. The Commission
    shall meet at least quarterly at the direction of the Chair or the Governor.


           6.      The Chair may appoint and approve the creation of subcommittees
    of the Commission. The Chair may, on behalf of the Governor, request
    participation of other persons with specialized expertise in ASD or serving ASD
    populations to further the Commission’s work. During the first three months of
    operation, the Commission shail create subcommittees to address the following       |
    topics: Autism Diagnosis and Assessment, Educational Endorsement and
    Competency Based Assessment for Certification of Educational ASD Specialists,
    Reorganization of ASD Educational Services, and Interagency Transition Services.
Wines of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 07
    PAGE FOUR


    Each subcommittee shall submit initial reports to the Commission within four
    months of the initial meeting of the subcommittee.


           7.      A quorum for Commission meetings shall consist of a majority of
    the appointed members. The Commission shall strive to operate by consensus;
    however, the Commission may approve measures and make recommendations
    based on an affirmative vote of a majority of members.


           8.     The members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for
    their activities as members of the Commission. To facilitate meaningful
    participation by parents of individuals with ASD and the designated self-advocate,
    those members may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending Commission
    business, pursuant to ORS 292.495(2), and subject to availability of funds. No
    other members shall be eligible for reimbursement of expenses.


           9.      Staff support to the Commission shall be divided evenly between the
    Department of Human Services and the Oregon Department of Education. If the
    Commission requires assistance of any other state agency, then such agency shall
    provide assistance to the Commission upon request.


           10.    This Order expires on July 1, 2011.


                  Done at Salem, Oregon, this 25th day of March, 2009.




                                              TATheodore R. Kulongoski{_/
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                   Keto
                                                      —
                                                Kate Btown
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                         ne
