Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER              ). 05 - 02


DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN BAKER
COUNTY AND KLAMATH COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER,
CONDITIONS.


Pursuant to ORS 401.055, | find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and weather
patterns have the potential to cause local adverse natural and economic disaster conditions in
Baker and Klamath Counties. Projected weather patterns are not expected to significantly
alleviate these conditions and drought conditions are continuing. These conditions are
expected to have significant environmental and economic impacts on the fish and wildlife,
agriculture and natural resource-dependent communities of Baker and Klamath Counties.


Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department of
Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency Management,

A timely response to this situation bemg vital to the well-being and economic security ofthe
citizens and businesses of Baker and Klamath Counties, I hereby declare a “state of drought
emergency” in Baker and Klamath Counties and direct the following activities:

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1.       ‘The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
assistance in seeking federal resources that may be available to mitigate conditions and to
assist agricultural recovery in Baker and Klamath Counties.

       I.       ‘The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and provide
assistance and regulation for Baker and Klamath Counties as it determines is necessary and
in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

       Ill,     ‘The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist as
needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected drought
conditions in Baker and Klamath Counties.

       IV.    _ Allother departments are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist the effected political
subdivisions in Baker and Klamath Counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 05-02
PAGE TWO




     V.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2005


                                    ne

     Done at Salem, Oregon this   6" day of March, 2005.




                                         GOVERNOR               oo

                                         ATTEST:




                                         ‘SECRETARY OF STATE
