Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 — 09


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
    THREAT OF WILDFIRE


    Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
    situation. Many areas of the state are experiencing record high heat and widespread
    lightning strikes have occurred in recent days. The forecast calls for thunderstorms
    with lightning in many parts of the state and extreme drought conditions exist in
    several areas of Oregon. The extended forecast calls for above normal
    temperatures and below normal precipitation through the remainder of the summer.
    The imminent threat of wildfire exists statewide, including forests in coastal
    counties, the Cascades and eastern and southern Oregon. In fact, numerous
    wildfires are currently burning in the state. This threat is not likely to recede in the
    near future.


    These conditions, in conjunction with the existing nationwide shortage of aviation
    resources available to fight fires, require a concerted and coordinated state
    response. In particular, it is critically important that National Guard resources be
    positioned to respond adequately and effectively to this dangerous and dynamic
    situation.


    Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
    State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    1       The Oregon Military Department, including its Office of Emergency
            Management, and the Oregon Department of Forestry are authorized to
            coordinate the use of National Guard personnel and equipment to perform
            any activity designed to prevent or alleviate damage from the emergency.


    2.      This statewide fire emergency declaration is limited to the use of National
            Guard resources for fire management. Any local government requests for
            state resources must be submitted through county governing bodies to the
            Office of Emergency Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401. If the
            circumstances warrant a broader invocation of the state’s emergency
            management, additional declarations of emergency will be issued.


    3.      This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved, the
            fire season ends, or I expressly rescind this Order.




                                                                                                Materia
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 ~ 09
    PAGE TWO


    This order was made by verbal proclamation at 5:30 pm on the 11" day of July,
    2007 and signed this 12" day of July, 2007in Salem, Oregon.




                                              “Rent
                                                Theodore R. Kulongoski |
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                              L2x4/2l
                                              " Bill Bradbury
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    serve
