Office
     of theGovernor


   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-25


   DECLARATION OF ABNORMAL DISRUPTION OF THE MARKET IN
   CLATSOP, COLUMBIA AND TILLAMOOK COUNTIES DUE TO
   SEVERE WINTER STORM, WINDS AND FLOODING


   On December 3, 2007, I declared a State of Emergency in all areas of the State that
   were affected by the severe winter storm that struck Northwestern Oregon in the
   preceding days. The storm caused high winds, flooding and erosion throughout the
   affected areas and resulted in prolonged power and communications outages and
   evacuations, The recovery from the damages caused by the storm is in its initial
   stages. Many people remain displaced and in need of basic services.

   Oregon Laws 2007, chapter 223, provides that upon a declaration of an abnormal
   disruption in the market that threatens to limit the availability of essential consumer
   goods and services, merchants and wholesalers are prohibited from charging
   unconscionably excessive prices for essential consumer goods and services. The
   law gives the Attorney General the responsibility for regulating the prohibited
   conduct as an unlawful trade practice.


   Pursuant to Oregon Laws 2007, chapter 223, section 3, I find that the severe winter
   storm that struck Clatsop, Columbia and Tillamook Counties December 1-3, 2007,
   resulting in my declaration of a state of emergency at approximately 3:52 p.m. on
   December 3, caused, and threatens to continue to cause, some essential consumer
   goods or services to be not readily available in those parts of the state.

   NOW THEREFOREI HEREBY DECLARE:


           1.      Anabnormal disruption of the market for essential consumer goods
   or services in Clatsop, Columbia and Tillamook Counties is declared for purposes
   of Oregon Laws 2007, chapter 223.


           2.      ‘This declaration will terminate 30 days after its execution unless:
                   a       T extend this declaration for one or more additional 30-day
                           periods by subsequent declarations that abnormal disruption
                           of the market continues to exist; or
                   b.      The Legislative Assembly or I terminate this declaration of
                           ‘an abnormal disruption of the market before 30 days from
                           the date of execution of this declaration.
Office  ofthe Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-25
    PAGE TWO




        Done at Salem, Oregon this 10" day of December, 2007.




                                        br a
                                           Theodore R. KulongoskiJ
                                           GOVERNOR


                                           ATTEST:




                                           [3_/2_Z_
                                           Bill Bradbury
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE
