Wires of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 16


    IMPLEMENTING THE STATE RESPONSE TO PANDEMIC H1N1
    INFLUENZA


    Pandemic H1N1 influenza (once referred to as “swine flu”), a new flu virus that
    causes respiratory illness in people, is widespread throughout Oregon. The Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) first detected the H1N1 virus in the
    United States in April 2009. In June 2009, the World Heath Organization (WHO)
    declared that an HIN! pandemic is underway, which means this infectious disease
    is spreading among people throughout the world. Since September 1, 2009,
    Oregon has experienced 128 hospitalizations and five deaths as a result of H1N1
    influenza.


    Pandemic H1N1 flu symptoms are similar to the symptoms of seasonal flu and
    include fever, cough, sore throat, body aches, runny or stuffy nose, headache,
    nausea, chills and fatigue. Some people have reported diarrhea and vomiting due to
    pandemic H1N1 flu. The pandemic HiN1 virus spreads the same way seasonal
    influenza viruses spread——~mainly from person to person through coughing and
    sneezing by people with the flu. Sometimes people may become infected by
    touching something with flu virus on it and then touching their mouth, nose or
    eyes.



    In Oregon, the Department of Human Services (DHS) Public Health Division is
    taking the lead on providing official state guidance in response to pandemic H1N1
    flu; however, each state agency can and must support this effort. To that end, this
    Order directs all state agencies to (1) use their websites to provide the public with
    accurate information about pandemic H1N1 flu; (2) prepare for pandemic H1N1 flu
    contingencies through business continuity planning; (3) advise employees to
    remain at home while exhibiting flu-like symptoms; (4) encourage vaccination of
    priority groups; and (5) work with federal and local government partners to
    promote these measures statewide.



    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

            1.      On or before October 31, 2009, each state agency shall update its
    website to include a prominent link to the Department of Human Services website,
    www. flu.oregon.gov, where the public can obtain facts about H1N1 influenza.




                                                                                            He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 16
    PAGE TWO


           2.      As soon as possible, all state agencies shall amend their business
    continuity plans to address the agency’s contingency plan during this pandemic
    HIN1 influenza outbreak. Plans shall describe procedures that will be followed if
    this outbreak causes disruption, s o that agencies can restore critical services as
    quickly as possible.


            3.     The Department of Administrative Services (DAS), in cooperation
    with DHS Public Health Division, shall lead a statewide coordination effort to
    provide state agencies with policy guidance and direction regarding the current
    outbreak of the HIN1 flu virus. DAS will advise state employees, in accordance
    with state policy and collective bargaining agreements, to remain at home if they
    exhibit flu-like symptoms. State agencies shall implement DAS policies on an
    expedited basis.


           4.     All state agencies shall encourage priority groups to obtain both the
    seasonal and H1N1 influenza vaccinations as soon as possible. The following
    groups of people have been identified as priority groups by the CDC and the State
                                                                                              |
    of Oregon:                                                                                |
                                                                                              |
                                                                                              |
           a.      Everyone aged 6 months to 24 years;
           b.      Pregnant women;                                                                |
           c.      People caring for, or living with infants, under 6 months of age;
           d.      People aged 25-64 with underlying medical conditions (such as
                   asthma, immune deficiencies, etc.); and
           e.      Health care workers, emergency medical responders and frontline
                   law enforcement and public safety workers.


             5.     All state agencies shall work with their federal, county, city, special
    district, and school district partners to promote an effective response to pandemic
    HIN! influenza statewide, by directing those partners to utilize their websites to
    direct the public to facts about pandemic H1N1 influenza at www.flu.oregon.gov,           |
    create H1N1 business continuity plans, implement clear workplace policies, and            |
    promote the vaccination of priority groups.                                               |


            6.     This Order expires on July 1, 2010.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 16
    PAGE THREE



              Done at Salem, Oregon this 14th day of October, 2009.




                                      1 whey
                                   Theodore R. Kulongoski [
                                   GOVERNOR


                                   ATTEST:




                                   Kate        bs
                                   SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                      ul B
