    ice of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 05-04


WATER REUSE AS AN INTEGRAL COMPONENT OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, WATER CONSERVATION, AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY IN OREGON,


Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, | find that:

   WHEREAS the people of the State of Oregon have a long history offinding innovative
solutions to challenging and complex problems;

   WHEREAS the State of Oregon’s strategic plan, Oregon Shines, reflects a balance of the
community, environmental and economic values that we hold for our state:

   WHEREAS analysis of current trends described by the Oregon Benchmarks and by the
Oregon State of the Environment Report documents certain threats to our quality of life and
the state’s environmental and economic sustainability;

   WHEREAS, for purposes of the Executive Order, water reuse is defined as the beneficial
use of reclaimed water (treated wastewater) for such planned uses as landscape and golf
course    irrigation; agricultural irrigation; industrial and commercial uses; recreation;
groundwater recharge; environmental enhancement; and other uses permitted under Oregon
law;


   WHEREAS water reuse provides an environmentally-sound method for managing
wastewater, while conserving water and replenishing valuable water supplies;

   WHEREAS water reuse can be a source of water to communities during drought
conditions;


   WHEREAS the Environmental Protection Agency, a federal agency, encourages water
reuse as a means for managing wastewater under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, 33
USC §§ 1251 et seq.


   WHEREAS Oregon statutes and regulations protect public health and environmental
quality, and require a specitic level of water quality and treatment corresponding to each
beneficial use of reclaimed water; and

   WHEREAS the Oregon Environmental Quality Commission encourages water reuse for
beneficial purposes using methods that assure that public health and environmental quality of
the state are protected;
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 05-04
PAGE TWO



NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

1.   The State of Oregon shall promote policies and programs to encourage and support water
     reuse, to work together to overcome institutional and regulatory barriers and funding
     constraints, to ensure protection of public health and environmental quality, to encourage
     public acceptance of water reuse, and to help this state meet its overall water needs,

2.   The State of Oregon shall improve its policies and intemal operations to encourage more
     water reuse by:


            a,   State agencies that participated in the Urban Reuse Task Force that was
                 created subsequent to the passage of Senate Bill 820 by the Seventy-second
                 Oregon Legislative Assembly, Chapter 788, Oregon Laws 2003, shall review
                 agency policies and rules, as they are revised, and make appropriate revisions
                 to those policies to remove potential regulatory barriers and to encourage
                 water reuse in Oregon Within one year ofthe effective date of this Executive
                 Order, such agencies shall report in writing to the Governor's Office regarding
                 their progress under this Executive Order. Within 18 months ofthe effective
                 date ofthis Executive Order, the Governor's Office will coordinate with the
                 relevant agencies to review their actions and to identify possible next steps,

            b.   The Department of Environmental Quality is responsible for leading the
                 coordination among state agencies, businesses, non-profit organizations, local
                 governments and other citizens in the development of guidance describing the
                 regulatory and permitting requirements for water reuse projects.

            c.   The Office of Regulatory Streamlining is responsible for negotiating and
                 executing a Memorandum of Understanding among the relevant state agencies
                 that expressly sets forth each agency's responsibilities as they pertain to the
                 approval of water reuse projects.


            d.   The Water Resources Department, Department of Human Services, and
                 Department of Environmental Quality shall coordinate outreach activities that
                 encourage water reuse and shall meet annually to determine whether agency
                 procedures and permitting activities are consistent with this Executive Order.
Office  of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 05-04
PAGE THREE




          e.   The Department of Environmental Quality, Department of Human Services,
               Water Resources Department, and the Department of Consumer and Business
               Services shall collaborate, consistent with each agency’s existing authority, to
               allow water reuse pilot projects that are protective of public health and the
               environment, and shall work to resolve issues with other relevant state
               agencies regarding water reuse.

Done at Salem, Oregon this 21st day of March, 2005.




                                             GOVERNOR

                                             ATTEST:




                                              SECRETARY OF STATE
