Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 - 08


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN TILLAMOOK,
    LINCOLN, COOS, CLATSOP AND CURRY COUNTIES AND COASTAL
    PORTIONS OF LANE AND DOUGLAS COUNTIES DUE TO
    LIMITATIONS ON OCEAN COMMERCIAL AND SPORT SALMON
    FISHING


    Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that the dramatic and persistent decline in
    Sacramento River fall Chinook salmon available for harvest by the ocean fishing
    industry will result in the elimination of a viable commercial salmon fishing season
    along the Oregon coast. These conditions have created an imminent emergency.

    These fishing closures will have profound consequences on many communities
    including significant increases in unemployment, human suffering, financial losses,
    and other stark economic impacts along the Oregon coast.

    The affected areas are Tillamook, Lincoln, Coos, Clatsop and Curry Counties and
    the coastal portions of Douglas and Lane Counties that are west of Range 8 West,
    Willamette Meridian. I therefore declare a State of Emergency in the
    abovementioned counties and portions of counties.

    NOW THEREFORE, iT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

            1.     All state agencies shall work in a cooperative and coordinated
    manner in order to mitigate the impacts of this emergency; provide expedited
    service and resources to persons and businesses adversely affected by the
    emergency; and focus state efforts in a manner most likely to relieve the
    unemployment, human suffering, financial loss and other economic impacts of this
    emergency. In addition to the specific measures discussed in this Order, all state
    agencies are encouraged to think broadly and creatively about actions that agencies
    can take to address this emergency. Agencies shall communicate such ideas to the
    Office of the Governor. Response to the emergency shall be directed and
    coordinated by the Office of the Governor, in coordination with the Office of
    Emergency Management (OEM).

            2.      OEM shall coordinate with affected counties to provide assistance to
    prevent reasonable threats to life or property, including the pursuit of available
    federal funding or resources to assist in mitigating the effects of this
    emergency. OEM shall also facilitate a partnership with federal agencies to help
    relieve the current salmon emergency and assist affected counties with their
    ongoing emergency preparedness efforts.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09~ 03
    PAGE TWO

           3.      The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, which operates under
    the direction of the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, is strongly encouraged to
    develop recreational and commercial fishing seasons, consistent with state
    conservation plans and the federal frameworkin order to help mitigate the effects
    of this emergency on coastal economies.

           4,      The Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) will continue to
    liaison with the seafood commodity commissions, particularly the Salmon
    Commission, to provide a communication link between state government and the
    commercial fishing fleet. The ODA will explore opportunities to maintain a
    Salmon Commission structure during the salmon fishing shutdown.

           5.      Consistent with the collective bargaining agreements, statutes and
    administrative rules, all state agencies shall seek to hire qualified individuals
    impacted by the emergency declared in this Order when filling vacancies or making
    temporary appointments, for a period of one year from the date of this Order.

           6.      Department of Community Colleges and Workforce Development
    shall pursue all available retraining opportunities for ocean fishing industry
    workers wishing to pursue alternative employment and shall coordinate the timely
    delivery of state workforce services and other human and community services to
    affected workers and families.

            7.     Oregon Employment Department shall offer re-employment
    assistance programs to affected ocean fishing industry workers.

           8.      As in 2006 and 2008, Oregon Parks and Recreation Department
    shall conduct outreach to displaced employees of the commercial and recreational
    fishing industries and make them aware of any seasonal positions available this
    summer at state parks along the coast.

            9.      Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall provide opportunities
    to apply for grant funds to support fish habitat enhancement along critical salmon
    streams in Oregon for the purpose of accelerating the rebuilding of fish populations
    and creating new and meaningful work opportunities for displaced workers.

            10.    Oregon Housing and Community Services (OHCS) shall work with
    the Oregon Food Bank to provide additional food and nutritional support for
    affected Oregonians. Where possible, OHCS is directed to work with housing
    partners to provide additional assistance for emergency shelter, rental housing, and




                                                                                           ee
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 ~ 08
    PAGE THREE


    permanent housing for affected households in need. OHCS is further directed to
    work with local community based organizations to provide additional energy
    assistance and weatherization services to affected Oregonians as appropriate.


           11.     Oregon Economic and Community Development Department shall
    provide technical assistance to local governments, public ports, and businesses that
    experience adverse effects on their operations or revenues due to this emergency.

            12.    The Oregon Department of Revenue shail investigate and pursue
    options for affected Oregonians to obtain income tax credits and refunds and other
    financial assistance.


            13.     The Oregon Tourism Commission is directed to actively inform the
    public of continued recreational fishing opportunities and other tourism activities
    along the Oregon Coast and to highlight travel to the Oregon Coast, as appropriate
    within their overall marketing strategies.


            14.    The Department of Human Services shall continue to provide mental
    health and treatment services, alcohol and drug treatment services, nutrition
    programs, domestic violence assistance, and medical assistance to Oregonians in
    coastal communities, with particular attention to the increased needs in coastal
    communities caused by this emergency.


           15.     All other state agencies are directed to provide appropriate state
    resources and to seek any available private and federal dollars to provide
    emergency assistance to affected individuals, families, businesses, and
    communities, and to deliver such assistance in the most expeditious manner.

            16.    All state agencies specifically referenced in this Order shall report to
    the Office of the Governor sixty days of the date of this Order about progress made
    and every sixty days thereafter, until conclusion of the emergency.


            17.    This Order expires May 1, 2010, unless otherwise amended.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 - 08
    PAGE FOUR

              Done at Salem, Oregon this 17th day of April, 2009.   i




                                    Trae Hongo
                                   Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                    GOVERNOR


                                    ATTEST:




                                     UAeany—
                                    Kate Brown
                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
