    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02

    SUSTAINABILITY        FOR THE 21sTCENTURY

    Pursuanto my authorityas Governorof the Stateof Oregon,I find that:

    Sustainability representsa significant economic opportunity for the State of
    Oregon. Sustainability enables state and local government to operate in a more
    efficient and effective manner. Sustainability benefits all Oregonians, urban and
    rural. Oregon prospers when the economy, the environment, and our communities
    support each other.

    Oregon's business and higher education sectors increasingly are focusing on the
    opportunities presented by sustainabledevelopment. The Oregon Business Plan
    has identified Sustainable Industries as a key development cluster for the state. The
    Oregon University System is pursuing opportunities to increase the focus on
    researchand development related to sustainabletechnologies.

    ExecutiveOrder03-03directedthe OregonSustainabilityBoard and certainstate
    agenciesto developpolicies andpracticesto makeOregona more sustainablestate,
    consistentwith and in furtheranceof the goalsregardingsustainabilityadoptedby
    the Legislative Assemblyin 2001.

    The primary intent of Executive Order 03-03 was to establishmeaningful and
    measurable sustainability planning within state agenciesand to encourage state
    agenciesto lead by example in this important area.

    The efforts of the OregonSustainabilityBoard andforwardthinking stateagency
    directorsandpersonnelhaveresultedin the following achievements:

            All 20 stateagenciesincludedin ExecutiveOrder03-03developed
            sustainabilityplans for their agenciesandcontinueto updatethoseplans
            and integratetheminto their budgetaryandstrategicplanning.

            Environmental managementsystem ("EMS") plans have been developed
            within three state agencies.

            The state light duty vehicle fleet is transitioning to alternative fuel and
            hybrid vehicles and is using increasing amounts of ethanol and biodiesel.




.
    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02
    PAGE TWO


                The state established a "green" building policy requiring all new
                state buildings to meet, at a minimum, the U.S. Green Building
                Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
                ("LEED") program's silver equivalency status, with major
                renovations also requiring LEED certification.
                State procurement practices are beginning to inc.1udelife cycle costs
                and sustainability considerations when making contracting and
                purchasing decisions, &om computer equipment to janitorial supplies.
                The state dedicated L.L. Stub Stewart State Park, the first Oregon
                state park developed with sustainability as a primary objective.

                The Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) is
                incorporating sustainability into its $1.3 billion bridge repair
                program. One benefit of this innovative approachis that
                environmental baselines are assessedbefore design begins for each
                project, resulting in more efficient permitting, better environmental
                results and millions of dollars of projected cost savings.

       Collectively, theseandothersuccesses resultedin economic,environmental
       and communitybenefitsto the stateandprove that statepolicy makersdo
       not needto choosebetweenthe economyandthe environmentwhen making
       decisionsaimed at providing a prosperousandsustainablefuture for
       Oregonians.


    NOW, THEREFORE,         IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:
    1. The Oregon Sustainability Board ("Board") shall continue as an executive
       branch board serving at the pleasure of the Governor. The Board shall consist
       of 11 members representing business,local government and natural resource
       sectors and shall reflect the geographic diversity of Oregon. The members of
       the Board, including the Chair, will be appointed by the Governor. The Chair
       shall establish the agenda for Board meetings and generally provide leadership
       and direction to the Board. A quorum for Board meetings shall consist of a
       majority of the appointed members. The Board shall strive to operate by
       consensus;however, the Board may approve measuresand make
       recommendations based on an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
       present. The members of the Board shall not be entitled to the




                                                                                        @
                                                                                        :=
.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02
PAGE THREE


   reimbursementof expensesor to the per diem provided in ORS292.495.

2. The Board is directedto manageandcarry out the following primary objectives:

   a. AssistLocal Governmentsandthe PrivateSectorwith the Develo~mentof
      S~tainabilitv Practices.

                 i. The Board shall coordinate a multi-agency effort to develop
                 a "Sustainable Practices" toolbox for state and local
                 governments and for the private sector. The Department of
                 Administrative Services (DAS) and the Oregon Economic and
                 Community Development Department (OECDD) shall lead this
                 effort. The Board, together with DAS and OECDD, shall
                 detennine the appropriate components of the toolboxes, which
                 may include information regarding best practices, sustainability
                 certification programs and processes,training opportunities and
                 casestudies.

                 ii. The Board shall coordinate the development of a
                 Sustainability Awards Program to promote and advance the
                 inclusion of sustainablepractices in government and the private
                 sector. OECDD shall be the agency primarily responsible for
                 assisting the Board with this effort, with staff assistance,as
                 needed, from the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the
                 Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), the Department of
                 Land Conservation and Development (DLCD), DAS and the
                 Department of Energy (DOE).

   b. Promote SustainableEconomic Investment and Develo~ment. In this area,
      the Board shall give priority to efforts related to renewable energy and
      working landscapes.

                 i. The Board's energy focus requires working with the private
                 sector, academic institutions, non-profits and state and local
                 governments to maximize practices in Oregon that create
                 economic opportunities, while also promoting renewable and
                 efficient energy use, reducing greenhousegas emissions and
                 reducing material use and costs. One priority area should be to
                  assistefforts to develop viable bioenergy markets in Oregon.




                                                                                    @
                                                                                    =.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02
PAGE FOUR


                 ii. The working landscapesfocus requires working with the
                 natural resource sectors, academic institutions, non-profits, state
                 and local government and consumersto incent and promote
                 practices that help agricultural, ranching, forestry and fishing
                 sectorsachieve value-added market opportunities that are built
                 and marketed around sustainablepractices. Such opportunities
                 include replication of the Oregon Natural Beef model in the
                 wood products and agricultural sectorsand efforts to strengthen
                 initiatives, such as the Oregon SustainableAgriculture Resource
                 Center (OSARC), that promote better coordination,
                 collaboration and integration of public and private efforts and
                 resourcesand aim to enhanceinvestment and job creation and
                 retention while also achieving better environmental results.

  c. Advance Sustainabilitv Perfonnance in State Government. The Board shall
     continue to work with state agencies that have developed sustainability
     plans and shall assist agency efforts to update and improve sustainability
     planning and to monitor and measure achievements. The Board shall also
     oversee the following new pilot initiatives with identified state agencies and
     shall receive regular reports from the agencies on progress:

                   i. DAS shall coordinate a State Procurement Interagency
                   Team, that will include DOE, ODOT and DEQ. This
                   interagency team shall develop recommended procurement
                   acquisition models and training that take into account relevant
                   sustainability principles, including, but not limited to, life-
                   cycle cost assessment,energy impact assessment,and vendor
                   take-back, re-use, re-charge, and re-build assessment. This
                   task shall be completed by December 31, 2006.

                   ii. DAS shall coordinate a GreenhouseGas Emissions
                   Interagency Team which shall include DOE, ODOT, and
                   DEQ. This interagency team shall develop a methodology for
                   state agenciesto develop greenhousegas emission baseline
                   assessmentsand recommend best practices for reducing
                   greenhousegas emissions. This task shall be completed by
                   December 31,2006.




                                                                                       @
                                                                                       =
EXECUTIVE   ORDER NO. 06-02
PAGE FIVE


               iii. Beginning in 2007, DAS shall provide annual reports to the
               Sustainability Board detailing the greenhousegas reductions
               that have been achieved within each agency vehicle fleet.
               Each state agency that operatesa vehicle fleet shall develop a
               greenhousegas reduction baseline and annual reduction targets
               utilizing the methodology developed by the Greenhouse Gas
               Interagency Team and shall annually report emission
               reductions to DAS. This report shall include the volume of
               ethanol and biodiesel used by agency fleets and any costs
               savings attributable to the use of more fuel efficient vehicles
               and alternative fuels.

               iv. DAS shall collaborate and coordinate with California and
               Washington on possible regional purchasing strategies that
               aggregatethe three states' purchasing power to maximize
               environmental and economic value. DAS shall report to the
               Board regarding these efforts.

               v. DAS, in coordinationwith the StrategicIT InvestmentTeam
               andDEQ, shall developelectronicwastedisposalprocedures
               that enableandencourageproducttakeback, protectthe
               securityof information,recycleusableequipmentand protect
               the environment.This taskshallbe completedby June30,2006.


               vi. DOE shall coordinate an Energy Efficiency Interagency
               Teanl that will include DAS and the Oregon University
               System. The Energy Efficiency Interagency Teanl shall
               develop strategiesto meet the Governor's previously
               announcedgoal of 20 percent energy efficiency savings in
               state government and education institutions in ten years,
               including consideration of the expandeduse of energy service
               contracts in the public sector.

               vii. OECDD, in coordination with DOE, and within existing
               funding and authority, shall establish and administer a
               renewable energy feasibility revolving loan fund to assist
               community renewable energy projects develop the infonIlation




                                                                                 @
                                                                                 ==
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02
PAGE SIX


                     neededto assessthe technicalfeasibility of developing
                     renewableenergyprojects.

                     viii. The Department of State Lands is encouraged to
                     coordinate an interagency team including ODF, DOE and
                     DLCD to develop a streamlined process for developing
                     renewable energy on state lands and waterways and for issuing
                     leases for private sector development on state lands and
                     waterways.

3. The Board shallbe assistedin carryingout its activitiesby the following:

       a. Sustainabilitv Leadershi~Team. A Sustainability Leadership Team
          shall be comprised of the following: the Governor's Sustainability
          Policy Advisor (Chair), the Sustainability Board Chair and the Directors
          of the following agencies or their designees:DAS, OECDD, DOE,
          ODOT, DEQ, and such other members as may be requested by the
          Governor. The Leadership Team shall meet regularly, shall advise the
          Governor and the Board, as appropriate, and shall assistthe Board with
          carrying out its responsibilities under this Executive Order.

       b. Interagencv Sustainability Network. DAS shall coordinate an
          Interagency Sustainability Network ("Network"). The Network shall be
          an infonnal forum of state agencypersonnel. The purpose of the
          Network is to exchangeideas and practices and to develop new
          approachesto sustainability among state agencies.

       c.   Oregon Solutions. Oregon Solutions shall periodically report to the
            Board regarding opportunities for sustainability related projects. The
            Board shall provide guidance to Oregon Solutions and to state agencies
            regarding projects that simultaneously addresseconomic,
            environmental, and community concerns, as well as the ten community
            objectives listed in ORS 184.423(2). The Board and the Leadership
            Team shall identify opportunities for state agenciesto participate in
            Oregon Solutions projects.

       d. SustainabilitYWeb Site. DAS will ensurethatthe state'ssustainability
          website,SustainableOregon.net,
                                       continuesto be a resourcefor the
          public andinterestedstakeholders.




                                                                                     @
                                                                                     =.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-02
PAGE SEVEN


4. Oregon University System. The Governor's Office shall work with a person
   designated by the Chancellor to develop and carry out a sustainability initiative
   for the Oregon University System. The Chancellor's designated coordinator
   will work with the institutions of higher education, the Academic Excellence
   Committee of the Board of Higher Education, the Oregon Innovation Council,
   OECDD and other state agenciesto assessthe feasibility of, and to implement
   researchand development efforts regarding, areasthat include, but are not
   limited to: (1) green building and forest products; (2) water systems and
   management; and (3) renewable energy. The coordinator shall also facilitate
   efforts to implement the OUS Sustainability Plan and to develop further
   policies to integrate sustainability into academic programs, operations and
   researchand outreach within the university system. The coordinator shall work
   with the Governor's Office, the Board of Higher Education, the Oregon
   University System, the Oregon Innovation Council, OECDD and other state
   agencies to secure funding to accomplish this initiative.

5   ExecutiveOrdersEO-O3-03andEO-OO-O?
                                     are superseded
                                                  by this Executive
    Order andrescinded.


                      Done
                         atPortland,
                                 7'            11 aYofJan~6

                                             GOVERNOR




                                             L              +---~~~-
                                             'SECRETARY OF STATE


                                                       y




                                                                                       @
                                                                                       ==
