Office
    of theGovernor


  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 03-12


  DETERMINATION OF
                 A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERG ENCY IN UNION
  COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER CONDI
                                            TIONS.

 Pursuant to ORS 401.055, | find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and
 weather patterns have the potential to cause an imminent natural and economic disaster in
 Union County (the "Affected County"). Projected weather pattems are not expected to
 significantly alleviate the current conditions; drought conditions are continuing. These
 conditions are expected to have profound consequences on the Affected County’s
 agricultural, livestock, and natural resources and are likely to result in stark economic
 impacts.


 Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department of
 Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency Management.

 A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic security of
 the citizens and businesses of the Affected County, I am therefore declaring a “state of
 drought cmergency” in the Affected County and directing the following activities;


 1T IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


         I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
 provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and effect
 agricultural recovery in the Affected County.

        Tl.      The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and provide
 assistance and regulation for the Affected County as it determines is necessary in
 accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


         Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
  as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected
  conditions in the Affected County.

          IV.    All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
  and to provide     appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist affected
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 03-12
  PAGE TWO.




       %      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2003


       Done at Salem, Oregon this 27 day of August, 2003




                                         Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                         GOVERNOR

                                         ATTEST:



                                           ill Bradbury
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE
