Wires of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 — 24

   ' OREGON’S ALTERNATIVE FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE


    Oregon’s oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions are largely driven by our
    dependence on traditional gasoline based vehicles. Today in Oregon over 3.1
    million motor vehicles are registered for roadway use and Oregonians spend more
    than $2 billion annually for transportation fuels. To reduce our dependency on
    gasoline and diesel fuels, and to prepare Oregon for our next generation of
    transportation options, we must invest in alternative fuel vehicles and the
    infrastructure necessary to support them. Shifting towards alternative fuel vehicles
    will directly translate into reduced carbon emissions, increased energy
    independence and insulation from rising gasoline prices. We can accelerate
    Oregonian’s transition from vehicles fuelled exclusively from petroleum by
    supporting infrastructure for vehicles that are fuelled by alternative energy sources,
    including electricity, ethanol, bio-diesel, hydrogen, natural gas and fuel cell based
    vehicles.


    Oregon is positioned to lead the nation in establishing the infrastructure necessary
    for a new, greener transportation system. Oregon’s commitment to sustainability
    and land use laws, and its integrated urban design make it the ideal starting point
    for the introduction of innovative vehicles. Oregon also has one of the highest per
    capita rates for early hybrid and plug-in electric vehicle ownership. The State
    already has demonstrated its commitment to investing in renewable energy,
    reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating a sustainable future.


    Many of the world’s leading automakers have pledged to bring vehicles to market
    over the next two years that are not solely gasoline based. Though the technology
    for engineering and manufacturing these alternative energy vehicles is steadily
    advancing, the infrastructure needed to ensure seamless operation and provide
    certainty to the traveling public has not kept pace.

    As the private marketplace transitions to new technologies, it is imperative that the
    State of Oregon, local partners and private companies work together to build a
    consistent and reliable refueling infrastructure that enables consumers to make the
    switch to new, greener vehicles. This Order creates the Governor’s Alternative
    Fuel Vehicle Infrastructure Working Group to address the challenges of building
    and maintaining a consistent and reliable alternative fuel infrastructure.

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

            1,     The Governor’s Alternative Fuel Vehicle Infrastructure Working
    Group (Working Group) is established.
Wiis of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 - 24
    PAGE TWO


             2.    The Working Group shall consist of 11-13 members appointed by
    the Governor. The Working Group shall consist of members with expertise in
    alternative fuel vehicles and infrastructure, who will be drawn from the
    transportation and utility industries, state and local government, the business
    community and the energy efficiency and conservation community, as well as
    members of the general public.

             3.    Members of the Working Group shall serve at the pleasure of the              |
    Governor.                                                                                   |

             4.    The Governor shall appoint the chair of the Working Group, who
    shall establish an agenda and provide leadership and direction for the Working
    Group. The chair may appoint and approve the creation of subcommittees for the
    Working Group. The chair may, on behalf of the Governor, request participation of
    other individuals that he or she determines could add to the success of the Working
    Group.


             5.    The Working Group shall compile, review and evaluate various
    market and policy research on existing alternative fuel infrastructure policies,
    procedures and programs. This review shall be organized to reflect not only current
    opportunities and barriers to the deployment of alternative fuel vehicles but also
    future opportunities for leadership and growth in the alternative fuel vehicle
    marketplace.


             6.    The Working Group shall strive to operate by consensus; however,
    the Working Group may approve measures and make recommendations based on
    an affirmative vote of the majority of the members present.


             7.    In order to assist companies to bring these new products to market
    and prepare Oregon’s citizens for this next generation of transportation options, the
    Working Group shall:


                   a.      Identify opportunities to encourage consistency with the
                           design, standards and operations of EV charging stations,
                           including signage;
                   b.      Draft design standards for “smart charging” which can be
                           implemented in order to best utilize the existing electric
                           power grid;




                                                                                            q
                                                                                            E
                                                                                            #
    Wires of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 — 24
        PAGE THREE


                        c.     Develop a plan to work with the private sector to build and
                               maintain alternative fuel stations within Oregon by October
                               1, 2010;
                        d.     Provide a forum for citizen input on how to make sure that
                               alternative fuel technologies enhance Oregon’s communities
                               and livability;
                        e.     Explore possible standards and guidelines for residential
_                              charging infrastructure, including charging at apartment and
                               condominium communities;
                        f.     Assist in implementing a public awareness campaign about
                               how to utilize public and private investments in the
                               alternative fuel infrastructure; and
                        g.     Provide written recommendations to the Governor on or
                               before December 31, 2009.


               8.       The Oregon Department of Transportation shall staff the Working
        Group. All other state agencies shall provide assistance to the Working Group
        upon request.


               9.      Working Group members are not entitled to reimbursement of
        expenses or per diem provided in ORS 292.495.


               10.      This Order shall remain in effect until December 31, 2009.

                        Done at Salem, Oregon this Qbeday of September, 2008.



                                                 |        ANS
                                              Theodore R. Kulongaéki
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              ATTEST:




                                              Bill Bradbury
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                              es
