Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO, 04-04


OFFICE OF RURAL POLICY AND RURAL POLICY ADVISORY COMMITTEE


Pursuant to my authority as Governor ofthe State of Oregon, I find that:


Oregon is a state of great economic and geographic diversity. While that diversity brings us
strength, it also challenges us to meet the needs of all communities, both urban and rural.
Although Oregon is challenged by a sluggish economy, poverty and hunger, rural Oregon is
even more deeply affected because the natural resource base that has been the foundation of
rural Oregon’s economy has changed dramatically over the past two decades.


The diversity within “Rural Oregon” (as defined below) can be best understood by
understanding the following geographic distinctions:
   Frontier Rural ~ a geographic area that is at least 75 miles by road from a community
      of less than 2,000 individuals. It is characterized by an absence of densely populated
       areas, small communities, individuals working in their communities. an economy
       dominated by natural resources and agricultural activities, and few paved streets or
       roads.
   ©   Isolated Rural — a geographic area that is at least 100 miles by road from a
       community of 3,000 or more individuals. 1t is characterized by low population
       density (fewer than five people per square mile), an economy of natural resources and
       agricultural activity, large areas of land owned by the state or federal government and
       predominately unpaved streets.
   ©   Rural —a geographic area that is at least 30 miles by road from an urban community
       (50,000 or more). It is characterized by some commercial business. two or fewer
       densely populated areas in a county, an economy changing from a natural resource
       ‘base to more commercial interests and reasonable, but not immediate, access to health
       care,

   ¢   Urban Rural —a geographic area that is at least 10 miles by road from an urban
       community. It is characterized by many individuals commuting to an urban area to
       work or shop, an economy with few natural resource and agricultural activities, easy
       and immediate access to health care services and numerous paved streets and roads.


Rural Oregon communities are in need: unemployment in those communtties is often many
percentage points higher than the state average: Rural Oregon communities have significant
threshold issues to overcome to compete with urban communities for economic and
community development resources; the lack of an industrial base in most rural communities,
makes funding for education, health care, economic development and other social services
more difficult to attain; and finally, Rural Oregon communities often lack administrative
mechanisms and infrastructure to share information and to collectively construct solutions to
its problems.
Office ofthe Governor
       Orego

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-04
PAGE TWO


Oregon's drive to economic and social prosperity must include all areas of our state,
including Rural Oregon. To that end, coordination should begin with state agencies but
extend to those Rural Oregon communities identified above.


NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


1.   The Office of Rural Policy (the “Office”) is hereby established, The Office shall be
     staffed by the Office of the Governor or the Department of Administrative Services and
     funded through the Department of Administrative Services to the extent such funds are so
     identified. On behalfof the Office and to the extent allowed by law, the Department of
     Administrative Services, may accept funds from any lawful source, including the federal
     government, and may expend those funds in accordance with law to fulfill this Order.


2.   The Office shall coordinate the formulation of rural policy for the state. Through
     research, promotion and coordination of activities throughout Oregon, the Office shall
     foster and represent the interests of Rural Oregon as described in this Order.

3.   The Office shall serve as a clearing house for the collection and dissemination of
     information about issues that are of special interest to Rural Oregon. It shall serve as a
     liaison between elected officials in rural Oregon, the Govemnor and the executive branch
     and the Legislative Assembly. In addition, the Office shall assist in educating members
     ofthe Legislative Assembly about issues ofspecial interest to Rural Oregon and shall
     evaluate the effects ofstate policies on those areas in coordination with the departments
     identified in paragraph 4 below, and report those effects to the Governor and Legislative
     Assembly.


4.   The director of each the following state departments shall identify at least one individual
     from each department as a Rural Policy Liaison responsible for working with the Office:
                            Department of Fish and Wildlife;




            revo me pe se
                            Department of Agriculture;
                            Department of Forestry;
                            Economic and Community Development Department;
                            Department of Environmental Quality;
                            Department of Land Conservation and Development:
                            Department of Education;
                            Department of Energy;
                            Department of Human Services; and
                            Department of Water Resources
                            Housing and Community Services
                            Oregon University System
Office ofthe Governor
StateofOregor

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-04
PAGE THREE

     The Rural Policy Liaisons shall coordinate relevant portions of their departments’ work
     with the Office and shall facilitate a dialogue between their departments and rural
     Oregon. Additional departments of state government may, upon the request of the
     Governor, be required to appoint Rural Policy Liaisons.


5.   All departments of state government shall cooperate fully with the Office in the
     performance of its mandate. In particular, the Economic and Community Development
     Department shall work with the Office and rural communities to explore economic
     development opportunities throughout Rural Oregon.


6,   The Office shall report to the Governor through the Govemor’s Natural Resources and
     Intergovernmental Relations advisors at their request but shall report not less than
     quarterly.

7.   Within ninety days of the date ofthis Order, the Office shall provide an initial report to
     the Governor. That report shall list the Rural Policy Liaisons named by the departments
     listed above and shall detail the processes that will be used by the Office and the Rural
     Policy Liaisons and the deliverables to be completed to implement this Order as well as
     identify available funds from the Department of Administrative Services. The processes,
     implementation and deliverables to fulfill this Order shall be scoped to the available
     funds.

8.   The Rural Policy Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) is hereby created, The
     Committee shall work closely with the Office in the performance of the Office’s
     mandate.


9.   The Committee shall consist of fourteen members. The membership ofthe Committee              |
     shall include a geographic distribution of Frontier Rural, Isolated Rural, Rural and Urban
     Rural areas of Oregon. The members of the Committee must be residents of Rural
     Oregon. The members shall be appointed as follows:
            a.    ten members shall be appointed by the Governor;
            .     the President of the Senate shall appoint one member ofthe Senate who is a
                  member of the Democratic Party and shall appoint one member ofthe Senate
                  who is a member ofthe Republican Party, in consultation with that party’s
                  leadership; and
            c.    the Speaker ofthe House of Representatives shall appoint one member of the
                  House of Representatives who is a member  of the Republican Party and shall
                  appoint one member of the House of Representatives who is a member of the
                  Democratic Party, in consultation with that party’s leadership.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-04
PAGE FOUR


10. The chair of the Committee shall be elected by the Committee.


11. A quorum for Committee meetings shall consist of a majority ofthe appointed members.
   The Committee shall strive to operate by consensus; however, the Committee may
   approve measures and make recommendations based on a vote of a majority of the
   quorum present.



12. The members of the Committee shall not be entitled to the reimbursement of expenses or
   to the per diem provided in ORS 292.495.


13, The Committee shall meet quarterly and develop an annual report on the needs of Rural
   Oregon. The report shall be coordinated with the relevant state agencies and with the
   Governor's Natural Resources and Intergovernmental Relations advisors. The report
   shall be submitted to the Governor and to the Legislative Assembly by December 31 of
   each calendar year, beginning in 2004.


14. This Order expires on January 31, 2007.




       Done at John Day, Oregon, this
                                        ay               il, 2004.


                                                             (            B Oe
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              ATTEST:




                                              SECRETARY OF STA
