Wires of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09-03


    CONNECTING OREGON’S VETERANS WITH SERVICES AND
    BENEFITS


    On March 27, 2008, I executed Executive Order 08-08, creating the Governor’s
    Task Force on Veterans Services. I charged the Task Force to review all Oregon
    veterans’ policy and services and determine what works, what does not and how
    Oregon could enhance its services and benefits to veterans. On December 10,
    2008, the Task Force presented me with its final report.


    The Task Force’s report gives us a road map on how to reach out to veterans across
    Oregon and connect them with the services they need. A key finding of the report
    is that in Oregon substantial amounts of federal aid are left unrealized. In fact, in
    Oregon, while 351,000 veterans are identified through the federal census, only
    80,000 veterans are in the system and receiving some level of benefits. The first
    step in providing increased service to our veterans is identifying who they are and
    what they need.


    To better identify our veterans and ensure that they receive the highest levels of
    service and benefits available, this Order directs all state agencies to query clients,
    customers, and program participants regarding their interest in learning more about
    veterans’ benefits and services. By collecting this basic information, we can work
    to connect veterans and their families with available veterans’ services and benefits,
    and improve our veterans’ quality of life.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


            1.      On or before January 1, 2010, all state agencies shall develop and
    implement a process to solicit information from clients, customers and program
    participants about their interest in learning more about veterans’ benefits and
    services.

            2.       Ata minimum, each state agency shall ensure that all applications
    for benefits, interest forms, and other electronic or written documents of initial
    exchange with Oregon’s public are updated so that individuals are queried about
    their interest receiving information about veterans’ benefits and services.

            3.     To ensure an efficient use of state resources, whenever possible,
    applications, forms and other electronic or written documents shall be updated with
    veterans’ services and benefits questions in conjunction with other regularly
    scheduled updates, maintenance or revisions. Forms and documents containing




                                                                                              ee
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09-03
    PAGE TWO


    veterans’ services and benefits questions should be phased in to agency use to
    minimize cost.


            4.      All documents including veterans’ services and benefits questions
    shall include a statement informing the responding individual that an affirmative
    answer will cause the agency to forward their contact information to the Oregon
    Department of Veterans’ Affairs.


            5.       Agencies shall only request information regarding interest in
    veterans’ services and benefits on a voluntary basis. Responses regarding interest
    in veterans service and benefit information shall not be required or used in any way
    by agencies in making decisions regarding hiring or the provision of services or
    benefits.


            6.      When an individual indicates an interest in receiving additional
    information about veterans’ benefits or services, the individual’s personal contact
    information, including name, address, telephone number and email address, if
    available, shall be captured and forwarded in a timely manner to the Oregon
    Department of Veterans’ Affairs.

            7.     The Oregon Department of Veterans’ Affairs shall contact
    individuals who have indicated an interest in receiving information about veterans’
    benefits and services and provide any information requested.

            8.     On or before January 1, 2011, the Department of Administrative
    Services shall conduct an audit of state agencies to measure the level of compliance
    with this Order and recommend ways to improve data collection.

                     Done at Salem, Oregon                of January, 2009.




                                           te R. Kulongoski
                                           GOVERNOR
                                                    Wo a

                                           Kate
                                            SECRETARY OF STATE
