Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 05 - 03


AUTHORIZATION FOR OREGON DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ACCESS TO.
LAW ENFORCEMENT DATA SYSTEM


ORS 181,010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(b) authorize the Governor to allow Law
Enforcement Data System access to designated state and local agencies which require such
information “for agency employment purposes, licensing purposes or other demonstrated
needs when designated by order of the Governor.” Executive Order No. 90-05 grants such
access to a number of state agencies and establishes the conditions under which such access
is authorized, Subsequent Executive Orders have authorized additional state agencies to
access such information for various purposes.

The Oregon Department of Energy (the “Department”) has requested access to the Oregon
State Police criminal offender information system for the purpose of conducting background
investigations on prospective employees where the protection ofpublic safety and/or the
maintenance of confidential information make such investigations advisable.

Various employment positions within the Department, including those that involve job
functions at the Hanford Nuclear Facility, nuclear safety, the production, storage and
shipment of nuclear waste, and access to confidential information submitted to or in the
possession of the Department, are positions where the protection ofpublic safety and/or the
maintenance of confidential information make such investigations advisable.


THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


1.     Pursuant to ORS 181.010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(B), I hereby authorize the
       Oregon State Police to provide the Department with access to the Oregon State Police
       enminal offender information system solely for the purpose of conducting
       background investigations on prospective employees for those positions where the
       Department concludes that protection of public safety and/or the maintenance of
       confidential information make such investigation advisable. Such positions include,
       but are not limited to, those that involve job functions at the Hanford Nuclear Facility,
       nuclear safety, the production, storage, and shipment of nuclear waste, and access to
       confidential information submitted to or in the possession of the Department.

2.     Executive Order No. 90-05 continues to govern the compilation, maintenance, and
       dissemination ofcriminal offender information as defined in ORS 181.010(3), and
       that Order governs the access to the Oregon State Police criminal offender
       information system authorized by this Order.
Office  ofthe Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 05-03
PAGE TWO



3.   This Order is effective immediately and expires five years after the date of its
     issuance.




     Done at Salem, Oregon, thii




                                   pede)
                                    Bill Bradbury
                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
