Office of the Governor
Statoef Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER                 ). 03-02

  INDUSTRIAL LANDS


  Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, | find that:

  Oregon's economy is in distress. To meet this challenge, my highest priority over the next
  four years is to facilitate the growth of jobs and stimulate the economy. The private sector is
  the engine of growth for the economy. Accordingly, my economic development agenda
  seeks to create a stable climate for investment and a secure environment for business. I intend
  to position this state for a quick recovery from the downtum by actively promoting and
  aggressively working to retain, expand and recruit business to Oregon.

  Under See, 1, Ch. 812, OR Laws 2001 (HB 3557), the Legislature appointed a special
  committee to investigate problems with the state's commercial and industrial land supply.
  ‘That committee provided the legislature with recommendations to improve the land supply.
  Further, the Oregon Economic and Community Development Department, the Community
  Solutions Team, and the Department of Land Conservation and Development have each
  identified problems with the industrial land supply. Finally, the Oregon Business Plan for
  Growing Quality Jobs and Statewide Prosperity identifies critical land shortages for traded-
  sector industries that sell products and services outside the state, both in the near-term and for
  market ready sites.

  We must continue to protect our natural resource base and a quality of life that is tied to our
  environment. But a strong economy is essential to assure the long-term sustainability and
  protection of Oregon’s environment and its communities. It is critical that we sustain our
  local economies and communities to help move our economy forward again, Our efforts to
  date have raised valid questions as to whether our current supply of industrial land and our
  ways ofpreserving and developing it are suited to the needs oftoday’s economy. It is time to
  act on recommendations and to tackle the questions raised, To respond to recommendations,
  questions and the needs ofbusiness so we can continue protecting our environment as well as
  our local economies and communities, we must take steps to create a ready supply of land for
  a variety of industrial uses.



  NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

      1. An Industrial Lands Taskforce (“Taskforce”) is established, chaired by the Governor
         or adesignee. The Taskforce shall be comprised of not more than 13 members. The
         Director of the Governor's Natural Resources Office shall identify and recommend
          individuals to the Taskforce that are knowledgeable about the issues faced by cities,
          counties, economic development organizations and businesses in providing an
          adequate supply of industrial lands.
Office
     of the Governor
Stat      e
    of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 03-02
  PAGE TWO

          ‘a.   The Taskforce may take action at any meeting in which a quorum of the
                members on the Taskforce are present. A quorum shall exist if'a majority of
                the Taskforce is present at a meeting. An affirmative vote ofa majority of
                members present at a meeting in which a quorum is present shall be required
                to take any action, including a recommendation to the Governor.

          b.    The Taskforce shall evaluate concerns and proposals for developing,
                identifying and protecting our short and long-term industrial land supply. As
                part of that evaluation, the Taskforce shall call and conduct statewide regional
                meetings to solicit views regarding these matters, It shall also solicit and
                review correspondence conceming these matters from Oregon communities,
                economic development and land use experts, citizens, and business people.
                After conducting all necessary meetings and reviewing the solicited
                ‘comments, the Taskforce shaill present its findings to the Governor as soon as
                is reasonably practicable.

    2. The Community Solutions Team (“CST”), with the assistance ofthe Community
       Solutions Office, shall:

          a,    Designate, as its first priority, the Shovel Ready Industrial Sites Initiative,
                designed to identify and prepare sites to make ready for immediate
                development opportunities. To meet this directive, it shall:

                    i. Complete an inventory ofinitial sites and identify the issues to resolve
                        in order to make each such site shovel-ready;
                    ii, Coordinate with local governments, state agencies, and other involved
                        parties to resolve the issues identified to make these sites shovel-ready;
                        and
                   iii, Complete development of a Site Certification Process.

          b. Provide staff support to the Taskforce.

          c. Develop legislative concepts to resolve industrial land problems and deliver
                the concepts to the Governor as soon as is reasonably practicable.

           4d. Submit a schedule to the Governor within 30 days ofthis Executive Order,
                that identifies a proposed timeline and dates upon which CST’s actions
                required under this Executive Order shall be completed.

           €. CST shall coordinate the efforts of those state agencies represented in CST to
              review each such agency's authority   to modify economic development grant
                and loan programs to assist industrial job creation.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 03-02
  PAGE THREE




                 f,     CST shall deliver a report to the Governor, annually or as requested, regarding
                        the actions taken and results achieved under this Executive Order.


    3.   The Director of the Division of State Lands shall implement the pilot wetlands and
         industrials lands project      to the extent federal and state law permits. At the completion
         of this pilot project, DSL shall provide written recommendations to CST about the
         potential for extending the pilot project to other appropriate locations in the state.          If
         appropriate,          CST will include DSL's recommendations in its annual report to the
         Governor.


           ‘ST        shall ensure that the actions taken and results achieved from the tasks required
         by this Executive Order             shall compliment and be consistent with the actions taken
         and results achieved under Executive Order No. 03-01 regarding Regulatory
         Streamlining.


    Done at Salem, Oregon this               _ _ day   of Eebraary,2003




                                                         Theodore R. Kulorgoski
                                                        GOVERNOR




                                                       VE Bradbury
                                                        SECRETARY   OF STATE
