Office  of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-16


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LAKE
    COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS

    Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and
    weather patterns have the potential to cause local adverse natural and economic
    disaster conditions in Lake County. Projected weather patterns are not expected to
    significantly alleviate these conditions, and drought conditions are continuing.
    These conditions are expected to have significant economic impact on Lake
    County’s agricultural, livestock and natural resources.

    Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
    of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources and Oregon Emergency
    Management.


    A timely response to this situation is vital to the well being and economic security
    of the citizens and businesses of Lake County; therefore | am declaring a “state of
    drought emergency” in Lake County and directing the following activities;

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


             1,     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in Lake County.

            2.     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for Lake County as it determines is necessary in
    accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

            2s     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in Lake County.

            4.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    affected political subdivisions in Lake County.
Office of the Governor
StateofOregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 — 16
    PAGE TWO


         3.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2007.


               Done at Salem, Oregon this ] day of October, 2007.

                                 “eek
                                    Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                    GOVERNOR

                                    ATTEST:




                                   & Il Bradbury
                                        RETARY OF STATE
