Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 06-07


    AMENDMENT TO EXECUTIVE ORDER 06-06


    On April 24, 2006, I issued Executive Order No. 06-06, determining that a state of
    emergency exists in Tillamook, Lincoln, Coos and Curry Counties and the coastal
    portions of Douglas and Lane Counties due to the virtual elimination of a viable
    commercial salmon fishing season, and severe restrictions on the sport salmon
    fishing season, along the Oregon coast south of Cape Falcon. That Executive
    Order was intended to coordinate the state response to this crisis and to facilitate
    the provision of state services to all persons adversely affected by the closure.


    Just as the ocean is not divided by county lines, neither is fishing in those marine
    waters. Many of the people who live in Clatsop County, who live or dock north of
    Cape Falcon, nonetheless fish in waters south of Cape Falcon or will be otherwise
    adversely affected by the anticipated closure and limitations on ocean salmon
    fishing. Therefore, citizens of Clatsop County are likely be affected by restrictions
    on fishing south of Cape Falcon in a similar manner as the coastal communities
    further south.


    In order to clarify that the provisions of Executive Order No. 06-06 are intended to
    apply equally to similarly affected individuals and businesses in Clatsop County, I
    wish to amend that order as follows.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


    Executive Order No. 06-06 is amended to include Clatsop County in the list of
    counties in which a State of Emergency is declared to exist.


    Done at Salem, Oregon thisa
                             ib& day of aD
                                         2006.



                                                 [t
                                                  LL lap—
                                                   GOVERNOR


                                                   ATTEST:




                                              ry SECRETARY OF STATE



                                                                                            Materials
