Office  of the  Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 10


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    BAKER, HARNEY AND UNION COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT AND
    LOW WATER CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and
    weather patterns have the potential to cause local adverse natural and economic
    disaster conditions in Baker, Hamey and Union Counties. Projected weather
    patterns are not expected to significantly alleviate these conditions, and drought
    conditions are continuing. These conditions are expected to have significant
    economic impact on Baker, Harney and Union Counties’ agricultural, livestock and
    natural resources,


    Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
    of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources and Oregon Emergency
    Management.


    A timely response to this situation is vital to the well being and economic security
    of the citizens and businesses ofthese Counties, therefore, I am declaring a “state
    of drought emergency”    in Baker, Harney and Union Counties and directing the
    following activi


    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

            1.     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in Baker, Harney and Union Counties.

           2.      The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for Baker, Hamey and Union Counties as it
    determines is necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

             3.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in Baker, Harney and Union Counties.

           4.      All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    affected political subdivisions in Baker, Harney and Union Counties.
Office ofthe Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-10
    PAGE TWO


         3.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2007.
                                                    th
                      Done
                         at Salem, Oregon        this_/6 day of August,
                                                                    2007.




                                     a
                                     2 Kall wh
                                           ATTEST:



                                            SECRETARY
                                                   OF STL
