                                       THEODORE R. KULONGOSK!
                                                Governor


                                          August 8, 2008



    Dear Agency Directors and Contract Procurement Officers:

           Today, I issued Executive Order No. 08-16, entitled “Promoting Diversity and Equal
    Opportunity for Minority and Women Owned Businesses.” I firmly believe that the State of
    Oregon must be a leader in promoting diversity. This means we must foster an inclusive
    business climate that supports economic growth in all sectors, including among Oregon’s
    minority and women owned businesses. To reach its true potential, Oregon must build on the
    strengths of all Oregonians.


            Executive Order 08-16 helps Oregon create a more inclusive business environment by
    directing agencies to collect data on how certified minority and women owned enterprises are
    doing business with the State and to set aspirational targets for including those businesses in the
    contract procurement process. Your agency has been selected to set aspirational targets because
    1 believe its potential contracting needs are well-matched with existing sectors of certified
    minority and women owned businesses.


           To be clear, this Executive Order does not in any way create a preference program or
    alter the existing procurement code. Instead, this Executive Order is a call to action: we must be
    more proactive in including certified minority and women businesses in bidding and contracting
    processes, reducing the red tape associated with contracting, and removing unnecessarily
    cumbersome barriers to doing business with the State.       Lydia Muniz, my Advocate for Minority,
    Women and Emerging Small Business, will be a key resource in helping you evaluate your
    procurement process and proposed aspirational targets.


           1 look forward to working with you to meet this challenge. I also look forward to
    honoring managers and contract procurement officers who make extraordinary efforts to foster
    Oregon’s inclusive business environment, through my new Promoting Diversity Certificate of
    Excellence program. I know that with all of us working together we can and will do better!


                                                  Since     ;



                                                          (Nhe
                                                  THEODORE R. KULONGOSKI
                                                  Governor
    TRK/m/tl



STATE CAPITOL, 900 COURT STREET NE, SALEM OR 97301-4047              (503) 378-3111   FAX (S03) 378-6827
                                      WWW.GOVERNOR.OREGON.GOV
