Wires of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER 08 — 26


    OREGON ENERGY PLANNING COUNCIL


    Our decisions in the next decade will determine Oregon’s energy future. Whether
    it is demand from our growing economy or growing population, Oregon’s energy
    needs are expected to increase. Oregon has charted a course to meet future demand
    with renewable energy, aggressive conservation strategies and increased efficiency.
    It will take time, however, to implement Oregon’s green, more efficient energy
    plan and invest in the energy infrastructure needed to incorporate renewable energy
    into the grid.


    On August 27, 2008, I hosted a Summit on Oregon’s Energy Future. At the
    Summit, energy suppliers, public officials, scientists, labor and business
    representatives, students and environmentalists gathered to begin a discourse about
    creating Oregon’s energy future. The Summit identified Oregon’s need for a
    formal, comprehensive planning process to move the state toward clean, renewable
    energy, while also addressing the immediate issues of price stability and supply
    certainty for Oregon families and businesses.


    Energy supply and demand are dynamic and thus, the State’s energy planning
    requires ongoing analysis, flexibility and adaptability. Even in these tough
    economic times, the need to address Oregon’s energy future in a comprehensive
    way remains an essential goal. The future well-being and prosperity of Oregon’s
    families and businesses depend on it. This Executive Order establishes the Oregon
    Energy Planning Council to provide proactive analysis, advice and assistance on
    energy planning.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

            1.       The Oregon Energy Planning Council (“Council”) is hereby                  )
    established.                     .

            2.       The Council shall consist of eleven members appointed by the
    Governor for terms of three years each. Members shall represent the best interests
    of Oregon as a whole. The Council shall include:

                     a.     A representative from the Oregon University System;
                     b.     A representative who is knowledgeable about energy
                            transmission;             :
                     c.     A representative who is an energy economist;
                     d.     Two representatives of ratepayers;




                                                                                          He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 — 26
    PAGE TWO


                               A representative of renewable energy providers;                    .



                    rmBog bh
                           ©
                               A tepresentative of the Bonneville Power Administration;
                               A representative of natural gas providers;
                               Two representatives of electricity providers; and
                               A representative who is knowledgeable about energy
                               efficiency and conservation.


               3.   All members serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The terms of
    each appointment shall be three years. Initial terms shall be proportionately
    staggered to periods of one, two and three years. Members may be reappointed.
    The Governor shall designate a Chair, who will serve at the pleasure of the
    Governor.


               4.     The following Oregon officials or their designees shall serve as ex
    officio members of the Council:


                               Chair of the Board of Agriculture;

                    eS oP
                               Chair of the Board of Forestry;
                               Chair of the Economic and Community Development
                               Commission;




                    ga rhpe
                               Chair of the Energy Facility Siting Council;
                               Chair of the Environmental Quality Commission;
                               Chair of the Fish and Wildlife Commission;
                               Chair of the Land, Conservation and Development
                               Commission;



                    ror
                      pe
                               Chair of the Oregon Global Warming Commission;
                               Chair of the Oregon Investment Council;
                               Chair of the Public Utilities Commission; and
                               The State Economist.


               5.   The Council shall meet at least quarterly and at the call of the Chair
    or the Governor. The Council’s deliberations shall be public, and the Council shall
    hold meetings at different locations throughout the state, at the direction of the
    Chair.


               6.   On or before December 31, 2010, and continuing thereafter on a
    biennial basis, or at the request of the Governor, the Council shall issue an Oregon
    energy planning report to the Governor and the Legislative Assembly, which may
    outline:




                                                                                             He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 — 26
    PAGE THREE


                   a.        Oregon’s current energy use and energy supply and its future
                             energy needs;
                   b.        Challenges to addressing the immediate issues of price
                             stability and energy supply certainty for Oregon families and
                             businesses;
                    c.       Recommendations for bridging any potential gaps in
                             Oregon’s energy supply;
                    d.       Recommendations for short, middle and long-range
                             strategies for meeting Oregon’s future energy needs,
                             including the costs of any required infrastructure
                             improvements and the expected environmental and economic
                             impact of each energy strategy;
                    e.       At least two alternative strategies for meeting Oregon’s
                             energy needs; and
                   f.        Any recommended statutory changes for legislative
                             consideration and recommended budget items to be included
                             in the Governor’s budget.


           7.       On an ongoing basis, at the request of the Governor, the Council
    shall provide analysis and counsel on energy forecasting, energy transmission,
    energy price stability, renewable energy, alternative energy sources and energy
    efficiency.


            8.      The Oregon Department of Energy shall provide staff support to the
    Council. Other state agencies shall assist the Council upon request. The Council
    shall consult with national energy experts as appropriate.
                                                                                             |


            9.      The members of the Council shall not receive compensation for their
    activities as members of the Council, but may be reimbursed for travel expenses
    incurredin attending Council business pursuant to ORS 292.495(2) and subject to
    availability of funds.




                                                                                             1
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08 — 26
    PAGE FOUR

         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 17th day of December, 2008.




                                         “VA illstee
                                            Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                             GOVERNOR

                                             ATTEST:




                                             Bill Bradbury
                                             SECRETARY OF STATE
