    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-10


        DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN TILLAMOOK,
        LINCOLN, COOS, CLATSOP AND CURRY COUNTIES AND COASTAL
        PORTIONS OF LANE AND DOUGLAS COUNTIES DUE TO
        LIMITATIONS ON OCEAN COMMERCIAL AND SPORT SALMON
        FISHING


°       Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that the dramatic decline in Sacramento River fall
        Chinook salmon and lower Columbia River natural populations of Chinook and
        coho available for harvest by the ocean fishing industry will result in the
        elimination of a viable commercial and sport salmon fishing season along the
        Oregon coast. These conditions have created an imminent emergency.

        The affected areas are Tillamook, Lincoin, Coos, Clatsop and Curry Counties and
        the coastal portions of Douglas and Lane Counties that are west of Range 8 West,
        Willamette Meridian. I therefore declare a State of Emergency in the
        abovementioned counties and portions of counties.

        NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


                 1.     All state agencies shall work in a cooperative and coordinated
        manner in order to mitigate the impacts of this emergency, provide expedited
        service and resources to persons and businesses adversely affected by the
        emergency, and focus state efforts in a manner most likely to relieve the
        unemployment, human suffering, financial loss and other economic impacts of this
        emergency. In addition to the specific measures discussed in this Executive Order,
        all state agencies are encouraged to think broadly and creatively about actions that
        agencies can take to address this emergency and shall communicate such ideas to
        the Office of the Governor. Response to the emergency shail be directed and
        coordinated by the Office of the Governor, in coordination with the Office of
        Emergency Management (OEM).


                2.      OEM shall coordinate with affected counties to provide any and all
        assistance to prevent reasonable threats to life or property, including the pursuit of
        any all available federal funding or resources to assist in mitigating the effects of
        this emergency. OEM shali also facilitate a partnership with federal agencies to
        help relieve the current salmon emergency and assist affected counties’ with their
        ongoing emergency preparedness efforts.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-10
    PAGE TWO


           3.      The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, which operates under
    the direction of the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, is strongly encouraged to
    develop recreational and commercial fishing seasons, consistent with state
    conservation plans and the federal framework in order to help mitigate the effects
    of this emergency on coastal economies.

           4.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) will continue to
    liaison with the seafood commodity commissions, particularly the Salmon
    Commission, to provide a communication link between state government and the
    commercial fishing fleet. The ODA will explore opportunities to maintain a
    Salmon Commission structure during the salmon fishing shutdown.


           5.      An interagency group led by the Governor’s policy advisor on
    workforce development shall investigate retraining opportunities for ocean fishing
    workers wishing to pursue alternative employment. Members of the interagency
    group shall include the Bureau of Labor and Industries, Department of Community
    Colleges and Workforce Development (CCWD), Oregon Employment Department
    (OED), the Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board, the Oregon Parks and
    Recreation Department (OPRD), and the Oregon Economic and Community
    Development Department (OECDD).


           6.      Consistent with the collective bargaining agreements, statutes and
    administrative rules, all state agencies shall seek to hire qualified individuals
    impacted by the emergency declared in this Executive Order when filling vacancies
    or making temporary appointments, for a period of one year from the date of this
    Executive Order.


            7.     CCWD shall pursue all available retraining opportunities for ocean
    fishing industry workers wishing to pursue alternative employment and shall
    coordinate the timely delivery of state workforce services and other human and
    community services to affected workers and families,

           8.      OED shall offer re-employment assistance programs to affected
    ocean fishing industry workers.


           9.      As in 2006, OPRD shall conduct outreach to displaced employees of
    the commercial and recreational fishing industries and make them aware of any
    seasonal positions available this summer at state parks along the coast.
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-10
        PAGE THREE


          ;     10.   | Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board shall provide financial
        resources to support fish habitat enhancement along critical salmon streams in
        Oregon for the purpose of accelerating the rebuildingof fish populations and
        creating new and meaningful work opportunities for displaced workers.

a              11.    Oregon Housing and Community Services (OHCS) shall work with
        the Oregon Food Bank to provide additional food and nutritional support for
        affected Oregonians. Where possible, OHCS is directed to work with housing
        partners to provide additional assistance for emergency shelter, rental housing, and.
        permanent housing for affected households in need. OHCS is further directed to
        work with local community based organizations to provide additional energy
        assistance and weatherization services to affected Oregonians as appropriate.

                12.   | OECDD shall provide technical assistance to local governments,
        public ports and businesses that experience adverse effects on their operations or
        revenues due to this emergency.


                13.    The Oregon Department of Revenue shail investigate and pursue
        options for affected Oregonians to obtain income tax credits and refunds and other
        financial assistance.


                14.   | The Oregon Tourism Commission is directed to actively inform the
        public of continued recreational fishing opportunities and other tourism activities
        along the Oregon Coast and to highlight travel to the Oregon Coast, as appropriate
        within their overall marketing strategies.


                15.    The Department of Human Services shall continue to provide mental
        health and treatment services, alcohol and drug treatment services, nutrition
        programs, domestic violence assistance, and medical assistance to Oregonians in
        coastal communities with particular attention to the increased needs in coastal
        communities caused by this emergency.


                16.    All other state agencies are directed to provide appropriate state
        resources and to seek any available private and federal dollars to provide
        emergency assistance to affected individuals, families, businesses and communities
        and to deliver such assistance in the most expeditious manner.




                                                                                                Hi
                                                                                                 Ho
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-10
        PAGE FOUR


               17.     All state agencies specifically referenced in this Executive Order
        shall report to me within sixty days of the date of this Executive Order about
        progress made under this Executive Order and every sixty days thereafter until
        conclusion of the emergency.


°              18.    The authority delegated by this order will automatically terminate
        May 1, 2009, unless otherwise extended or terminated by supplemental order.

                       Done at Salem, Oregon this 10th day of April, 2008.




                                          TN lye
                                              Theodore R. {longoski
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              ATTEST:




                                               ill Bradbury
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                            He
