Office ofthe Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-27

    REGULATORY EXTENSIONS AND WAIVERS FOR THOSE AFFECTED
    BY THE STATE OF EMERGENCY, STORM AND FLOOD


    On December 3, 2007, I declared a State of Emergency in all areas of the State that
    were affected by the severe winter storm that struck Northwestem Oregon in the
    preceding days. The storm caused high winds, flooding and erosion throughout the
    affected areas and resulted in prolonged power and communications outages and
    evacuations. Many Oregonians were displaced by the storm. Many residents and
    businesses located in areas affected by the storm are still experiencing disruptions
    of their normal activities, including inability to access business or personal records,
    delays in receiving mail and cash flow challenges.

    ‘These disruptions may inhibit individuals and/or businesses from timely
    compliance with some regulatory timelines, deadlines and due dates for payments
    owed, Pursuant to ORS 401,065(2) and 401.095(1), upon a Governor's declaration
    ofa state of emergency, the Governor has the authority to suspend rules if striet
    compliance with such rules will prevent, hinder or delay mitigation of the eflects of
    the emergency.


    NOW THEREFORE I HEREBY DECLARE:


            1.   All State agencies shall develop and implement procedures to provide
                 reasonable waivers or extensions oftimelines and deadlines and waivers
                 of penalties or fees associated with missed timelines or deadlines for
                 persons and businesses located in areas affected by the storm.

            2.   Waivers and extensions shall be for a period of 30-60 days. Extensions
                 may apply retroactively to deadlines or timelines that have already
                 passed, if the Agency is reasonably satisfied that the failure to comply
                 resulted from disruption caused by the storm.

            3.   Pursuant to ORS 401.065(2) and 401.095(1), this order supersedes any
                 inconsistent rules and orders. This order does not supersede federal law.

            4.   Agencies shall submit a report or any actions taken   in compliance with
                 this order to the Office of Regulatory Streamlining in the Department of
                 Consumer and Business Services no later than January 31, 2008.
Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-27
    PAGE TWO



        Done at Salem, Oregon this 18" day of December, 2007,




                                        idllebye-
                                           Theodore R. Kulongosti
                                           GOVERNOR

                                           ATTEST:




                                             [2A/
                                           Bill Bradbury
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE.
