Office of the Governor
StateofOregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-05

    GOVERNOR'S RE-ENTRY COUNCIL


    Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, I find that:


    Due to the tremendous increase in the incarceration rate in Oregon over the past
    fifteen years, record numbers of prison inmates who have served their sentences are
    now being released to return to Oregon communities.


    Ninety-seven percent of prison inmates will return to community living at some
    point in their lives.   Over 4,000 inmates will be released from state prisons to
    Oregon's communities in the next year. Many thousands more will be released
    from jails.


    Offenders are spending longer periods oftime incarcerated, yet treatment and
    educational programs have not kept pace with the growing population. Few
    inmates receive treatment services that would reduce their risk of re-oflense upon       |
    release and make Oregon's communities safer.                                             |

    ‘The recidivism rate for offenders released ftom prison has remained virtually
    unchanged for the last ten years. One out of every three people released from
    prison commits a new felony crime within three years ofrelease.

    In order to reduce recidivism and its costs to society and crime victims, Oregon
    must focus    resources on inmates as they are released from prison and return to the
    community.     The success of the re-integration of offendersinto the community     is
    directly related to public safety.

    Effective management of this high risk group will reduce recidivism, thereby
    reducing victimization and future incarceration costs. Local law enforcement,
    county jails, courts, prosecutors and victim and social service agencies all share the
    savings gained from reducing recidivism.

    Successful reintegration ofoffenders returning from prison and jail requires the
    efforts of multiple state and local agencies. No single agency can accomplish this
    goal. Our long- term commitment to public safety requires that we address this
    issue through focused leadership and action.
Office  of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-05,
    PAGE TWO


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:                                           |

      1.   The Governor’s Re-Entry Council (the “Council”) is established as a
           statewide leadership group to work collaboratively on improving the
           success and safety of incarceration to community transition.

      2.   The Council shall consist of 19 members as follows:

           a. The Governor, who shall serve as chair;
           b. The Director of the Department of Corrections, who shall serve as vice
             chair;
           cc. The Chair ofthe Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision;
           d. The Director of the Oregon Youth Authority;
           c. The Director of the Department of Human Services;
           f. The Director of the Employment Department;
           g, The Director of Oregon Housing and Community Services;
           h. The Director of the Veteran’s Department;
           i, The Administrator of the Driver and Motor Vehicle Services Division of
             the Department of Transportation:
           j. The Director of the Department of Community Colleges and Workforce
             Development;
           k. The Governor shall appoint one member to represent cach ofthe
              following:
              i.           The House of Representatives                                         |
                              1e Senate
                            The Oregon Association of Community Corrections Directors
               iv. The Oregon State Sheriffs Association
               v. The Oregon District Attorneys Association
                 i. The Oregon Criminal Defense Lawyers Association
                   i.      The Oregon Judicial Department
                   i i.    The Oregon Association of Chiefs of Police
                          . Social service providers that concentrate on offenders transition
                            from incarceration to the community
           1. The Governor may appoint additional members as the Governor deems
             appropriate.

       3. The chair shall establish an agenda for the Council and provide leadership
          and direction for the Council. The chair may appoint and approve the
           creation of subcommittees of the council.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-05
    PAGE THREE


      4,   A quorum for Council meetings shall consist of'a majority of the appointed
           members. The Council shall strive to operate by consensus; however the
           Couneil may approve measures and make recommendations based on an
           affirmative vote ofthe majority of the quorum present.


           ‘The Council is responsible for planning, developing, implementing and
           overseeing a multi-agency transition approach for Oregon. The Council
           shall map the transition process and identify the impact ofeach state
           agency. The Council shall:


               Create a common vision for transition and reentry;
               Provide coordination at the executive level of reentry initiatives across
               the state;
           ©   Conducta thorough review
                                   of existing policies and practices and make
               specific recommendations for system improvement;
           *   Create an implementation plan for improvements in policy and practice
               and monitor the plan;
               Establish regular and continuing communication among stakeholde!
               Remove       or minimize barriers that impede successful transition and re-
               integration;
           ©   Review agency budgets and priorities and make recommendations to
               align them with evidence based practices and policies supporting
               successful transition;
           Recommend changes in funding to further support the reformed
               transition process;
           *   Review policies relating to institutional case planning, institutional
               transition planning and preparation, information sharing, continuum of
               services following release, social services in the community, housing
               and employment; and
           ‘Establish work groups to implement system reform and make the

               required changes      in the procedures and practices ofstate and local
               agencies involved in the reentry process.

           The Council shall define state level performance goals and create a system
           for measuring state level performance. The Council shall develop system-
           wide agreement on what is to be accomplished at the state level as a result
           of improving the prison to community transition. The Council shall
           regularly monitor its performance measures and report to stakeholders,
           policy makers and practitioners.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-05
PAGE FOUR,


  7.   The Department of Corrections shall staff the Council. If the Council
       requests assistance from any other executive branch agency of the State,
       that agency shall provide such assistance.

  8.   Council members are not entitled to reimbursement of expenses or the per
       diem provided in ORS 292.495.


  9.   This Order shall remain in effect until rescinded,



                      Done at Salem, Oregon this 14 day of May, 2007.




                                       ar?   GOVERNOR

                                             ATTEST:




                                           Cir              2
                                    Depuly SECRETARY OF
                                                      S            TE
