Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-07


    DIRECTING STATE AGENCIES TO PROTECT COASTAL
    COMMUNITIES IN SITING MARINE RESERVES AND WAVE ENERGY
    PROJECTS


    Marine reserve designations and wave energy siting in Oregon’s Territorial Sea
    have the potential to significantly impact coastal communities and ocean users.
    The State must adopt a comprehensive, thoughtful approach to planning marine
    reserve designations and wave energy siting that balances the needs of Oregon’s
    coastal communities and ocean users with opportunities for continued economic
    development.


    Oregon’s coastal communities are comprised ofdistinct local economies that share
    a common connection to the ocean and its resources. Coastal communities and
    ocean users have a wealth of knowledge about maintaining nearshore marine
    resources and their input is essential to developing informed recommendations for
    marine reserves, wave energy development and other new uses of the ocean.
    Oregon can stimulate and strengthen the coastal region’s economic vitality by
    encouraging development of new sustainable industries while preserving existing
    livelihoods in commercial and sport fishing, ocean recreation, tourism, forest
    products and agriculture.

    Oregon is distinguished among sister states for its collaborative and innovative
    approach to ocean resource management. Oregon’s Ocean Policy Advisory
    Council (OPAC), a marine policy advisory body, was created by the legislature to
    ensure the conservation and responsible development of Oregon’s ocean resources.
    OPAC is comprised of representatives from coastal communities and state
    agencies, including but not limited to Oregon Department ofFish and Wildlife
    (ODEW), Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) and
    Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (OPRD).


    ‘At my request, OPAC has begun the process of recommending marine reserve
    designations.   OPAC will also be involved in advising the State about other
    proposed uses of Oregon’s Territorial Sea. ODFW, as the state agency with
    principal responsibility to manage marine fisheries and other marine wildlife, is
    uniquely poised to lead OPAC in developing marine reserve designations. ODFW
    has adopted a nearshore marine resource conservation strategy and a statewide
    conservation strategy to preserve and protect Oregon’s ecosystems and the species
    that depend on them.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-07
    PAGE TWO


    To further protect coastal communities, Oregon must closely collaborate with the
    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the federal agency responsible
    for reviewing applications for licenses to site and operate wave energy facilities. A
    Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between FERC and Oregon outlines the
    steps for this collaboration. The MOU provides that Oregon will develop a
    comprehensive plan, which FERC will consider in its wave energy license review
    process for hydrokinetic projects within Oregon’s Territorial Sea. The
    comprehensive plan will seek to identify appropriate locations for future wave
    energy projects that minimize adverse impacts to existing ocean resources and
    resource users. In addition, the MOU provides that FERC and Oregon will include
    terms and conditions in wave energy licenses and permits to optimally site wave
    energy facilities to mitigate the impacts of projects on coastal communities.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


            1.     The director of ODFW, or the director’s designee, shall serve as my
    representative to OPAC. ODFW shall serve as the lead agency in the OPAC
    marine reserve recommendation process.


           2.      DLCD, together with ODFW, shall continue to provide OPAC with
    administrative staff and technical support. OPRD shall continue to provide staff
    assistance to OPAC. All OPAC member agencies shall continue to support the
    Marine Reserves Working Group and the Scientific and Technical Advisory
    Committee (STAC) through the marine reserves recommendation process.

           2,      The director of ODFW, or the director’s designee, shall work with
    OPAC and its member agencies to:

                   ‘a.     Prioritize OPAC activities directly related to implementing
                           an effective public nomination and recommendation process
                           for marine reserves until January 1, 2009, when the process
                           is complete.
                   b.      Recommend not more than nine sites for consideration as
                           marine reserves that, individually or collectively, are large
                           enough to allow scientific evaluation of ecological benefits,
                           but small enough to avoid significant economic or social
                           impacts, on or before January 1, 2009.
Office of the Governo:
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-07
    PAGE THREE


                   c.     Give priority consideration to marine reserve designation
                          nominations developed by coastal community nominating
                          teams (e.g., nearshore action teams) comprised of coastal
                          community members, ocean users and other interested
                          parties.
                  da.     On or before July 1, 2008, publish a marine reserve
                          nomination form. The nomination form shall utilize STAC
                          expertise. The form shall address site location
                          characteristics, potential biological, social and economic
                          impacts, potential economic development opportunities, and
                          any research opportunities.
                   e.     Onor before November 1, 2008, submit a proposal to my
                          office for financing, budgeting and implementing OPAC’s
                          marine reserve recommendation process in the 2009-11
                          biennium.
                  ia      On or before December 1, 2008, use nomination criteria as a
                          coarse filter to review marine reserve nominations for more
                          thorough evaluation by state agencies.
                   g.     Onor before January 1, 2009, OPAC member agencies,
                          utilizing STAC and other scientific and technical expertise,
                          shall engage in a secondary review process to develop
                          additional criteria that assess social, economic and biological
                          impacts of marine reserve nominations.
                   h.     Continue to collaborate with Oregon Sea Grant, a program
                          organized under the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
                          Administration in collaboration with Oregon State
                          University, in its outreach and public education efforts to
                          facilitate community-driven site nominations. The
                          Department of Economic and Community Development
                          (OECDD) shall provide supplemental funding for travel,
                          public outreach facilitation and publication costs to support
                          Oregon Sea Grant’s efforts.

           4.      Following evaluation of marine reserve sites nominated by OPAC
    and legislative funding approval, State Land Board, Land Conservation and
    Development Commission (LCDC), Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission and
    other appropriate agencies shall consider OPAC’s recommendations and agency
    evaluations for potential adoption of a limited system of marine reserves consistent
    with ORS 196.443 and in coordination with OPAC and any amendments to
    Oregon’s Territorial Sea Plan.
Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 08-07
    PAGE FOUR


           5.      DLCD shall seek recommendations from OPAC concerning
    appropriate amendments to Oregon’s Territorial Sea Plan, reflecting comprehensive
    plan provisions on wave energy siting projects. On or before July   31, 2009, DLCD
    shall begin the process to develop proposed amendments to Oregon’s Territorial
    Sea Plan for consideration by LCDC for such amendments. DLCD shall provide
    final amendment recommendations to LCDC on or before December 1, 2009.

           6.   _ DLCD shall submit any comprehensive plan provisions incorporated
    into Oregon’s Territorial Sea Plan to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration for approval as enforceable policies of Oregon’s Coastal
    Management Program under the federal Coastal Zone Management Act.


           7.      OPAC shall work with Oregon Sea Grant and the Oregon Coastal
    Zone Management Association to provide outreach and public education to coastal
    communities concerning the potential positive and adverse impacts of wave energy.


                   Done at Salem, Oregon, this 26th day of March, 2008.




                                               aeNiky
                                                Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                                GOVERNOR:




                                                ATTEST:




                                              JEL
                                                Bill Bradbury
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
