Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 — 12

    GOVERNOR'S PROCESS FOR CALCULATING THE ESSENTIAL.
    BUDGET LEVEL FOR THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE SUPPORT FUND


    ‘The State's calculation of the “essential budget level” for the Community College
    Support Fund is not developed to a level ofdetail that captures the true costs of the
    system, and it does not support effective decision-making.     The Governor and the
    Legislature need additional detailed and timely information about the reasonable
    assumptions of its essential budget level for Oregon’s community colleges in order
    to adequately plan future budgets.

    Oregon’s current process for calculating the essential budget level for the K-12 and
    Oregon University Systems utilizes a database initiative (DBI) that provides the
    detailed information necessary for budget planning. The Community College
    Support Fund requires a similar process. The Department of Community College
    and Workforce Development is working to develop and implement a database
    initiative capacity similar to that used by the Department of Education for K-12
    financial data, The DBI model will provide to the Community College Support
    Fund the level ofdetailed financial information necessary for sound budget
    planning.

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

            1,     No later than May 1, and December 1, of each even-numbered year,
    the Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS) shall calculate the
    essential budget level (EBL) for the Community College Support Fund for the
    upcoming biennium. That forecast shall consider and include:

                   a.      Projected changes in the cost ofpersonal services including
                           salary and compensation changes negotiated and/or approved
                           by the college districts, changes in health benefit costs,
                           changes in retirement program costs and staff turnover;
                   b.      Projected increases in the cost ofservices and supplies and
                           capital outlay based on the methodology included in the
                           DAS Budget Instructions;
                   c.      Adjustments resulting from legislatively approved phase-ins,
                           phase-outs and one-time expenditures;
                   d.      Forecasted local revenues for community colleges as
                           provided by the Department of Administrative Services,
                           Legislative Fiscal Office, Legislative Revenue Office and
                           Department of Revenue:
Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07 - 12
    PAGE TWO

                      €.       Projected tuition revenues based on an economic indicator
                               (e.g. change in median family income);
                      f.       Projected revenues available to community colleges from
                               other local, state and federal sources.

              .         ‘The required calculation of an EBL for the Community College
    Support       Fund using the factors listed above is dependent upon successful
    implementation ofthe the Database Initiative project by the Department of
    Community Colleges and Workforce Development.


           3:         The Department of Administrative Services shall form and chair a
    “Community College Forecast Committee” to review the statewide budget
    forecasts. This committee shall consist of representatives from the Office of the
    Governor, the Department of Community Colleges and Workforce Development,
    the Legislative        Fiscal Office, the Legislative Revenue Office, the Legislative
    Assembly and stakeholders from community colleges and labor unions. This
    ‘committee shall meet in each even-numbered year prior to each EBL calculation
    and at other times as may be determined to be appropriate.

                      Done at Salem, Oregon this 28" day of August, 2007.




                                                       cen
                                                       ‘Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                                       GOVERNOR


                                                       ATTEST:




                                                    r. Bradbury
                                                       SECRETARY OF STATE
