Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-11


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    MALHEUR COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
    CONDITIONS.

    Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and
    weather patterns have the potential to cause local adverse natural and economic
    disaster conditions in the Malheur County. Projected weather patterns are not
    expected to significantly alleviate these conditions and drought conditions are
    continuing. These conditions are expected to have significant economic impact on
    the Malheur County's agricultural, livestock, and natural resources.

    Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
    of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency
    Management.


    A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic
    security ofthe citizens and businesses of the Malheur County, | am therefore
    declaring a “state of drought emergency” in the Malheur County and directing the
    following activities;


    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

           1,      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    effect agricultural recovery in the Malheur County.

           2.      ‘The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for the Malheur County as it determines is
    necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


            3.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in the Malheur County.

           4;       All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    affected political subdivisions in the Malheur County.




                                                                                            It
Office of the Governor


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 07-11
    PAGE TWO


         3.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2007

               Done at Salem, Oregon this 24th day of August, 2007.




                                           Theodore R. Kulongéski
                                           GOVERNOR


                                           ATTEST:




                                           Bill Bradbury
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE
