Office of the Governor
Stato efOregon


  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 03-03


  A SUSTAINABLE OREGON FOR THE 21°' CENTURY


  Pursuant to my authority
                         asGovernor of the State of Oregon, | find that:


          While Oregon’s economy is in distress, it has many assets: natural resourees, a clean
          environment, extensive telecommunications and traditional infrastructure, and an educated
          and skilled workforce.

          Oregon's economic recovery will be aided by establishmg a commitment to lasting solutions
          that simultaneously address economic, environmental and community well-being. We should
          not continue to trade one essential aspect of well-being off against another, but we should
          take actions that will sustain Oregon’s assets and put Oregon on the path to long-term
          prosperity in all aspects of life,

          Sustainability is doing business with an eye to the triple bottom line~ economy, community
          and environment. Oregon state government must define sustainability,      produce goals within
          state government to achieve sustainability, identify challenges to achieving sustainability and
          measure our performance based on sustainability,


  ‘This executive order is intended to support and drive the goals ofthe Oregon Sustainability Act (Act)
  adopted by the Legislature in 2001. Using the powers vested in the Oregon Sustainability Board
  under the Act, this Order directs the Board and state employees to move us closer to a more
  “sustainable” state.

  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


  Board Actions


  In accordance with the Oregon Sustamability Act (Act), ORS 184.423, Sections 2(5) and 3, the
  Oregon Sustainability Board (Board) is directed to manage and carry out this Order. To do so, 11
  shall:

  1.      Constitute and convene a Sustainability Leadership Team (“Team”) to provide
  recommendations to the Board and to manage and deliver Board directives to state agencies as
  approved by the Board. The Team shall be chaired by the Director appointed by the Board pursuant
  to Section 7 of the Act, or, in her or his absence, the Director of the Department of Admunistrative
  Services (DAS), and shall consist of the following members: the Director of DAS, the Chair of the
  Board, the Director ofthe Office of Energy, the Governor's Sustainability Advisor, the Director of
  the Economic and Community Development Department, the Director of the Oregon Progress Board,
  the Governor's Natural Resources Advisor, the Director ofthe Department of Housing and
  Community Services, and such other members as may be requested by the Board from time to time.
  The Team shall review, revise and recommend for Board approval the Plans prepared by each
  Agency Sustainability Coordinator as directed under this Order. Pursuant to its authority under the
  Act, the Board may request additional agencies to provide simular Plans from time to time, or request
  other actions consistent with its authority under the Act.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 03-03
  PAGE TWO



  2.      Within 90 days ofthus Order, the Team shall deliver to the Board for its review and approval
  written guidance (“Sustainability Guidance”) to state agencies regarding each agency's actions to
  comply with this Order. To the extent possible, the Team will seek expertise outside state government
  to assist in the development ofthe Sustainability Guidance. ‘The Sustainability Guidance shall
  include the following:


           2.1       a working definition ofsustainability for state agencies to guide their actions;
                     suggested strategies for achieving greater sustainability;
           2.3       apolicy directive for economic, social and environmental sustainability that a
                     counts for resource constraints and similar financial variables;
           24        performance standards, targets and evaluation methods to determine agency
                     compliance;
           2.5       identification of key leverage points within and outside state government to enhance
                     sustainability;
           2.6       identification of eross-ageney programs that intersect with sustainability goals;
           27        state agency reporting protocols;
           28     — ameans to assess the financial impact of proposed actions on state expenditures;
           2.9       a directive to develop partnerships with other government and private entiti
           2.10      identification of outreach programs to promote practices endorsed in this Order;
           2.11      identification of training and staff development methods;
           2.12      identification of potential incentives and acknowledgement for agencies that exceed
                     performance expectations;
           2.13      directive that each state agency develop Implementation Plans (“Plans”) to comply
                     with these Sustaining Guidelines and any other directive on sustainability from the
                     Board; and
           2.14      any other guidance to enable state agencies to carry out this Order and sustainability
                     directives from the Board.


  3.       Pursuant to Section 3 ofthe Act, the Board shall develop cooperative programs that involve
  local government, non-profit entities and private industry to achieve the objectives of the Act and this
  Order.

  4.       Under the direction of the Board, DAS shall update and maintain the current Oregon
  Solutions webpage.

  3.       Under the direction ofthe Board, the Economic and Community Development Department
  shall provide staff assistance for meeting scheduling, notification and drafting of documents for an
  Interagency Sustainability Network (“Network”). The Network shall be an informal forum of state
  agency personnel, including the Team and each Sustainability Coordinator, whose purpose is
  exchanging information and developing new approaches on sustainability among stage agencies.
  State agencies should participate in the Network to the extent needed to support this Order.      The
  Network forum will convene periodically to suggest recommendations to the Board on ways to
  enhance sustainability in Oregon through modification to the Sustainability Guidance, legislauon, and
  other means.
Office ofthe Governor
State of Orego

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 03-03
  PAGE THREE



  6.         ‘The Board shall recommend for the Governor's approval by December 1, 2003, and after
  approval for dispersal to all agencies through the Oregon Advisory Committce on Government
  Performance and Accountability, changes in performance management to better incorporate
  sustainability into the state’s management practices. These recommendations shall include but are
  not limited to: performance standards for agencies, performance measurement and internal audit
  standards.


  7,         The Board shall provide guidance to state agencies on how to apply and support the
  Governor's Oregon Solutions and Community Solutions systems for community-based action to
  achieve the ten community objectives listed in ORS 184.423 (2).


  State Agency Actions

  1.         Within 90 days of the date of this Order, the director of the agencies identified in paragraph 3
  below, shall designate a senior manager within each such agency as the agency’s sustainability
  coordinator (“Sustainability Coordinator”), ‘The Sustainability Coordinator is responsible for the
  agency's compliance with this Order

  2.         Within 90 days of the Board’s issuance of the Sustainability Guidance, each Sustainability
  Coordinator shall prepare a plan to implement such guidance and submit the plan to the Board
  (Plan”).     ‘The agency's Plan shall include appropriate performance measures, and a strategy for
  meeting the Sustainability Guidance that is incorporated into the agency's 2- and 6-year strategie
  plans as well as the agency’s bienmial budget submission to DAS, as appropriate.


  3.         In accordance with ORS 184,423 Section 2 (5), the following agencies shall each develop and
  implement a Plan as described above in paragraph        1.:   Administrative Services, Economic and
  Community Development, Environmental Quality,            Land Conservation and Development, Housing,
  Forestry, Energy. Transportation, Progress Board, Agriculture, Watershed Enhancement, Parks and
  Reereation, Fish and Wildlife, State Lands, Water Resources, the Public Utilities Commission,
  Human Services, Corrections, Higher Education, and Community and Business Services.


  Done at Salem, Oregon this /ie day of CP
                                   qth




                                                       ‘Theodore
                                                               R. Kulongoskt
                                                       GOVERNOR




                                                        fll Bradbury
                                                       SECRETARY OF STATE
