Office
     of theGovernor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 03 - 09


  DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN SHERMAN
  COUNTY AND WALLOWA COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
  CONDITIONS.

  Pursuant to ORS 401.055, | find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and weather
  patterns have the potential to cause an imminent natural and economic disaster in Sherman
  County and Wallowa County (the "Affected Counties"). Projected weather patterns are not
  expected to significantly alleviate the current conditions; drought conditions are continuing.
  These conditions are expected to have profound consequences on the Affected County's
  agricultural, livestock, and natural resources and are likely to result in stark economic
  impacts.

  ‘Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department of
  Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency Management.


  A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic security of the
  citizens and businesses ofthe Affected Counties, I am therefore declaring a “state of drought
  emergency” in the Affected Counties and directing the following activities;


  IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

          I      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
  assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and affect agricultural
  recovery in the Affected Counties,


          I.     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and provide
  assistance and regulation for the Affected Counties as it determines is necessary in
  accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


         TIL,    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist as
  needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected conditions
  in the Affected Counties.


         IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
  to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist affected political
  subdivisions in the Affected Counties.
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 03-09
PAGE TWO




    Vv.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2003

     Done at Salem, Oregon this /5* “day of       2003




                                        ATTST:



                                        SECRETARY OF
