Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 04-01

DETERMINATION          OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN KLAMATH
COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS.


Pursuant to ORS 401.055, I find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and weather
patterns have the potential to cause an imminent natural and economic disaster in Klamath
County (the "Affected County”), Projected weather pattems are not expected to significantly
alleviate the current conditions; drought conditions are continuing. These conditions are
expected to have profound consequences on the Affected County’s agricultural, livestock,
and natural resources and are likely
                                  to result in stark economic impacts.

Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department of
Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency Management.

A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic security of the
citizens and businesses of the Affected County, 1 am therefore declaring a “state of drought
emergency” in the Affected County and directing the following activities;

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

        I.     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
assistance in secking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and effect agricultural
recovery in the Affected County.


        Il,    The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and provide
assistance and regulation for the Affected County as it determines is necessary in accordance
with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


        III,   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist as
needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected conditions
in the Affected County.


        TV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist affected political
subdivisions in the Affected County.
Office of the Governor
State ofOregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. EO 04-01
PAGE TWO




    WV:     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2004

     Done at Salem, Oregon this 20% day of February, 2004




                                     OD ‘\\ a
                                       Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                        GOVERNOR



                                       ATTEST:




                                       Bil Bradbury
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE
