Office of theGovernor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 05 - 07


AUTHORIZATION FOR THE OREGON STATE FAIR AND EXPOSITION
CENTER TO LAW ENFORCEMENT DATA SYSTEM


ORS 181.010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(b) authorize the Govemnor to allow Law
Enforcement Data System access to designated state and local agencies which require such
information “for agency employment purposes, licensing purposes or other demonstrated
needs when designated by order ofthe Governor.” Executive Order No. 90-05 grants such
access to a number of state agencies and establishes the conditions under which such access
is authorized, Subsequent Executive Orders have authorized additional state agencies to
access such information for various purposes.

The Oregon State Fair and Exposition Center (the “State Fair”) has requested access to the
Oregon State Police criminal offender information system for the purpose of conducting
background investigations on prospective employees where the protection of public safety or
State Fair funds or assets makes such investigations advisable,

Enrolled House Bill 2157, signed by the Governor on August 17, 2005, establishes new
authority and procedures through which state agencies may obtain criminal records
information regarding prospective employees.    HB 2157 requires that state agencies adopt
certain rules regarding such background checks. Because HB 2157 was signed by the
Governor less than one week before the date of this Executive Order, and because ofthe
impending commencement of the fair, it is not practicable for the State Fair to adopt the
necessary rules to utilize the procedures established under HB 2157 prior to the beginning of
the fair, HB 2157 does not affect the pre-existing authority of the Governor to designate
state agencies as “designated agencies” authorized to receive    criminal offender information
for employment purposes. Therefore, this Executive Order 1s issued for the limited purpose
and for the limited time stated herein so that necessary background checks can be conducted
before commencement ofthe fair, as allowed by HB 2157 and pre-existing law.


THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


1.     Pursuant to ORS 181.010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(B). 1 hereby authorize the
       Oregon State Police to provide the State Fair with access to the Oregon State Police
       criminal offender information system solely for the purpose of conducting
       background investigations on prospective employees for those positions where the
       State Fair concludes that protection of public safety or State Fair funds or assets
       makes such investigations advisable.
Office  ofthe Governor
State of Orego:

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 05-07
PAGE TWO




     Executive Order No. 90-05, and all other applicable law, continue to govern the
     compilation, maintenance, and dissemination ofcriminal offender information as
     defined in ORS 181.010(3), and govern the access to the Oregon State Police criminal
     offender information system authorized by this Order.


     This Order is effective immediately and expires September 30, 2005.



            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 23rd day of August, 2005.




                                        ThA
                                          GOVERNOR


                                          ATTEST




                                           Paty
                                          SECRETARY OF STATE
