Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 06


    USING OREGON’S GREEN ADVANTAGE TO MAXIMIZE THE
    FEDERAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY PACKAGE


    In the coming days, President Obama will sign the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Plan (ARRP). In the short term, this federal economic stimulus
    package will help Oregonians by creating family-wage jobs and supporting critical
    public services like education and health care. This immediate injection into
    Oregon’s economy is vital and necessary.


    Equally important, the ARRP represents an opportunity for Oregon to demonstrate
    how smart resource investments can create new long-term capacity in our
    communities and spark sustainable economic activity throughout the state.
    Leveraging these federal stimulus dollars to create even more jobs, train workers,
    reduce taxpayer costs, and invest in a cleaner environment is the real key to long
    term recovery through reinvestment. The ARRP empowers Oregon to reinvest in
    its economy by being smart, sustainable and transformational — the Oregon Way.


    Oregon’s success in sustainability serves as the basis for this initiative. The State
    of Oregon has already demonstrated its commitment to investing in renewable
    energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating a sustainable future. The
    strength of this commitment has, in turn, fostered and empowered world-class
    private sector expertise in alternative energy and green development. This
    combination of public and private leadership makes Oregon the ideal place to
    initiate a new model for delivering such a transformational change.

    As the federal stimulus funding decisions move to the state level, Oregon has
    already started defining strategic, sustainable and transformational investments in
    cormmmunities throughout the state. Partnering with local governments, non-profit
    organizations, and Oregon businesses, the State seeks to identify a set of economic
    stimulus projects that create more jobs, increase economic value and enhance our
    investment in green technology. These Oregon Way examples could even serve as
    national demonstration projects for other states to model.


    To successfully compete for the competitive grants outlined in the ARRP, Oregon
    has a singular opportunity to apply its homegrown expertise and strong
    commitment to sustainability by forming unique partnerships and taking innovation .
    to a new level. Collaborative economic solutions through a public/private
    partnership are the way Oregon will be able to generate the short-term benefits and
    long-term advantages that will see us through the current economic crisis.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09-06
    PAGE TWO


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


            1.     The Oregon Way Advisory Group is hereby established to advise
    and assist those seeking competitive federal stimulus grants by developing grant
    proposals including innovative elements promoting sustainability, renewable
    energy, carbon reduction, energy efficiency and green development — proposals for
    projects done the Oregon Way.


            2.     The Oregon Way Advisory Group shall be appointed by the
    Governor and shall include representatives from the public and private sectors who
    can provide expertise and innovation in developing Oregon Way project proposals.


            3.      The Oregon Way Advisory Group shall assist the Governor in
    identifying, developing, prioritizing, and evaluating Oregon Way projects using
    criteria designed to create both short-term and long-term benefit to Oregon,
    including, but not limited to:


                   a       Immediate job creation for Oregonians
                   b.      Use of Oregon companies and sourcing of local materials to
                           keep stimulus funds in Oregon
                   c.      Green jobs training that accompanies projects
                   d.      Promotion of Oregon’s sustainability, renewable energy,
                           carbon reduction, energy efficiency and green development
                           goals
                   e.      Innovative approaches in technology, partnership, process
                           and life cycle optimization
                   f.      Potential to attract additional federal money through block
                           grants and other sources.


            4.     Any state agency applying for a competitive federal grant under
    ARRP shall notify the Governor, who may advance the proposal to the Oregon
    Way Advisory Group for advice and assistance on maximizing the factors listed in
    paragraph 3.


            5.     In addition, all state agencies receiving federal stimulus funds
    through the ARRP are encouraged to identify opportunities to use federal stimulus
    funds the Oregon Way, by incorporating the factors listed in paragraph 3 into
    projects whenever possible. Agency directors shall report their identification of
    such opportunities to the Governor within 60 days of the President’s signing of the
    ARRP.




                                                                                          He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 09 — 06
    PAGE THREE


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 11th day of February, 2009.




                                       aaydae
                                           Theodore R. Kulongosid
                                           GOVERNOR


                                           ATTEST:




                                           Koti
                                             emr —
                                           Kate Brown
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE
