Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-11


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN DOUGLAS AND
   JOSEPHINE COUNTIES DUE TO EXTREME FIRE


   Pursuant to ORS 476.510 through 476.610, I find that an extreme fire has caused
   and immediately threatens to cause local adverse natural and economic disaster in
   conditions in Douglas County. The fire was one of several started through
   lightning strikes in the area. The conditions have resulted in threats to numerous
   structures, evacuations of several homes, and broad impacts to timber lands.

   The high temperatures and erratic winds caused the fire to grow quickly.
   Approximately 4000 acres were burned. Professional and volunteer firefighters are
   to be commended for their fire defense efforts and success in limiting damages and
   protecting life and property under challenging conditions.


   The conditions resulting from the Douglas Complex Fire threaten significant
   economic loss to Douglas County, as well as to the county’s agricultural and
   natural resource land bases.


   A timely response to this situation is vital to the well being and economic security
   of the citizens and businesses in the region. I am therefore declaring a state of
   emergency in Douglas County and direct the following activities:


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1,   The Oregon State Fire Marshal shall activate an Incident Management
            Team to deploy Command and General Staff elements to the fire
      2.    The Oregon State Fire Marshal shall activate all necessary Task Forces to
            assist with containment
      3.    All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agency and
            to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
            affected political subdivisions in Douglas County


   This emergency is declared only for Douglas County and expires on December 31,
   2013


            These findings were made verbally on July 27, 2013 at 7:09 p.m.
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

|      EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-11
       PAGE TWO


       FURTHERMORE
       The conditions that exist in Douglas County listed above are also present in
       Josephine County. The Douglas Complex Fire has spread into Josephine County
       and threatens several thousand acres, as well as structures, natural resources, and
       agricultural assets.

       IT IS FURTHER HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


           1.   The Oregon State Fire Marshal shall activate an Incident Management
                Team to deploy Command and General Staff elements to the fire
           2.   The Oregon State Fire Marshal shall activate all necessary Task Forces to
                assist with containment
           3.   All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agency and
                to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
                affected political subdivisions in Josephine County

       This emergency is declared only for Josephine County and expires on December
       31, 2013

                These findings were made verbally on July 29, 2013 at 12:43 p.m.



       Done at Salem, Oregon this 2h         day of August, 2013.




                                                                 AHLp
                                                      Join A. Kitzhabef/MD
                                                        OVERNOR


                                                      ATTEST:




                                                        KeLVen—
                                                      Kate Brown
                                                      SECRETARY OF STATE
