Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15-06

   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   GILLIAM, JEFFERSON, COOS AND DOUGLAS COUNTIES DUE TO
   DROUGHT, LOW SNOW PACK LEVELS, AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS

   At the request of Gilliam County (by Resolution 2015-07 dated June 3, 2015),
   Jefferson County (by Resolution R-014-15 dated June 3, 2015), Coos County (by
   Resolution 15-06-080L dated June 11, 2015), and Douglas County (by Resolution
   2015-0458 dated June 10, 2015), and based on the recommendations of the
   Drought Council and the Water Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS
   401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and
   lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster conditions in
   Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and Douglas counties.

   Projected precipitation and climatic conditions are not expected to alleviate the
   continuing drought conditions, and the drought is having significant economic and
   other impacts on communities and agricultural, livestock, and natural resources in
   Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and Douglas counties.

   The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops, agricultural and
   other economic interests are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
   surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
   greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
   agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
   Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons,
   property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Gilliam, Jefferson,
   Coos and Douglas counties. I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing
   drought emergency exists in Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and Douglas counties, and
   directing the following actions.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 06
   PAGE TWO



   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


     I.    The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
           provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
           conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos
           and Douglas counties.


     IL.   The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
           Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
           users in Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and Douglas counties as they
           determine is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
           to 536.780.


     Il.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
           assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
           current and projected conditions in Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and
           Douglas counties.


     IV.   All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
           agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined
           necessary to assist affected political subdivisions water users and other
           affected interests in Gilliam, Jefferson, Coos and Douglas counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 06
   PAGE THREE




     Vv.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.




     Done at Salem, Oregon, this | (Baay of June, 2015.




                                             Kut, Sum—
                                           KATE BROWN
                                            GOVERNOR


                                                   ATTEST:




                                        Qeewnel Lthews
                                           Jeanne P. Atkins
                                            SECRETARY OF STATE
