Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-04

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    JACKSON COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS                            |



    At the request of Jackson County by and through its County Commission in a letter
    dated March 19, 2014, on the recommendation of the Drought Council and Water
    Advisory Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the
    continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused
    natural and economic disaster conditions in Jackson County.


    Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions and
    the drought is having significant economic impact on Jackson County’s
    agricultural, livestock, and natural resources.

    The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops and agricultural
    and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
    surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
    greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
    agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
    Resources, and Oregon Office of Emergency Management.

    A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
    and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Jackson
    County; I am therefore declaring a state of drought emergency in Jackson County
    and directing the following activities;

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:
           It      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance
                    in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in Jackson County.                                  |

           INE     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for Jackson County as it determines is necessary
   in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

           Il.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in Jackson County.




                                                                                           Materials
Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 04
    PAGE TWO



           IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above                      |
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    affected political subdivisions in Jackson County.

           V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2014.


           Done at Salem, Oregon this lo      day of May, 2014.




                                                 ATTEST:


                                                                 RIW—
                                                 Kate    Brown                                              |
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE                                         |




                                                                                            z29
                                                                                              38  eae
