Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11-03


    AUTHORIZATION FOR OREGON BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
    DEPARTMENT dba BUSINESS OREGON ACCESS TO LAW
    ENFORCEMENT DATA SYSTEM


    ORS 181.010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(b) authorize the Governor to allow
    Law Enforcement Data System access to designated state and local agencies which
    require such information “for agency employment purposes, licensing purposes or
    other demonstrated needs when designated by order of the Governor.” Executive
    Order No. 90-05 grants such access to a number of state agencies and establishes
    the conditions under which such access is authorized. Subsequent Executive
    Orders have authorized access for additional state and local agencies for various
    purposes.



    The Oregon Business Development Department dba Business Oregon requires
    access to the Oregon State Police criminal offender information system in order to
    conduct background investigations on prospective employees and service
    providers.


    THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


        1.   Pursuant to ORS 181.010(6) and OAR 257-010-0025(1)(b), I hereby
        authorize the Oregon State Police to provide the Oregon Business
             Development Department with access to the Oregon State Police criminal
             offender information system solely for the purpose of conducting
             background investigations on prospective employees or service providers
             for specific identified positions involved with cash receipting and
             depositing, payroll preparation functions, mail services, access to personal
             information about employees or members of the public, system
             administrator access to IT systems, or access to tax or financial information
             about individuals or business entities.




                                                                                             beso
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


      2. Executive Order No. 90-05 continues to govern the compilation,
         maintenance, and dissemination of criminal offender information as defined
         in ORS 181.010(3), and that Order governs the access to the Oregon State
         Police criminal offender information system authorized by this Order.

         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2        day of Match,       , 2011.




                                      ATTEST:                                         -


                                  Kur Chos,)
                                  " * Katherine Brown
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                          He
