Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-20


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    MORROW COUNTY DUE TO LOW STREAMFLOW AND HOT, DRY
    CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflows and hot, dry
    conditions are likely to cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Morrow
    County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
    2018.


    Forecasted water conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is likely to
    have significant economic impacts on the agriculture and livestock sectors, natural
    resources, and recreational and tourism economies in Morrow County. Extreme
    conditions already observed include fire, reduced streamflow, and precipitation.
    Conditions are being monitored by the state’s natural resource and public safety
    agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and timely response to drought are vital to the health and safety of
    persons, property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of
    Morrow County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency
    exists in Morrow County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    L       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
            provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
            conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Morrow County.


    II.     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users
            in Morrow County as the Department and Commission determine is
            necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


    II.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
            as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
            projected conditions in Morrow County.




                                                                                          Contains


                                                                                          Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-20
    PAGE TWO


    IV.   All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
          and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected
          political subdivisions and water users in Morrow County.


          This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.

                                           +h
          Done at Salem, Oregon, this           day of August, 2018.




                                                          —
                                                     helene
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR




                                                 ATTEST:




                                                              /



                                                 Dennis Richardson
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                        Contains
