Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-07


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN JOSEPHINE
   COUNTY DUE TO EXTREME FIRE


   Pursuant to ORS 476.510 through 476.610, I find that an extreme fire has caused
   and immediately threatens to cause local adverse natural and economic disaster in
   conditions in Josephine County. The conditions have resulted in loss of structures
   and vehicle, voluntary evacuations of one town, threats to additional structures, and
   broad impacts to timber lands.

   The high temperatures and erratic winds caused the fire to grow quickly.
   Approximately 500 acres were burned. Professional and volunteer firefighters are
   to be commended for their fire defense efforts and success in limiting damages and
   protecting life and property under challenging conditions.

   The conditions resulting from the Pacifica Fire threaten significant economic loss
   to Josephine County, as well as to the county’s agricultural and natural resource
   land bases.

   A timely response to this situation is vital to the well being and economic security
   of the citizens and businesses in the region. I am therefore declaring a state of
   emergency in Josephine County and direct the following activities:

   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1.   The Oregon State Fire Marshall shall activate an Incident Management
            Team to deploy Command and General Staff elements to the fire.
      2.    The Oregon State Fire Marshall shall activate all necessary Task Forces to
            assist with containment.
      3.    All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agency and
            to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
            affected political subdivisions in Josephine County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-07
   PAGE TWO



   This emergency is declared only for Josephine County and expires on
                                                                       December
   31, 2013


          This order was made by verbal proclamation at 5:17 p.m. the 19"
                                                                            day of
   July, 2013.

          Done at Salem, Oregon this_ 29 _ day of July, 2013.




                                             Jofn    A. Kitzhgbey, MD
                                                    VERNOR




                                             Kate e     db.


                                             SECRETARY OF STATE
