Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-11


   STATUARY HALL STUDY COMMISSION


   This Order creates the Statuary Hall Study Commission and charges it with
   studying and recommending to the 2015 Legislature whether to replace one of
   Oregon’s statues in the National Statuary Hall Collection of the United States
   Capitol, and, if a replacement is recommended, which Oregonian should be newly
   memorialized in the National Statuary Hall Collection.


   In 1864, the United States Congress passed legislation converting the former House
   of Representatives Chamber into a venue for displaying statues of citizens from
   each state “illustrious for their historic renown or for distinguished civic or military
   services.” 2 U.S.C. § 2131. The National Statuary Hall Collection now includes
   100 statues contributed by fifty states. These statues serve as a reminder of each
   state’s heritage and shared values.


   Over time, recognition of influential historical figures has evolved and expanded.
   Reflective of the continuing growth and development of our nation, federal
   legislation enacted in 2000 provides procedures for states to reclaim one of their
   statues in the National Statuary Hall Collection and replace it with a new statue. 2
   U.S.C. § 2132. Pursuant to these procedures, any state may request the
   replacement of one of their statues if the request has been approved by a resolution
   adopted by the state legislature and approved by the Governor and the statue to be
   replaced has been displayed for at least ten years. Replacement of a statue does not
   prevent the return or rotation of a statue after the prescribed ten-year display
   requirement.


   Seven states have replaced statues since the amendment. In the same vein of
   making history more contemporary, Congress authorized the placement of a statue
   honoring Rosa Parks in 2005, and last year House Speaker John Boehner and Vice
   President Joe Biden led a bipartisan delegation to unveil the placement of a statue
   of Frederick Douglass.


   Oregon has been represented by Jason Lee and John McLoughlin in the National
   Statuary Hall for sixty years. Both men played significant roles in the founding of
   our state. Recent legislative sessions have included discussion on whether
   Oregon’s statues should be updated to better reflect our state’s modern values and
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-11
   PAGE TWO


   spirit. Accordingly, the Statuary Hall Study Commission is tasked with studying
   and recommending whether to update one of Oregon’s statues in the United States
   Capitol, and, if a replacement is recommended, which Oregonian should be
   memorialized. The Commission, in addition to representing the diversity of
   geography and interests of Oregon, shall hold public meetings in separate
   Congressional districts and receive input from a wide range of Oregonians via
   public, electronic, and written testimony.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       1. The Statuary Hall Study Commission is established.

               a.   The Commission shall consist of nine voting members appointed as
                    follows:


                        i.   The President of the Senate shall appoint two members.


                       ii.   The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint
                             two members.


                      iii.   The Governor shall appoint five members, consisting of one
                             member representing the Oregon Historical Society and four
                             members of the public.


      2.    In addition to the nine voting members, the Commission will also include
            the Oregon Historical Society Executive Director as an ex-officio, non-
            voting member to serve the Commission in an advisory capacity.


       3.   All members shall serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority.


      4.    The Governor shall appoint one member to serve as chairperson. The
            Commission shall meet at least four times at the direction of the chairperson
            of the Commission or of a majority of the voting members of the
            Commission. The meetings shall be public meeings heldin separate
            Congressional districts in Oregon.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-11
   PAGE THREE


        A majority of the voting members of the Commission constitutes a quorum
        for the transaction of business. Official action by the Commission requires
        the approval of a majority of the voting members of the Commission.


        If there is a vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall make an
        appointment to become effective immediately.


        The Commission shall study and recommend to the 2015 Oregon
        Legislative Assembly whether to replace one of Oregon’s statues in the
        National Statuary Hall Collection of the United States Capitol, and, if
        replacement is recommended, which Oregonian should be honored in the
        National Statuary Hall Collection. Additionally, in the event that a
        replacement is recommended, the Commission shall also recommend a
        suitable location of honor in Oregon, open to the public, to display the
        replaced statue.


        Before making its final recommendations to the Legislature, the
        Commission shall encourage input from a wide range of Oregonians via
        public, electronic, and written testimony. In particular, the Commission
        shall solicit input from schoolchildren throughout Oregon, as well as from
        historical societies throughout Oregon.


        The Commission shall make its final recommendation to the Legislature on
        February 4, 2015.


     10. All agencies of state government as defined in ORS 174.111 are directed to
        assist the Commission in the performance of its duties and, to the extent
        permitted by laws relating to confidentiality, to furnish such information
        and advice as the members of the Commission consider necessary to
        perform their duties.


     iil, Notwithstanding ORS 171.072, members of the Commission who are
        members of the Legislative Assembly are not entitled to mileage expenses
        or a per diem and serve as volunteers on the Commission. Other members
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-11
   PAGE FOUR


        of the Commission are not entitled to compensation or reimbursement for
        expenses and serve as volunteers on the Commission.


     12. This order shall expire May 1, 2015.


        Done at Portland, Oregon this 20" day of August, 2014.




                                                ATTEST:




                                                |
                                                Kate Brown
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
