Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10 - 07


    REBUILDING VERNONIA’S SCHOOLS AND THE SURROUNDING
    COMMUNITY IN THE WAKE OF THE DECEMBER 2007 STORM


    During the December 2007 storm, eleven inches of rain fell in little more than a
    day, causing flooding in thirty-five square miles of Columbia County. At my
    direction, state agencies including the Oregon National Guard, the Office of
    Emergency Management, and the Department of Corrections, responded to offer
    help, aid, and assistance.


    Much of Vernonia’s public infrastructure and property was damaged or destroyed
    in the flood. The flood damaged every public school building. As much as five
    feet of floodwater poured into the elementary school, and water rendered the
    middle school and high school uninhabitable. Since the flood, the nearly 700
    students of the school district have had to attend school in the minimally-repaired
    grade school building, the middle school, and modular classrooms located nearby.
    Half of the district’s 2,200 homes suffered damage, with 800 homes suffering
    substantial damage, and over 100 homes deemed to be beyond repair.

    In addition, the city’s infrastructure was significantly impacted by the flood. Water
    tainted by the compromised sewage system inundated the health clinic, food bank,
    and senior center, as well as West Oregon Electric’s main office and electrical
    substations. The waste water treatment facility was also severely damaged.

    Despite these challenges, much good has happened. The flooding resulted in an
    outpouring of concern, interest, and aid from across Oregon and from a wide group
    of interests. Of particular concern has been the rebuilding of the community’s
    schools. In 2008, I designated the recovery effort an Oregon Solutions project and
    appointed taskforce members representing federal, state and local government,
    private industry, civic organizations and philanthropy to bring capacity to the
    recovery effort and to chart a course to a successful rebuilding of the schools and
    community. This designation continues to attract valuable new partners to the
    table.


    The community is working valiantly to rebuild. In November 2009, Vernonia
    School District voters approved a $13 million bond to build a new integrated K-12
    school complex outside of the flood plain in Spencer Park. Oregon Solutions will
    continue to lead the effort to close the gap in financing needed to rebuild the
    schools.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-07
    PAGE TWO


    Notwithstanding the fact that it experienced two significant and damaging flood
    events in eleven years, Vernonia can be seen as a classic example of the decline of
    Oregon’s rural resource based economy. This community was one of the first
    historic timber towns to see the loss of its forest products infrastructure. Ifa
    strategy can be designed and implemented to bring this community back, beginning
    with its schools, the economy of the surrounding region can be revitalized. In
    addition to this significant achievement, a model will be in place that can then be
    replicated across other hard hit communities of the state. Success in Vernonia will
    send an important message that the tools exist to rebuild economic viability in’
    Oregon’s rural, as well as its urban communities.


    To facilitate reconstruction of Vernonia’s damaged schools and to bring about the
    economic revitalization of the region, agencies are encouraged to think broadly and
    creatively about actions that can be taken. This Order directs state agencies to
    work collaboratively and assist Vernonia and its surrounding community to rebuild
    its schools and public infrastructure.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    1.      All state agencies with roles and responsibilities for oversight, funding and
    regulation shall work in a cooperative and coordinated manner with local and
    federal government entities to assist Vernonia’s efforts to rebuild its public schools.
    When consistent with state and federal law, agencies shall provide help, aid and
    assistance and give priority to the immediate task of school rebuilding. In
    particular, the following actions shall be taken:


           a.      The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (OPRD) shall give
                   priority to the processing of the application to the National Park
                   Service for the conversion of Spencer Park to a non-park use for the
                   new school complex;
           b.      The Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) shall work
                   cooperatively with the school district for the proposed changes to
                   the intersection of Highway 47 and Missouri Avenue, which will
                   provide primary access road for the new school complex;
           c.      The Department of State Lands shall give priority to the review of
                   removal/fill permit applications and wetland mitigation
                   requirements related to school site development;
           d.      The Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries
                   (DOGAMI) shall help with Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR)
                   data collection, interpretation and application in assessing school




                                                                                              ie
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10 - 07
    PAGE THREE

                   location safety, potential flood threats, and wastewater runoff
                   proposals; and
             e.    The Oregon University System, the Department of Community
                   Colleges and Workforce Development and Oregon State University
                   will explore opportunities to add forest management programs and
                   curriculum at the new school campus, including research, training
                   and help in promoting the development of businesses and
                   infrastructure utilizing wood as an economic resource.

    2.      State agencies shall also strive to assist Vernonia’s efforts to rebuild and
    restore essential public infrastructure. In particular, the following actions shall be
    taken:

             a.    OPRD shali work with the city to transfer a parcel of property
                   adjacent to the Banks Vernonia State Trail for the purposes of
                   establishing facilities to provide senior services, a food bank, and
                   community health services. OPRD shall also assist the city in
                   planning for the use of the hundred plus acres of land to be acquired
                   through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
                   buyout program and in its ultimate use in the city as an open space
                   in perpetuity;
             b.    The Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) shall give priority
                   to the review of the environmental assessment for the new waste
                   water treatment facility and explore wastewater funding
                   opportunities for the community. DEQ shall also help the city to
                   overcome the effects of existing environmental contamination by
                   providing Brownfield technical assistance to affect safe and timely
                   property redevelopment;
             c.    The Department of Land Conservation and Development shall
                   continue to assist the community of Vernonia in land use planning
                   for its urban area in light of updated information concerning
                   development hazards and evolving community needs associated
                   with economic revitalization;           :
             d.    ODOT shall give priority to reviewing and providing technical
                   assistance with transportation system improvements in response to
                   flood recovery efforts; and
             e.    The Oregon Business Development Department shall promote
                   access to the Special Public Works Fund, the Immediate
                   Opportunity Fund and where appropriate, funding using the State
                   Small Cities Community Deyelopment Block Grant Program to




                                                                                             t
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10 — 07
    PAGE FOUR


                   make available local health clinic, food bank and senior center
                   facilities.


    3.     State agencies shall seek to facilitate economic development and
    revitalization in Vernonia. Specifically, the following actions shall be taken:


           a.      The Oregon Department of Forestry shall explore opportunities to
                   facilitate the delivery of a renewable wood fuel supply from the
                   Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, as well as private ownerships
                   in the region. Agency activities related to developing wood as a
                   renewable fuel source in northwest Oregon will be considered an
                   important priority;
           b.      The Oregon Department of Energy shall assist with identifying and
                   securing renewable energy and sustainable building upgrade               |
                   opportunities; and
           c.      To the extent consistent with the DAS Facilities Division facility
                   siting process (Policy Number 125-6-115) and the agency’s mission,
                   agencies shall consider siting a state facility in Vernonia.


    4.     The Oregon Military Department’s Office of Emergency Management shall
    continue to work closely with federal agencies in the coordination of recovery
    efforts and in working to secure appropriate help and funding.


    5.     State agencies shall continue to communicate and collaborate with the
    Oregon Solutions taskforce about school and infrastructure rebuilding efforts as
    well as economic development opportunities.


    6.     State agencies shall report to the Governor on a periodic basis, as requested,
    regarding their progress in implementing this Order.


    7.     This order expires on June 30, 2013.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-07
    PAGE FIVE


                Done at Salem, Oregon, this 3a day of August, 2010.




                                                          NG
                                            Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                            GOVERNOR


                                            ATTEST:                   D




                                              \G. a), <_—_
                                            Kate Brown,               t
                                            SECRETARY OF STATE
