Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-01


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN BENTON, COOS,
   LINCOLN AND MARION COUNTIES DUE TO SEVERE WINTER
   WEATHER


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that severe winter weather including heavy snow,
   freezing rain, torrential rain, snow melt, and record flooding have resulted in a
   threat to life safety and property damage in Benton, Coos, Lincoln, and Marion
   Counties beginning on January 17, 2012 and continuing. These conditions have
   resulted in evacuations of more than 200 residents, road closures, stranded
   motorists, flooded buildings and homes, power outages and many areas of
   inaccessibility.

   In Benton, Coos, Lincoln, and Marion Counties, recent snow, ice, heavy rain and
   record flooding have made a significant number of roads inaccessible to emergency
   vehicles or emergency related vehicles. There are immediate life, health, and safety
   issues caused by this severe winter weather and requests for additional labor,
   supplies, and equipment.

   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:



       1.   The Oregon Military Department’s Office of Emergency Management shall
            implement the State’s Emergency Operations Plan, and coordinate with
            state and local agencies impacted by this severe winter weather event.


      2.    The Oregon National Guard shall provide the necessary manpower and
            equipment required to respond to requests from counties received by
            Oregon Emergency Management to facilitate response to this severe winter
            weather event.


       3.   The Oregon Department of Transportation shall provide the necessary
            manpower and equipment required to respond to requests from affected
            counties received by Oregon Emergency Management or in place mutual
            aid agreements to facilitate response to this severe winter weather event.


      4.    Oregon Emergency Management shall coordinate all other appropriate
            agencies of the State of Oregon in using personnel, supplies, and equipment
            required in response to this severe winter weather event;
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12 - 01
   PAGE TWO




      5.   All other departments are directed to coordinate and assist as needed with
           assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected
           conditions.



   This emergency is declared only for Benton, Coos, Lincoln, and Marion
   Counties. Other counties may be added to the declaration at a later time.




           These findings were made verbally on January 19, 2012 at 3:36 p.m.




           Done at Salem, Oregon, this v6] day of January, 2012.



                                                        Ptefh,
                                                   hn A. Kitzhi
                                                GOVERNO


                                                ATTEST:




                                                     (tab ——
                                                Kate Brown
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
