Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-05

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    GRANT, JOSEPHINE, AND WHEELER COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT
    AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS



    At the request of Grant County (Resolution 2014-08 dated April 2, 2014),
    Josephine County (Resolution 2014-020 dated May 15, 2014), and Wheeler County
    (Resolution 2014-3 dated March 5, 2014), and based on recommendations of the
    Drought Council and Water Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165
    and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of
    precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster conditions in Grant,
    Josephine, and Wheeler Counties.

    Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions and
    the drought is having significant economic impact on Grant, Josephine and
    Wheeler Counties’ agricultural, livestock, and natural resources.

    The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops and agricultural
    and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
    surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
    greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
    agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
    Resources, and Oregon Office of Emergency Management.

    A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
    and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Grant,
    Josephine, and Wheeler Counties; | am therefore declaring a state of drought
    emergency in Grant, Josephine, and Wheeler Counties and directing the following
    activities;


    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

            I      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in Grant, Josephine, and Wheeler Counties.

            Il.    The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for Grant, Josephine, and Wheeler Counties as it
    determines is necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

            Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in Grant, Josephine, and Wheeler Counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-05
    PAGE TWO


           IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in Grant, Josephine, and Wheeler Counties.

           V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2014.



           Done at Salem, Oregon this 2 /     day of May, 2014.




                                                 Igin A. ey          MD.
                                                   OVERNOR



                                                 ATTEST:




                                                     Os Biiv—
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
