Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11-10


   PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
   THREAT OF WILDFIRE


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
   situation. While the State had a late onset of fire season due to favorable weather
   in June and July, conditions have changed and extreme burning conditions now
   exist in northeast and central Oregon where fire danger indicators are significantly
   above average. High fire danger also exists in southwest Oregon. The extended
   forecast calls for continued warmer and drier than normal conditions over many
   parts of the state. The imminent threat of wildfire exists over a broad area of the
   state including forests in the Cascades and eastern and southern Oregon. In fact,
   several large fires are currently burning in the state in remote and difficult terrain.


   With over 2100 firefighters currently engaged in the effort, there is a need for
   immediate access to the unique air ambulance services that only the Oregon
   National Guard can provide due to their night and hoist capabilities. This threat is
   not likely to recede in the near future. It is critically important that National Guard
   resources can be positioned to respond adequately and effectively to this dangerous
   and dynamic situation.


   Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
   State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.



   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   1.   The Oregon Military Department through its Office of Emergency Management
        and the Oregon Department of Forestry is authorized to coordinate the use of
        personnel and equipment of the State for the performance of air ambulance
        service with hoist capability to respond immediately in the case of a firefighter
        injury in remote parts of the state.


   2.   This determination of a fire emergency is statewide. It is not to be construed as
        a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes.
        It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for air ambulance
        services, extended stand-by, and for the purpose of life saving mission
        assignments as needed. Any local government requests for state resources must
        be submitted through county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency
        Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.
            »Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11-10
   PAGE TWO


   3.   This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
        fire season ends.


        This order was made by verbal proclamation at 1:17 p.m. on the 31“ day of
        August, 2011.


                             ,                   YL
            Done at Sallog , Oregon, this 4            day of September, 2011.



                                                    Toth    A. Kitzhabe}, MD
                                                           VERNO


                                                    ATTEST:




                                                    Kafe Brown             ,
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
