Office of the Governor



   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11-11


   PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
   THREAT OF WILDFIRE


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
   situation. Much of the state is now in extreme fire danger and red flag warnings
   have been issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and thunderstorms. Other parts of
   the country continue to experience fires and similar fire weather. The extended
   forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and dry conditions over many parts of
   the State. The imminent threat of wildfire exists over a broad area of the State
   including forests in the Cascades and eastern and southern Oregon. One fire on the
   Mt Hood National Forest now threatens the water supply of the City of Portland
   and critical electrical power infrastructure.


   With the firefighting aircraft of the nation fully committed, unfilled orders for large
   helicopters on Oregon fires and the threat of more new ignitions in the near future,
   there is a need for immediate access to Oregon National Guard resources including
   firefighting helicopters. This threat is not likely to recede in the near future. It is
   critically important that National Guard resources can be positioned to respond
   adequately and effectively to this dangerous and dynamic situation.


   Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
   State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.



   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   1.   The Oregon Military Department through its Office of Emergency Management
        and the Oregon Department of Forestry are authorized to coordinate the use of
        personnel and equipment of the State for wildland firefighting in Oregon with
        National Guard resources.


   2.   This determination of a fire emergency is statewide. It is not to be construed as
        a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes.
        It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for wildland firefighting.
        Any local government requests for state resources must be submitted through
        county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency Management pursuant to
        ORS Chapter 401.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11 - 11
   PAGE TWO



   3.   This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
        fire season ends.




                                        _    th        :
            Done at Salem, Oregon, this i a day of September, 2011.




                                                    J6hn A. Kitzhaver) MD
                                                      OVERNO


                                                    ATTEST:




                                                    Kdte Brown
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
