    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

       EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 02

       DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LAKE
|      AND MALHEUR COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
       CONDITIONS


       At the request of Lake County (by Resolution 15-03-10 dated March 10, 2015) and
       Malheur County (by Resolution 2015-0648 dated March 4, 2015), and based on the
       recommendations of the Drought Council and the Water Availability Committee,
       and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry
       conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and
       economic disaster conditions in Lake and Malheur Counties.


       Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
       the drought is having significant economic impacts on agricultural, livestock, and
       natural resources in Malheur and Lake Counties.


       The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops and agricultural
       and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
       surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
       greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
       agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
       Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


       A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
       and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Lake and
       Malheur Counties. I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing drought
       emergency exists in Lake and Malheur Counties, and directing the following
       actions.


       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

                  I      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
       provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
       assist in agricultural recovery in Lake and Malheur Counties.

                  Il.    The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
       Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
       Lake and Malheur Counties as the Department and Commission determine is
       necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

                  Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
       assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
       projected conditions in Lake and Malheur Counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 02
   PAGE TWO


          IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions and water users in Lake and Malheur Counties.

          V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.



          Done at Salem, Oregon this | ti iay of March, 2015.



                                                    Kut Cra
                                                KATE BROWN
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                          G Atheis
                                                Jeanne Atkins
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
