Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-07


   A PILOT PROGRAM FOR REGIONAL FARM AND FOREST LAND
   CONSERVATION


   Oregon’s land use program has successfully conserved important farm and forest
   lands, helping to maintain the key roles of agriculture and forest products in the
   state’s economy (the second and third largest industries in Oregon). Almost all of
   the lands devoted to farm or forest uses in Oregon in the mid 1980s are still
   planned for those uses today. In contrast, Washington, California and Idaho have
   lost substantial amounts of farm and forest lands to urban and rural sprawl.


   Rural development, if not carefully managed, can lead to substantial public costs.
   The major driver of the high (and increasing) cost of fighting wildfire is the cost of
   protecting rural residences. Police, schools, roads and social services also can be
   more difficult and expensive to provide to scattered residences in rural settings.
   Rural development can interfere with forest and some farm operations as a result of
   conflicts over pesticides, noise, truck traffic and other normal aspects of farming
   and forestry. Research by the Oregon Department of Forestry shows that once
   there are more than about four homes per square mile, forest lands typically are
   managed less for timber operations and more for their residential real estate value.
   Dispersed rural development also puts stress on drinking water supplies, leading to
   conflicts over groundwater, and has lead to significant water pollution problems in
   places like South Deschutes County. Finally, dispersed rural development
   adversely affects wildlife and fish habitat, and has led to declines in big game, and
   conflicts over hunting and fishing access.


   Oregon is a great place for growing food and fiber. There are, however, significant
   variations between different regions of the state in terms of the types of farming
   and forest uses that are best suited for the landscape, and in the economic returns
   from farming, forestry and ranching. The flat, fertile fields of the Willamette
   Valley differ from lands in the Rogue and Umpqua valleys and lands along
   Oregon’s coast. High value crop areas in parts of Central Oregon irrigated from the
   Crooked and Deschutes Rivers differ from the high plateau wheat fields in the
   northern part of the state. Livestock operations in Baker Valley differ from
   ranching operations on drier lands in Harney and Malheur counties. In some areas,
   lands currently planned for resource uses have little direct value to their owners for
   those uses.


   For all these reasons, there are both state and local interests in how rural lands are
   planned, what uses are allowed on them, and the intensity of those uses. Some
   counties have planned rural areas for nonresource uses. Other counties have an
   interest in developing region-specific criteria for what lands are planned for
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-07
   PAGE TWO



   resource uses, and allowing lands that do not meet those criteria to be used for non-
   resource uses. Any county or region-wide conversion of resource lands to non-
   resource designations must proceed with care, and include consideration of how the
   affected lands will be used. The process for considering such changes must
   provide for wide-scale public involvement, and include an analysis of costs,
   benefits and likely outcomes.


   The purpose of this executive order is to direct certain state agencies to work with
   three Southern Oregon counties, if those counties elect to participate, in developing
   a pilot program that allows appropriate additional regional variation in what lands
   must be planned and managed as farm and forest lands. Lands that are no longer
   planned and managed as farm and forest lands will still need to be planned for
   sustainable types and levels of uses, so that the economic, fiscal and environmental
   effects of dispersed rural development (described above) are considered and kept at
   a level that is acceptable to both the state and to affected local governments
   (including cities and districts in the area under consideration), and consistent with
   the carrying capacity of the land.


   The three counties that may participate in the pilot project are: Jackson County,
   Douglas County, and Josephine County. This executive order stems from the
   decision of the Legislative Assembly, in its 2012 session, to provide some funding
   for initial work by the counties interested in taking on this effort. The
   understanding between legislative leadership and the Governor was that the
   Governor would issue this executive order, setting out how this pilot effort will
   proceed. The final cost of the program will depend on how many counties elect to
   participate, the criteria that LCDC develops for resource and non-resource lands,
   and the analyses and processes that the counties use to make decisions.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       Ie     The Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) will
              make $350,000 in funds appropriated through SB 5701 available to
              Jackson, Josephine and Douglas counties, if those counties elect to
              participate. DLCD will enter into one or more grant agreements with the
              counties that agree to complete the technical studies, mapping and
              preparation of materials required for preparing a rulemaking petition to
              the Land Conservation and Development Commission (LCDC), which
              petition may not be submitted to LCDC prior to July 1, 2013. Ifa
              petition is submitted by two or more of the counties, LCDC may initiate
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-07
   PAGE THREE



           rulemaking for the purpose of considering a new, regional, approach to
           what lands must be planned and zoned for farm or forest uses


     yy,   Prior to initiating the rulemaking, DLCD will determine whether the
           proposed new rules are likely to require amendments to statewide land
           use planning goals 3 (Agriculture) or 4 (Forestry). Ifthe agency
           determines that one or more amendments to goal 3 or goal 4 are likely
           to be required, LCDC will initiate the process as an amendment to the
           statewide land use planning goals, as well as the implementing rules,
           necessary for the anticipated pilot project to proceed.


     23    In the grant agreement or agreements providing funding to the counties
           under paragraph 1 of this executive order, DLCD will ensure that the
           counties undertaking this work confer with DLCD about the intended
           scope and outcomes of the pilot project before they begin work and
           before they submit the rulemaking petition. The purpose of conferring
           is to ensure that the counties understand the agency's practical and
           policy concerns so that the petition is more likely to be successful.
           LCDC will initiate rulemaking under this executive order only if two or
           more of the counties formally agree to participate in the pilot project,
           which agreement must, at a minimum, include the county’s commitment
           to work with DLCD and other participants in the rulemaking to develop
           collaboratively the proposed rules for consideration by LCDC. This
           rulemaking is intended to be a collaborative process, between the state
           and the counties electing to participate in the pilot program.


     4.    The proposed rules developed for LCDC’s consideration will be
           designed so that lands that are functionally important to the types of
           farming and forest operations that occur, or that are likely to occur in
           the future, within the area that would be covered by the rules, are
           retained in farm or forest planning and zoning designations. In
           developing proposed criteria for rezoning for consideration by LCDC,
           DLCD will work with the county or counties in question, as well as
           local farming and forest interests. DLCD also will seek input from the
           Oregon Department of Agriculture, the Oregon Department of Forestry,
           and the Oregon Water Resources Department in developing the
           proposed criteria. To the extent possible, DLCD may provide funding
           to the other agencies involved in this effort using funds available under
           SB 5701 or other funds appropriated for that purpose by the legislature.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-07
   PAGE FOUR



     3.   The proposed rules developed for LCDC’s consideration will be
          designed to include provisions relating to lands that are rezoned to non-
          farm or non-forest uses (non-resource lands), that assure that such lands
          are planned and zoned for types of uses and at levels that: (a) will not
          significantly interfere with nearby farm or forest uses; (b) will not
          significantly interfere with the future urbanization of nearby cities; (c)
          are sustainable in terms of fiscal impacts to local and state government,
          including affected districts; and (d) are sustainable in terms of their
          effects on water supplies, transportation, water quality, fire protection,
          wildlife, and fish and wildlife habitat. The rules also must be consistent
          with existing legislative policy, including the policies expressed in ORS
           197.005 to .010, 215.243, 215.700, and ORS 527.630.


     6.   DLCD will work with other state agencies, and affected local
          governments and interests in developing proposed rules that reflect the
          considerations described in this paragraph to assure that newly allowed
          uses do not exceed the carrying capacity of the lands. To the extent
          possible, DLCD may provide funding to the other agencies involved in
          this effort using funds available under SB 5701 or other funds
          appropriated for that purpose by the legislature.


     fe   If LCDC adopts rules establishing the pilot project described in this
          executive order, DLCD may provide funding to the counties
          participating in the pilot to assist them in implementing the pilot
          program by amending their respective comprehensive plans and zoning
          designations and codes in a manner that complies with the new rules.


     8.   DLCD must review any comprehensive plan or zoning amendment
          adopted by a county under this pilot program, including any
          amendments adopted as post-acknowledgment plan amendments subject
          to review by the Land Use Board of Appeals. If DLCD determines that
          the amendments do not comply with applicable statutes or rules, it will
          notify LCDC and may file an appeal of the amendment.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-07
   PAGE FIVE



      9      DLCD will report to the Governor and the appropriate committees of
             the Oregon House of Representatives and Oregon Senate on or before
             January 1, 2014 on the status of this program.



   Done at Salem, Oregon, this (@_   day of May, 2012.




                                       ATTEST:




                                           Ketebeo—
                                       Kate Brown
                                       SECRETARY OF STATE
