Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-13


    DIRECTING STATE AGENCIES TO CONTINUE PLANNING AND
    RESPONSE ACTIVITIES. FOR THE SOLAR ECLIPSE, TO ENSURE A
    SAFE AND MEMORABLE EXPERIENCE FOR VISITORS TO AND
    RESIDENTS OF OREGON.


    On August 21, 2017, Oregon will be a part of the Path of Totality for a total solar
    eclipse. The eclipse passes across the entire State, from Lincoln Beach to
    Huntington. The rare and unique opportunity to view a total solar eclipse means a
    large influx of visitors to our State, as well as travelers from inside the State. For
    more than a year, my office and state agencies have worked with local governments
    to plan for the anticipated impacts to our State, especially our rural areas. The
    ongoing work by state agencies will allow their resources to assume a forward-
    leaning posture to prevent or eliminate situations that may cause threats to lives,
    property, or the environment, by planning for ways to mitigate issues that may
    prevent viewers of the eclipse from having a positive, safe, and memorable
    experience.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1.   All state agencies are directed to continue to coordinate with the Office of
             Emergency Management (OEM), which shall activate the State’s
             Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Coordination Center, and
             which shall coordinate the implementation of specific Emergency Support
             Function plans. OEM shall have access to and use of personnel and
             equipment of all state agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to,
             mitigate or recover from conditions caused by viewers of the eclipse.

       2.    OEM shall coordinate all essential protective measures by state agencies in
             support of areas within and adjacent to the eclipse’s Path of Totality to
             ensure a safe and enjoyable opportunity to view the eclipse for all. OEM
             shall work with neighboring states and federal partners where needed to
             ensure coordination, to include the utilization of interstate mutual aid as
             appropriate.


       3.    OEM shall work with state agencies now to determine what, if any, gaps in
             services exist at the state or local level, and how to mitigate those gaps
             including, if necessary, a temporary suspension of rules.


       4.    The Oregon Department of Transportation, Oregon State Police, Oregon
             Public Utility Commission, Oregon Department of Forestry, Oregon
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-13
    PAGE TWO


           Department of Energy, Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, Oregon
           Health Authority, and Oregon Military Department shall provide any
           assistance that is deemed necessary to assist leading up to, during, and
           immediately following this event and to provide all necessary support to
           statewide response, recovery, and mitigation efforts, All other state
           agencies shall be prepared to assist as requested by OEM.


      5.   This order shall expire after August 24, 2017, unless terminated sooner by
           the governor.



           Done at Salem, Oregon this X YS day of August, 2017.


                                                    KCut Se
                                                Kate Brown
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                Dennis Richardson
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
