Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-10


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    DOUGLAS COUNTY DUE TO LOW SNOWPACK, PRECIPITATION,
    AND STREAMFLOW, AND WARMING TEMPERATURES


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that the absence of snowpack, lack of
    precipitation, low streamflows, and warming temperatures are likely to cause
    natural and economic disaster conditions in Douglas County, resulting in a severe,
    continuing drought emergency in that county during 2018.


    Forecasted water conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is likely to
    have significant economic impacts on agriculture, livestock, vineyard, and other
    natural resources in Douglas County. Dry conditions will place agricultural and
    livestock investments at risk; affect irrigators, industrial and domestic users;
    increase the potential for early onset fire danger; and subject the regional economy
    to widespread and severe damage.


    Conditions are being monitored by the state’s natural resource and public safety
    agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and timely response to drought are vital to the safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of Douglas
    County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in
    Douglas County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    i.     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
           provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
            conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Douglas County.


    iP     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users
            in Douglas County as the Department and Commission determine is
           necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                           torias
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-10
    PAGE TWO


    III.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
           as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
           projected conditions in Douglas County.


    IV.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
           and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected
           political subdivisions and water users in Douglas County.


    V.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this         day of June, 2018.




                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  GOVERNOR


                                                  ATTEST:




                                              - aa am
                                                  Dennis Richardson
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                         Materials
