Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-03


   PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION OPPORTUNITIES FOR
   OREGON MINORITY-OWNED, WOMEN-OWNED AND EMERGING
   SMALL BUSINESSES


   Executive Order No. 08-16 ordered eleven state agencies to set aspirational targets
   and implement other initiatives for promoting diversity and equal opportunity for
   minority-owned and women-owned businesses.


   Minority-owned and women-owned businesses continue to be a dynamic and fast-
   growing sector of the Oregon economy. Oregon is committed to creating an
   environment that supports the ingenuity and industriousness of Oregon’s Minority
   Business Enterprise [MBE] and Women Business Enterprise [WBE]. Emerging
   Small Business [ESB] firms are also an important sector of the state’s economy.


   Aspirational targets and other initiatives can support Oregon’s efforts to improve
   entrepreneurial opportunities for certified business enterprises, prevent race and
   sex-based discrimination and ensure state funds are used to foster an inclusive
   business climate. Aspirational targets will reflect Oregon’s commitment to oppose
   all forms of discrimination and demonstrate Oregon’s intent to create an
   environment that supports economic growth in all sectors, including among them
   Oregon’s minority-owned and women-owned firms. It is also necessary to have
   accurate data on the participation of MBE, WBE and ESB firms to allow the state
   to track its progress and ensure that Oregon’s entrepreneurial opportunities are
   open to all.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       1.   On or before February 15, 2012 and thereafter on a yearly basis, the
            Director of Economic & Business Equity (also known as the Advocate for
            Minority, Women and Emerging Small Business established by ORS
            200.025) shall identify and circulate a list of industry clusters in which there
            are a sufficient number of MBEs/WBEs to warrant setting aspirational
            targets.


       2.   The following state agencies shall develop aspirational targets for
            MBE/WBE procurement of contracts valued $150,000 or less, before March
            31, 2012, which may be performed by MBEs/WBEs.


                  a.   Oregon Business Development Department
                  b.   Oregon Department of Administrative Services
                  c.   Oregon Department of Aviation
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO, 12-03
   PAGE TWO


                            Oregon Department of Consumer & Business




            FeO rey op gah
                         po mo
                            Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
                            Oregon Department of Human Services
                            Oregon Department of Corrections
                            Oregon Department of Public Safety Standards & Training
                            Oregon Department of Education
                            Oregon Department of Employment
                            Oregon Department of Energy
                            Oregon Department of Forestry
                          . Oregon Department of Housing
                                 Oregon Department of Revenue
                                 Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife
                                 Oregon Department of Transportation
                                 Oregon Health Authority
                                 Oregon Liquor Control Commission
                                 Oregon Parks & Recreation
                                 Oregon State Police
                                 Oregon Youth Authority


     3. On or before March 31, 2012, the agencies identified in paragraph 2 shall
        develop aspirational targets for soliciting MBEs/WBEs to submit bids for
        contracts valued less than $150,000 in identified industry clusters.

     4. Aspirational targets shall be set by agencies identified in paragraph 2 after
        considering the size, location and scope of work required for typical
        contracts. Agencies are encouraged to use the Oregon Department of
        Transportation’s target setting process as a model in establishing
        aspirational targets. Agencies shall reassess their aspirational targets on or
        before January 15, 2013, and annually thereafter.

     5. The existence of aspirational targets shall not result in any preferential
        treatment, advantage or disadvantage for any particular business in
        obtaining contracts with the State of Oregon, but will, instead, be an
        indication of the extent of business that the State can expect to conduct with
        MBEs/WBEs.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-03
   PAGE THREE


     6.   Agencies shall report MBE/WBE solicitations and MBE/WBE and ESB
          actual utilization to the Director of Economic & Business Equity (also
          known as the Advocate for Minority, Women and Emerging Small Business
          established by ORS 200.025) on a quarterly basis; beginning with the first
          quarter ending March 31, 2012. The report should be submitted no less
          than 15 days following the close of the quarter.


     7.   To further Oregon’s efforts to create an inclusive business climate, agencies
          identified in paragraph 2 shall ensure:


             a.   All contract procurement staff and management personnel with
                  contract procurement responsibilities are trained on the requirements
                  of DAS Statewide Policy 107-009-030, entitled “MWESB
                  Procurement,” and DAS Statewide Policy 125-09-020, entitled
                  “Oregon Procurement Information Network (ORPIN)”;
             b.   Collaborate with the Oregon Business Development Department’s
                  Office of Minority, Women & Emerging Small Business
                  [OMWESB] certification, as established by ORS 200.055, and
                  increase the number of certified firms;
             c.   Diligently record MBE/WBE and ESB certification status in
                  contract award information collected in ORPIN;
             d.   Diligently record the MBE/WBE and ESB certification status of all
                  businesses invited to submit a bid for a Small or Intermediate
                  Procurement under ORS 279B; and
             e.   Evaluate and consider modifying unnecessary restrictive definitions
                  in the procurement process to facilitate participation of all
                  businesses wishing to do business with the state, without regard to
                  gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, social class, or other affiliation.

     8.   Beginning on or before January 31, 2013, and continuing on an annual
          basis, the Director of Economic & Business Equity (also known as the
          Advocate for Minority, Women and Emerging Small Business established
          by ORS 200.025), the Chief Operating Officer, together with any
          appropriate Agency Director(s) shall present Certificates of Excellence to
          contract procurement staff and/or management personnel who have
          exhibited outstanding initiative in conducting outreach to MBEs/WBEs.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-03
   PAGE FOUR


     9.   Notwithstanding this Executive Order, agencies not named in this Executive
          Order must continue to comply with the requirements of ORS 200.035.
          Agencies outside the scope of this Executive Order, including but not
          limited to the Oregon State Lottery, Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries,
          and the Public Employees Retirement System, are encouraged to develop,
          implement and participate in the policies and processes outlined in this
          Executive Order, as appropriate and to the extent allowable by law.


     10. This Executive Order shall expire on January 31, 2018.


     11. This Executive Order hereby supersedes and replaces in total Executive
          Order No. 08-16 issued on August 6, 2008 by Governor Theodore R.
          Kulongoski.




                                         ne
          Done at Salem, Oregon, this \       day of February, 2012.




                                        ATTEST:




                                          altel
                                        Kate Brown
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE
