Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 04


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    BAKER AND WHEELER COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT, LOW SNOW
    PACK LEVELS, AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS


    At the request of Baker County (by Declaration 2015-01 dated March 18, 2015)
    and Wheeler County (by Resolution 2015-13 dated March 18, 2015), and based on
    the recommendations of the Drought Council and the Water Availability
    Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find that continuing
    dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and
    economic disaster conditions in Baker and Wheeler Counties.


    Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
   the drought is having significant economic impacts on agriculture, livestock, and
    natural resources in Baker and Wheeler Counties.


    The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops, agricultural and
   recreational investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
    surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
    greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
    agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
   Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons,
   the protection of property and the economic security of the citizens and businesses
    of Baker and Wheeler Counties. I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing
   drought emergency exists in Baker County and Wheeler County, and directing the
   following actions.


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

           I       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
   assist in agricultural recovery in Baker and Wheeler Counties.



           IL.     The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
   Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
   Baker and Wheeler Counties as they determine is necessary and appropriate in
   accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 04
   PAGE TWO



          Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Baker and Wheeler Counties.



          IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined necessary to
   assist affected political subdivisions and water users in Baker and Wheeler
   Counties.



          yy;    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.                    |
          Done at Salem, Oregon this 20 day of April, 2015.




                                                kl Jem—
                                                KATE BROWN
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
