Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-11


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN HARNEY AND
   MALHEUR COUNTIES DUE TO EXTREME FIRES


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that extreme fires have caused and immediately
   threaten to cause local adverse natural and economic disaster conditions in Harney
   and Malheur Counties. These conditions have resulted in evacuations of homes,
   road closures, power outages, as well as broad impacts to cattle, ranching
   operations, wildlife and habitat.

   Beginning on July gi, 2012 lightning strikes ignited two large fires: the Miller
   Homestead Fire in Harney County and the Long Draw Fire in Malheur County.
   With existing drought conditions, high temperatures, and erratic winds, these two
   fires grew quickly. Combined, the fires have burned over 750,000 acres in the two
   counties, making them among the largest fires in state history. Professional and
   volunteer firefighters and everyday citizens are to be commended for their fire
   defense efforts and success in limiting damages and protecting both life and
   property under extremely challenging conditions.

   The conditions resulting from these wildfires threaten significant economic loss to
   Harney and Malheur Counties, as well as to the counties’ agricultural, livestock,
   and natural resource land bases. Current conditions are being addressed by state
   agencies including the Department of Agriculture, Department of Fish and
   Wildlife, and Oregon Emergency Management.


   A timely response to this situation is vital to the well being and economic security
   of the citizens and businesses in the region. I am therefore declaring a state of
   emergency in Harney and Malheur Counties and directing the following activities:


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

       1,   The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
            provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate adverse
            conditions and affect agricultural recovery in Harney and Malheur
            Counties.
      2.    The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife is directed to coordinate and
            provide assistance in seeking federal resources available for rangeland
            species and habitat restoration and monitoring in Harney and Malheur
            Counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-11
   PAGE TWO


       3. The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
          as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
          projected conditions in Harney and Malheur Counties.
       4. All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
          and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
          affected political subdivisions in Harney and Malheur Counties.

    This emergency is declared only for Harney and Malheur Counties and expires
    on December 31, 2012.

          These findings were made verbally on July 16", 2012 at 3:30 p.m.




                                                        sofA. Kitzhaber, MD
                                                                       —




                                                           VERNOR


                                                        ATTEST:




                                                        Kate Brown
                                                        SECRETARY OF STATE
