Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 07

   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   SHERMAN COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS

   At the request of Sherman County (by Resolution 06-06-2015 dated June 17,
   2015), and based on the recommendations of the Drought Council and the Water
   Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the          |
   continuing dry conditions and lack of precipitation have caused natural and
   economic disaster conditions in Sherman County.



   Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
   the drought is having significant economic impacts on agricultural, livestock, and
   natural resources in Sherman County.



   The dry conditions present hardships for Sherman County communities; crops and
   agricultural and other economic interests are at risk; animals and plants that rely on
   Oregon’s surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the     |
   state is greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by       ,
   state agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water          |
   Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.                                |



   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
   and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Sherman
   County; I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing drought emergency
   exists in Sherman County, and directing the following actions.


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

          i       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
   assist in agricultural recovery in Sherman County.



          Il.     The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
   Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
   Sherman County as they determine is necessary and appropriate in accordance with
   ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 07
   PAGE TWO


          Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Sherman County.



          IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined necessary to
   assist affected political subdivisions and water users in Sherman County.



          Vv.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.

                                       a     gnh
          Done at Portland, Oregon this 2 day of June, 2015.




                                                     ket —
                                                   KATE BROWN
                                                   GOVERNOR


                                                          ATTEST:




                                                               eofoe.
                                                   Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE
