Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-07


   PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
   THREAT OF WILDFIRE


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
   situation. Much of the state is now in extreme fire danger and red flag warnings
   have been issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and thunderstorms. We have
   already experienced wildfires this season that resulted in evacuations and
   threatened hundreds of structures. Other parts of the country, including our
   neighboring states such as Washington and Idaho, continue to experience similar
   fires and weather. The extended forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and
   dry conditions across the State, resulting in imminent threat of fire over a broad
   area of the State.


   The Oregon Department of Forestry Incident Management Teams, along with
   National Interagency Teams are currently deployed in Oregon. Regional compacts
   are also being utilized for the deployment of specific wildland fire resources to
   Oregon. New and existing fire threats elevate the need for immediate access to
   Oregon National Guard resources including firefighting helicopters. This threat is
   not likely to recede in the near future. It is critically important that National Guard
   resources be positioned to expedite resource requests and respond effectively to
   these dangerous and dynamic conditions.


   Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
   State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.


   IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   1.   The Oregon Military Department through its Office of Emergency Management
        and the Oregon Department of Forestry is authorized to coordinate the use of
        personnel and equipment to perform any activity designed to prevent or
        mitigate loss of life or property due to wildfires in Oregon with National Guard
        resources. The National Guard will deploy and redeploy firefighting assets as
        needed throughout the remainder of the fire season based upon threat and
        resource shortfalls.


   2.   This determination of a fire emergency is statewide. It is not to be construed as
        a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes.
        It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire management
        required by the emergency. Any local government requests for state resources
        must be submitted through county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency
        Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-07
   PAGE TWO


   3.   This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
        fire season ends.


   4.   This order was made by verbal proclamation at 2:40 pm on the 16" day of July,
        2014.




           Done at Portland, Oregon, this 5" day of August, 2014.




                                                   ATTEST;:




                                                   Kate Brown
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE
