Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12 - 15


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN THE
   LOST RIVER BASIN DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS.


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165 and 536.740, I find that ongoing drought and low water
   conditions and weather patterns exist and threaten to cause local adverse natural
   and economic disaster conditions in the portion of the Lost River Basin within the
   State of Oregon. The Lost River Basin is a portion of the Klamath River Basin,
   and is located in Klamath and Lake counties in Oregon. I find that a need exists for
   statewide coordination of water resource conservation measures by municipal and
   other political subdivisions of this state in order to minimize problems caused by
   this severe shortage of water. Projected weather patterns are not expected to
   alleviate these conditions significantly, and drought conditions are continuing.
   These conditions are expected to have significant economic impact on the affected
   basin’s agricultural, livestock, and natural resources.


   Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
   of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency
   Management.


   A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic
   security of the citizens and businesses of Klamath County and Lake County, I am
   therefore declaring a “‘state of drought emergency” in the Lost River Basin within
   the State of Oregon and directing the following activities;


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


            ib     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate agricultural
   conditions resulting from drought and affecting agricultural recovery in the affected
   basin.


            IL     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance and regulation for the affected basin as it determines is necessary
   in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


            Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in the affected basin.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12 - 15
   PAGE TWO



          IV.   _ All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in the affected basin.


          V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2012.


          Done at Salem, Oregon, this AF day of August, 2012.




                                                  ATTESI:




                                                  Kate      Brown
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
