Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-09

                         PROMOTING FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
                BY RECOVERING MONIES OWED TO THE STATE

    WHEREAS, Oregonians deserve a fiscally responsible state government that
    maximizes the value of taxpayer dollars it receives; and

    WHEREAS, one way of operating government efficiently and maximizing value
    received from taxpayer dollars is by recovering monies owed to the State; and

    WHEREAS, Oregon is currently owed, and, despite collection efforts, has not
    recovered, significant sums of money that could be used for delivering services to
    the public; and


    WHEREAS, analyses by the Secretary of State in 2015 and the Legislative Fiscal
    Office in 2016 calculated that more than $600 million of debt owed to the State is
    tied to the State’s General Fund; and

    WHEREAS, given Oregon’s current budget deficit of approximately $1.6 billion, it
    is important that state government improve collection of monies owed to the State;

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

    If     Definitions. For purposes of this Executive Order:

           A.         “State agency” shall be defined as any agency within the Executive
                      Department as defined in ORS 174.112, other than the Oregon
                      Secretary of State, Oregon State Treasury, Oregon Department of
                      Justice, and Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries.

           B.         “Liquidated Debt” shall have the meaning given the term in the
                      Oregon Accounting Manual number 35.30.30.

           C.         “Delinquent Debt” is a receivable for which payment has not been
                      received by the due date.

    II.    Reporting of Liquidated and Delinquent Debt. State agencies shall
           immediately determine the amounts of Liquidated and Delinquent Debts on
           their books for the most recent fiscal year, and shall issue a report of such
           amounts to the Department of Administrative Services (“DAS”) Chief
           Operating Officer by June 30, 2017. The report shall include:




                                                                                           ceontnn
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-09
    PAGE TWO



           A.      The total amount of Liquidated and Delinquent Debt on their books
                   for the most recent fiscal year;

           B.      Of the amount reflected in Section II(A), what amount they believe
                   is recoverable with reasonable effort and using collection tools
                   available to the State; and

           GC:     How their debt collection processes meet or, by December 31, 2017,
                  will meet, the collection guidelines stated in the Oregon Accounting
                   Manual; and, further, how their debt collection process would be
                   influenced by the passage of Senate Bill 89. Agency processes
                  reflected in Section II(C) should include plans for prompt referrals
                  to the Department of Revenue, Other Agency Accounts unit, no later
                  than 60 days after the debt is declared Liquidated and Delinquent, or
                  as allowed by the Oregon Accounting Manual.

    Ill.   Quarterly Tracking. DAS, in partnership with all state agencies, shall
           develop a quarterly reporting measurement that tracks debt collection
           activities. The Governor will set a debt collection benchmark to measure
           performance of state agencies by January 1, 2017.

    IV.    Procurement, State agencies shall modify their procurement and
           contracting practices to facilitate debt collection, to the extent permitted by
           law, including the following:


           A.     The Chief Procurement Officer shall facilitate the State’s recovery
                  of Liquidated and Delinquent Debt as follows:

                   Ife    The Chief Procurement Officer shall revise public contract
                          templates to include a model provision that, if included in a
                          procurement contract and to the extent not prohibited by law,
                          would allow state agencies to recoup Liquidated and
                          Delinquent Debt owed by vendors to any state agency by
                          means of reducing state agencies’ payments to such vendors.

                  2       The Chief Procurement Officer shall revise procurement
                          instructions to enable state agencies to consider, where
                          appropriate, Liquidated and Delinquent Debt owed to the
                          State when evaluating vendors on state price agreements,
                          when issuing purchase orders or similar ordering documents,
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-09
    PAGE THREE



                 or when entering into new contracts with vendors when the contract
                 value exceeds $150,000, to the extent not prohibited by law.

          B.     State agencies shall consider Liquidated and Delinquent Debt owed
                 to the State when evaluating vendors on state price agreements,
                 when issuing purchase orders or similar ordering documents, or
                 when entering into new contracts with vendors, to the extent not
                 prohibited by law.

          Coordination of Payments and Collection Efforts. Subject to policies
          established by DAS, state agencies shall make efforts to recover Liquidated
          and Delinquent Debt from entities to which state agencies are remitting
          significant payments. DAS is directed to develop policies requiring:

          A,     State agencies to recoup Liquidated and Delinquent Debt owed by
                 vendors by means of reducing state agencies’ payments to such
                 vendors, where permitted by the contract or contracts imposing the
                 payment obligation or other law.

          B.     State agencies to take other measures in furtherance of recoupment
                 of Liquidated and Delinquent Debt, where recoupment by offsetting
                 payments is not permitted by the contract or contracts imposing the
                 payment obligation or other law.

    VI.   Publicize Debtors. The Department of Revenue shall assess the feasibility
          of creating a website listing entities and individuals that owe the State
          Liquidated and Delinquent Debt, and shall report such feasibility to the
          DAS Chief Operating Officer by December 31, 2017. The assessment shall
          include, if appropriate, standards for adding and removing entities and
          individuals from the list, including removing entities and individuals that
          have entered into and are performing an agreement with the State to pay
          their Liquidated and Delinquent Debt in installments.

    VI.   Electronic garnishments, The Department of Revenue shall make efforts to
          recover Liquidated and Delinquent Debt by issuing garnishments using
          electronic means, to the extent permitted by law. The Department of
          Revenue shall report to the DAS Chief Operating Officer on the results of
          these efforts by September 1, 2017.




                                                                                        He
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-09
        PAGE FOUR




        VIII.   The provisions of this Executive Order are subject to all applicable state and
                federal laws and controlling contract provisions.
        IX. | Governor Kate Brown encourages the Secretary of State, the State
              Treasurer, the Attorney General, and the Commissioner of the Bureau of
              Labor and Industries, as well as the Legislative Assembly and the Judicial
              Department, to adopt policies and practices to recover Liquidated and
              Delinquent Debt consistent with the measures adopted by this Executive
              Order. DAS and the Department of Revenue are directed to assist the
              above-mentioned officials and entities of state government in
                accomplishing these objectives as they may request.

|       X.      Except as otherwise provided herein, this Executive Order will remain in
                effect until June 30, 2019, unless superseded by a subsequent Executive
                Order or source of law.

                Done this 5" day of May, 2017, at Salem, Oregon.




                                                 Ka: Digi
                                              Kate Brown
                                              GOVERNOR

                                               ATTEST:




                                               Dennis Richardson
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
