Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-14

  PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
  THREAT OF WILDFIRE


  Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
  situation. Much of the state is now in extreme fire danger and red flag warnings are
  predicted to be issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and thunderstorms. Other parts
  of the country continue to experience large-complex fires and similar fire weather.
  The extended forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and dry conditions with
  predictions of widespread lightning over many parts of the State. The imminent
  threat of wildfire exists over a broad area of the State including forests in the
  Cascades and eastern and southern Oregon. In fact, six significant fires are actively
  burning over 130,000 acres at this time. These fires are in remote and difficult
  terrain and are threatening structures, public and private timberland and rangeland,
  pipeline infrastructure, reservoirs, and electrical power infrastructure. Currently, over
  2,900 firefighters are engaged on wildfires state-wide. To date, fire season 2012 has
  accounted for over 1 million acres of state and private lands burned in Oregon.


  With the firefighting resources of the nation fully committed, unfilled orders for
  large helicopters and other firefighting resources on Oregon fires, and the threat of
  more new ignitions in the immediate future, there is a need for immediate access to
  Oregon National Guard resources, specifically firefighting helicopters. In the near
  future, Oregon National Guard resources including air ambulance services and
  firefighting crews may also be requested. This threat is not likely to recede in the
  near future. It is critically important that National Guard resources can be positioned
  to respond adequately and effectively to this dangerous and dynamic situation.


  Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
  State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.



  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


      1.   The Oregon Military Department through its Office of Emergency
           Management and the Oregon Department of Forestry is authorized to
           coordinate the use of personnel and equipment of the State for wildland
           firefighting in Oregon with National Guard resources.


     2.    This determination of a fire emergency is statewide. It is not to be construed
           as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other
           purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for wildland
           firefighting. Any local government requests for state resources must be
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO, 12-14
  PAGE TWO

       submitted through county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency
       Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 4.

    3. This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
       fire season ends.

    4. This order was made by verbal proclamation by the Governor at 5:50 p.m. on
       the 16" day of August, 2012.

        Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2°      day of August, 2012.




                                               ATTEST:




                                                Kate Brown
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
