Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-08


    DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR MARION AND POLK
    COUNTIES DUE TO HAZARDOUS ALGAE BLOOMS


    ORS 401.165 et seg. empowers the Governor to declare a state of emergency upon
    determining that an emergency has occurred or is imminent. Pursuant to that
    authority, I find that toxic algae blooms impacting Detroit Reservoir—the source of
    drinking water for the City of Salem, City of Turner, and several other water
    districts and associations—have created a threat to public safety. Low levels of
    cylindrospermopsin and microcystin (cyanotoxins) have been found in treated
    drinking water, creating a risk to segments of the population served by the City of
    Salem water system, including children under the age of six, pregnant women and
    nursing mothers, pets, and people with compromised immune systems, pre-existing
    liver conditions, or receiving dialysis treatment.


    Pursuant to ORS 401.965, I find that this threat has created an abnormal disruption
    of the market, specifically related to the availability of bottled water in the
    impacted areas of Marion and Polk Counties beginning at 12:00 p.m. on May 29,
    2018. Given this abnormal disruption of the market, a merchant or wholesaler may
    not sell or offer to sell essential consumer goods or services for an amount that
    represents an unconscionably excessive price during the time in which this
    declaration remains in effect.


    State agencies are supporting city and county efforts to relieve this situation         |
    through water testing, public outreach, technical assistance, and coordination of any
    state resources that may be requested.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    Ale    Having found an emergency exists due to the ongoing threat posed by the
           hazardous algae bloom in Detroit Reservoir, I hereby declare a state of
           emergency for Marion and Polk Counties.


    2      All state agencies, including the Oregon Military Department, Oregon
           Health Authority, Oregon Department of Agriculture, and Oregon
           Department of Environmental Quality, will utilize and employ state
           personnel, equipment, and facilities for any and all activities as requested     |
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-08
    PAGE TWO


         and coordinated by the Oregon Office of Emergency Management. All
         citizens are to heed the requests, orders, and advice of emergency officials
         in order to protect their health and safety.


    3.   Persons who believe that they have been subjected to unconscionably
         excessive prices for bottled water or other essential consumer goods due to
         this disruption should report that conduct to the Oregon Department of         |
         Justice Consumer Protection Division, which has the authority to               |
         investigate unlawful trade practices.                                          |

                                                                                        |
    4.   This order shall remain in effect for thirty days unless extended or
                                                                                        |
         terminated sooner.


    5.   This order was made by verbal proclamation at 9:41 a.m. on May 31, 2018.

         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 3| day of ru AW 2018.
                                       qyot




                                                 ket Lhoan—
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR
                                                                                        |




                                                 ATTEST:




                                              price tha Borns
                                                 Dennis Richardson
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
