Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-06


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   BAKER, GILLIAM, AND MALHEUR COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT
   AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that ongoing drought and low water conditions and
   ‘weather patterns have caused local adverse natural and economic disaster
   conditions in the affected area of the above mentioned counties. Projected climatic
   patterns are not expected to significantly alleviate these conditions and drought
   conditions will continue. These conditions are expected to have significant
   economic impact on the affected counties’ agricultural, livestock, and natural
   resources,



   Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
   of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Office of
   Emergency Management.


   A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic
   security of the citizens and businesses of the affected counties, I am therefore
   declaring a “state of drought emergency” in Baker, Gillian, and Malheur Counties
   and directing the following activities;


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


          I,      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
   effect agricultural recovery in the affected counties.


          ile     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance and regulation for the affected counties as it determines is
   necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


          IIL.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in the affected counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13 - 06
   PAGE TWO


           IV.    All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in the affected counties.


           V.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2013.


          Done at Salem, Oregon this 2 3 day of June, 2013.




                                                  ATTEST:




                                                    het beour!
                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
