Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-28


    DIRECTING STATE AGENCIES TO PROTECT OREGON’S COASTAL
    ECONOMY BY PREVENTING ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATED WITH
    OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS DRILLING


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Coast is a special place for all Oregonians, in part because
    all 363 miles of the state’s coastline have been publicly accessible for more than a
    century; and


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Coast is of tremendous economic and recreational
    significance to our state, supporting approximately 22,000 jobs in its $2 billion
    coastal tourism and recreational industry, and more than 5,500 jobs in its $320
    million commercial and recreational marine fishery; and


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Coast provides an essential ecological zone for diverse
    species of plants and animals, many of which have adapted to its unique marine
    ecosystems; and


    WHEREAS, the land, waters, and resources of the Oregon Coast have cultural
    significance to sovereign, federally recognized Native American Tribes; and


    WHEREAS, offshore oil and gas drilling directly threatens coastal economies,
    marine fisheries, the environment, public health and safety, and cultural resources;
    and


    WHEREAS, in 2010 the Oregon Legislature passed House Bill 3613, which
    prohibits oil and gas leasing in Oregon’s Territorial Sea—extending three miles from
    Oregon’s coastline—until 2020, but does not block offshore drilling farther out in
    the federal waters on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS); and


    WHEREAS, President Trump signed an Executive Order in April 2017 that
    encourages offshore oil and gas exploration and production in federal waters on the
    OCS, including federal waters off the Oregon Coast; and


    WHEREAS, Oregon sought an exemption from the Trump Administration’s
    proposal for offshore drilling—similar to the exemption Florida received—but, to
    date, has not received such an exemption; and


    WHEREAS, nearshore and onshore facilities, pipelines, and infrastructure—built on
    a state’s coast, tidelands, and submerged lands—are essential to oil and gas
    exploration and production in federal waters on the OCS; and




                                                                                           stains


                                                                                           torial.
Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-28
    PAGE TWO



    WHEREAS, offshore drilling and onshore infrastructure projects on the Oregon
    Coast cannot proceed under state and federal law without review and permitting by
    several state agencies, including but not limited to:


         e   Authorization of pipelines and other infrastructure on submerged and
             submersible lands by the Oregon Department of State Lands, ORS 274.705 et
             seq., and permitting of such infrastructure on the ocean shore by the Oregon
             Parks and Recreation Department, ORS 390.605 ef seq., all of which must be
             consistent with existing laws that protect the Oregon Coast;   —


         e   Federal consistency review of OCS projects by the Oregon Coastal
             Management Program under the federal Coastal Zone Management Act, 16
             U.S.C. § 1456, which ensures those activities are consistent with existing
             enforceable coastal management policies, including Statewide Planning Goal
             19 (which provides that all actions affecting the ocean must “conserve
             marine resources and ecological functions’’);


         e   Water quality certification by the Oregon Department of Environmental
             Quality under Section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1341,
             which ensures compliance with water quality standards; and


    WHEREAS, several provisions in state and federal law authorize state agencies to
    object to federal leasing on the OCS, and to deny or condition required permits and
    certifications for offshore drilling and onshore infrastructure, when necessary to
    protect public health, public safety, the environment, and coastal resources and
    economies;


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    L.       Definition. For purposes of this Executive Order, “state agency” is defined
             as any agency within the Executive Department as defined in ORS 174.112,
             other than the Oregon Secretary of State, Oregon State Treasury, Oregon
             Department of Justice, and Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries.


    2.       Statement of Policy. It is the policy of the State of Oregon to oppose the
             exploration and production of oil or gas off the Oregon Coast, including on
             the OCS, and to prevent the development of any infrastructure associated
             with offshore oil or gas drilling, in order to protect coastal economies, marine
             fisheries, the environment, public health and safety, and cultural resources.




                                                                                                tains


                                                                                                roriats
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-28
    PAGE THREE



    3.   Directive. From the date of this Executive Order, all state agencies must
         exercise any and all authority and discretion vested in them by law, in a
         manner consistent with the policy set forth in paragraph 2.


    4.   This Executive Order is intended to be consistent with the State’s powers and
         obligations under federal and state law; accordingly, this Executive Order
         shall be interpreted as to not violate any requirement of federal or state law.
         Should federal or state law change so as to give rise to a conflict with any
         provision of this Executive Order, such provision shall be of no further
         effect, notwithstanding paragraph 5.


    5.   This Executive Order will remain in effect unless and until it is superseded
         by statute or another Executive Order.
                                        4h
         Done at Salem, Oregon, thisel day of October, 2018.



                                                   het Lton—
                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  GOVERNOR




                                                  ATTEST.:




                                                               A



                                                  Dennis Richardson
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                           Materials
