Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 11


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LINN
   COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT, LOW SNOW PACK LEVELS, AND LOW
   WATER CONDITIONS


   At the request of Linn County (by Resolution & Order No. 2015-308 dated August
    19, 2015) and based on the recommendations of the Drought Council and the Water
   Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the
   continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused a
   severe, continuing drought to exist in Linn County, which have led to natural and
   economic disaster conditions in Linn County.


   Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
   the drought is having significant economic impacts on agricultural and natural
   resources in Linn County.


   The dry conditions present hardships for Linn County communities: agricultural
   investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s surface water
   supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is greatly
   increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state agencies
   including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and
   the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
   and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Linn County;
   I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Linn
   County, and directing the following actions.


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:



          I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
   assist in agricultural recovery in Linn County.


          IL.     The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
   Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
   Linn County as they determine is necessary and appropriate in accordance with
   ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 11
   PAGE TWO



          Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Linn County.


          IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined necessary to
   assist affected political subdivisions and water users in Linn County.


          Vv:     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.

          Done at Salem, Oregon this > a dag of August, 2015.



                                                    hea baw —
                                                KATE BROWN
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                Jenne P. Atkins
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
