Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO 16-12


   ENHANCING GUN SAFETY IN OREGON


   In the past 17 months, more than 600 Oregonians have died from gun violence—
   more than 100 of those deaths were homicides.


   This, coupled with several devastating episodes of gun violence in other states,
   calls for immediate action to protect Oregonians and our communities from gun
   violence.


   Ensuring that existing Oregon laws are enforced to their fullest extent increases the
   likelihood that illegal firearm deals will be detected and guns kept out of the hands
   of people legally prohibited from having them (“prohibited persons”). Giving the
   Oregon State Police and other local authorities the tools to track and analyze gun
   transactions is an important step in that direction.


   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   Ie     Oregon Revised Statutes 166.412(7) and 166.436(5) make it clear that
   Oregon State Police (OSP) has authority to retain firearms transactions data for five
   years, although it currently does not retain the data for that long. I hereby direct
   OSP to update its software and backup programs and to begin retaining data for as       |
   long as the department is statutorily authorized to so do.


          a.   The department shall use data available from the federal E-Trace
               program, as well as the department’s rolling five year data, to trace all
               firearms used in the commission of a crime that come into its
               possession: (1) as collected evidence; or (2) as submitted to the
               department by another agency for forensic examination.


          b.   The department shall examine data obtained in paragraph |(a), above,
               to determine if purchase patterns exist thus allowing for appropriate
               investigations to be initiated.


   2s      Oregon Revised Statutes 166.412(7)(c) provides that OSP can report to
   local law enforcement agencies when a prohibited person attempts to obtain a
   firearm and the transaction is denied. When that occurs, either the department or a
   local agency conducts an investigation into the attempted unlawful acquisition.
   The department generates a report tracking all denials and the dispositions of any
   new criminal cases initiated after such an investigation is completed. I am
   directing the department to continue its current investigation and reporting
   practices. In addition, regardless of whether the department or another agency
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 16-12
   PAGE TWO



   investigates the new potentially criminal activity, I am directing the department to
   share the report of the attempted acquisition with relevant local authorities in the
   following circumstances:


          a.   When the prohibited person is on probation, notification shall be made
               to the supervising judge, the supervising community corrections
               department, and the District Attorney’s Office.


          b.    When the prohibited person is on parole or post-prison supervision,
               notification shall be made to the community corrections department or
               the Board of Parole and Post-prison Supervision.


          c.   When the prohibited person is subject to a court-issued release
               agreement or protective order, notification shall be made to the issuing
               judge and the District Attorney’s Office.


          d.    When the prohibited person is subject to supervision by the Psychiatric
               Security Review Board (PSRB) or Juvenile PSRB, and a firearms
               prohibition has resulted from that supervision, notification shall be
               made to the supervising Board.


    3.    In order to develop future policies that will enhance firearm safety in
    Oregon:


          a.   I direct the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) to determine whether it
               receives the appropriate data to properly and thoroughly study the
               effects of gun violence and suicide in Oregon. If there is additional data
               that would further inform the agency, it shall work with my office to
               determine whether executive action or statutory amendment is necessary
               to obtain the data. OHA shall share any data it has available with an
               institution of higher learning or other entity engaged by the state to
               study firearms related deaths or crimes. Finally, OHA will report
               annually on gun violence and its effect on public health and, when
               warranted, recommend policies to reduce gun violence in Oregon.


          b.   Iam creating a new work group to review and assess gun-related
               domestic violence offenses in two ways:
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 16-12
    PAGE THREE



                          In counties that have established gun relinquishment
                         protocols in domestic violence cases, review the outcomes
                         and make recommendations as to whether a statewide policy
                         would enhance the safety of domestic violence survivors and
                         Oregonians generally; and


                  ii.     Ensure that when an individual is subject to a court order in
                         a domestic violence case that prohibits the individual from
                         possessing a firearm, the prohibition is timely transmitted to
                         the systems utilized for criminal history records checks when
                         a concealed handgun license is sought or a firearms
                         transaction is attempted. The work group will make
                         recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the system
                         and close any gaps that are identified.


   4,     This Executive Order will remain in effect unless and until it is superseded
   by statute or another Executive Order.



          Done at Salem, Oregon, this 1S day of July, 2016.


                                                   Kee pom
                                                         —
                                                Kate Brown
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ALTEST:




                                                LF Loge
                                                Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
