Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 19


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   MARION COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT, LOW SNOW PACK LEVELS,
   AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS


   At the request of Marion County (by Resolution No.15R-46, dated September 3,
   2015) and based on the recommendations of the Drought Council and the Water
   Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the
   continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused a
   severe, continuing drought to exist in Marion County, which have led to natural and
   economic disaster conditions in Marion County.


   Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
   the drought is having significant economic impacts on agricultural and natural
   resources in Marion County.


   The dry conditions present hardships for communities: recreational investments are
   impacted; agricultural investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on
   Oregon’s surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the
   state is greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by
   state agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
   Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
   and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Marion
   County; I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing drought emergency
   exists in Marion County, and directing the following actions.


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

          I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
   assist in agricultural recovery in Marion County.



          IL.     The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
   Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
   Marion County as they determine is necessary and appropriate in accordance with
   ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15-19
   PAGE TWO


            Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
  . projected conditions in Marion County.

           IV.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined necessary to
   assist affected political subdivisions and water users in Marion County.

           Vs     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.


           Done at Salem, Oregon this (teMay of September.




                                                Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                               Devaltbe...
                                                 Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
