Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-13


    RECOVERY PLANNING ASSISTANCE FOR THE CITY OF AUMSVILLE
    AND MARION COUNTY DUE TO A TORNADO


    This week, severe weather, including the occurrence of a tornado, extremely high
    winds and heavy rain created a threat to life, safety and property in the City of
    Aumsville and surrounding area of Marion County. On December 14, 2010, a
    short-lived yet unusually severe storm caused high winds that resulted in power
    outages, significant property and infrastructure damage, and debris in the area
    surrounding the City of Aumsville. Because of these circumstances and property
    and infrastructure damage to areas of Marion County, there is a need for a
    coordinated recovery effort.


    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


             1.    The Oregon Military Department’s Office of Emergency
    Management (OEM) shall continue to implement the State’s Emergency
    Operations Plan, and coordinate with the appropriate state and local agencies
    impacted by this severe weather event.


           2.     The Oregon National Guard shall provide the necessary manpower
    and equipment required to respond to requests from Marion County received by the
    OEM to facilitate response and recovery efforts to and from this severe weather
    event.


             3.    The Oregon State Police shall provide the necessary manpower and
    equipment required to respond to requests from Marion County received by the
    OEM, or otherwise by mutual aid agreement, to facilitate response and recovery
    efforts to and from this severe weather event.

             4.    The Oregon Department of Transportation shall provide the
    necessary manpower and equipment required to respond to requests from Marion
    County received by the OEM, or otherwise in place by mutual aid agreement, to
    facilitate response and recovery efforts to and from this severe weather event.

           5.      Oregon Public Utility Commission shall provide the necessary
    manpower and equipment required to respond to requests from Marion County
    received by the OEM, or otherwise in place by mutual aid agreement, to facilitate
    response and recovery efforts to and from this severe weather event.


             6.    The Oregon Military Department, after consultation with
    appropriate Marion County and City of Aumsville officials, shall assess the




                                                                                        ne
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER
    PAGE TWO


    overall property damages resulting from this severe weather event, as well as the        |
    ability of Marion County and the City of Aumsville to implement a recovery plan          |
    in response to the situation.


           7.      The Oregon Military Department shall report its findings and make
    a recommendation to me by December 30, 2010 as to whether to activate the
    Recovery Planning Cell pursuant to Executive Order No. 08-20.


           -       Done at Salem, Oregon, this 16th day of December, 2010.




                                             VE Nt
                                                 Theodore R. Kulongoski
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                 ATTEST:




                                                  Vo
                                                 Kate ‘Brown               Vv
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                        ie
