Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20


    ACCELERATING EFFICIENCY IN OREGON’S BUILT ENVIRONMENT
    TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND ADDRESS
    CLIMATE CHANGE


    WHEREAS, climate change presents a significant threat to our livelihoods,
    economic security, environment, health, and well-being.


    WHEREAS, there has been an increase in extreme weather events, including more
    frequent and intense heat waves and wildfires. According to the Oregon Climate
    Change Research Institute and other regional studies, the best available science
    indicates Oregon is at risk of serious impacts to its natural resources due to climate
    change.
        e     Water resources are being affected by decreased winter snowpack, changes
            to seasonal runoff patterns, decreased precipitation in Eastern Oregon, and
              increased intensity and occurrence of flooding.
        e   Agricultural resources are being affected by increases in temperatures.
        e     Ocean acidification is increasing and there are changes in ocean currents.
        e     Significant parts of the Oregon coastal region, stretching 363 miles, will be
              impacted by an expected rise in sea level up to 1 to 4 feet by 2100, incurring
            billions of dollars of damages and losses to roadways and structures.
        e   Climate change impacts threaten the State’s agricultural, fishing, timber,
            recreation, and tourism industries, thereby threatening the livelihood of the
            State’s residents and an important source of Gross State Product for the
            state,


    WHEREAS, energy efficiency leads to significant greenhouse gas reductions that
    are essential to meeting our state greenhouse gas reduction goals and addressing
    climate change.


    WHEREAS, Oregon is committed to meeting the international Paris Agreement
    targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels
    by 2025,

    WHEREAS, Oregon has adopted goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 10
    percent below 1990 levels by 2020 and at least 75 percent below 1990 levels by
    2050 as described in ORS 468A.20.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20
    PAGE 2
                                                                                            |


    WHEREAS, saving energy by using less energy in buildings is one of the least cost
    ways to achieve emissions reductions in the energy system — often with a net            |
    financial savings over the life of these energy efficiency measures, in particular as   |
    energy efficiency technology continues to improve.


    WHEREAS, studies have found that building codes in Oregon have had a 97
    percent compliance rate; and as building codes become more energy efficient, we
    will continue to strive toward excellence in construction and building codes, which
    are applicable statewide and provide uniformity and predictability for building
    owners and contractors and equity for residents and businesses.


    WHEREAS, Oregon is an international leader in energy efficiency, has in-state
    energy efficiency expertise, and a skilled workforce to continue to be a leader; and
    Oregon can build on its reputation through emphasis on state leadership, building
    codes for newly constructed buildings, and retrofits for existing buildings.


    WHEREAS, energy efficiency is a critical and growing portion of the State’s clean
    energy economy. Investments in energy efficiency sustain a workforce of over
    40,000 jobs statewide; 70 percent of these are small businesses with 11 employees       |
    or fewer. Investments in energy efficiency result in an average annual increase of
    gross state product of over $132 million, and the resulting reduction in energy costs
    generates an additional $32 million per year.


    WHEREAS, low income and other underserved communities often struggle to
    access energy efficiency programs that will save them money and improve housing
    quality over the long-term and the State can take steps to implement policies that
    increase the availability of energy efficiency to these residents.


    WHEREAS, state government has a responsibility to lead by example in its
    adoption of energy efficiency to achieve a more cost-effective and clean energy
    future.


    WHEREAS, energy efficiency actions increase the health, safety, and resiliency of
    Oregon’s buildings and homes, resulting in lower health care costs borne by the
    State and its residents.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20
    PAGE 3


    WHEREAS, an energy system with distributed generation, energy efficiency, and
    storage capacity can build resiliency in the face of climate change related
    disruptions and other disasters.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1. Definition. For purposes of this Executive Order, “state agency” shall be
            defined as any agency within the Executive Department as defined in ORS
            174.112, other than the Oregon Secretary of State, Oregon State Treasury,
            Oregon Department of Justice, and Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries.

       2. Statement of Policy. It is the policy of the State of Oregon to establish an         |
            aggressive timeline to achieve net zero energy ready buildings as a standard
            practice in buildings across the state. Review and regular improvements to
            the energy provisions of the state building code will occur on at least a
            three-year cycle for residential and commercial buildings. Directives in this
            Executive Order related to energy efficiency, electric vehicle readiness, and      |
            solar installation readiness are essential to meeting this policy, as is a focus   |
            on retrofitting older, less-efficient buildings and demonstrating energy
            efficiency leadership in state-owned and state-leased buildings.


       3.   Energy Efficiency Leadership in State Buildings


            A. High Performance Energy Targets for Existing State Buildings. State
               agencies will use high performance energy use targets for remodels in
               all existing state-owned buildings. Department of Administrative
               Services (DAS) and Oregon Department of Energy (ODOE) are directed
               to consider ASHRAE 100 Standard pathways and work with all state
               agencies to adopt targets for any remodels that begin after the date of
               this executive order. State agencies that are not meeting energy use
               targets will work with ODOE and DAS to undertake energy retrofits to
               increase the efficiency of their buildings. ODOE is directed to report on
               and track all state-owned building energy use to guide agencies to
               implement tactical and achievable energy use reductions. ODOE will
               work with all agencies to benchmark and identify buildings for retrofits.
               A database of all eligible state-owned buildings will be created by June
                1, 2018.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20
    PAGE 4


         B, Carbon-Neutral Operations for New State Buildings. DAS and ODOE
            are directed to work with state agencies to ensure that new state owned
            buildings permitted after January 1, 2022 and used primarily for office
            and other commercial work space are designed to be able to operate as
            carbon-neutral buildings defined with full fuel-cycle considerations that
            are inclusive of, but not limited to, off-site renewable energy and other
            provisions of ASHRAE standard 189.1. In addition, DAS and ODOE
            are directed to analyze feasible options with the Department of
            Environmental Quality that would lower the embodied carbon of
             building materials in new construction of state buildings.


         C. Statewide Plug-Load Strategy. DAS and ODOE are directed to develop
             a statewide plug-load management strategy and strategies for other
             occupant behavior changes to reduce energy uses not regulated by codes
             and standards. DAS and ODOE will develop a plug load strategy by
             January 1, 2019, and DAS will update policies for behavior-based
             efficiency by January 1, 2020.


         D. Energy Efficient Equipment. DAS, with support from ODOE, is
             directed to ensure that all equipment purchased by the state meets high-
             efficiency energy and water use specifications by incorporating
             efficiency standards into procurement requirements. DAS and ODOE
             will develop procurement requirements in the 2018-19 fiscal year.


         E. Lifecycle Cost Analysis. ODOE is directed to analyze state building
             costs, including lifecycle energy and water use costs or savings, when
             considering energy and water upgrades for state buildings. By January
             1, 2019, ODOE, working with DAS, will develop analysis tools that can
             inform the high performance energy use targets and carbon neutral
             requirements for state buildings referenced above.


      4. Increasing Energy and Water Efficiency in New Construction Across
         the State


         A. Solar Ready Building Construction. The appropriate advisory board(s)
             and the Department of Business and Consumer Services Building Codes
             Division (BCD) are directed to conduct code amendment of the state
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO, 17-20
    PAGE 5


             building code to require all newly constructed buildings will be ready
             for the installation of solar panels and related technologies by October    |
             1, 2020 for residential structures and October 1, 2022 for commercial
             structures, BCD may establish limited specific exemptions to this solar-    |
             ready policy for buildings where solar applications are infeasible.


         B. Electric Vehicle Ready Building Construction. The appropriate advisory
            board(s) and BCD are directed to conduct code amendment of the state
            building code to require that parking structures for all newly constructed   |
            residential and commercial buildings are ready to support the
            installation of at least a level 2 EV charger by October 1, 2022. BCD
            may establish limited specific exemptions related to types of parking        |
            lots, such as temporary parking lots.                                        |

         C. Zero-Energy Ready Homes. The appropriate advisory board(s) and
            BCD are directed to conduct code amendment of the state building code

             equivalent performance levels with the 2017 U.S. Department of Energy       |
             to require newly constructed residential buildings to achieve at least

             Zero Energy Ready Standard by October 1, 2023.


         D. Increasing Energy Efficiency in Commercial Construction. The                 |
            appropriate advisory board(s) and BCD are directed to conduct code
             amendment of the state building code to require, by October 1, 2022,            |
             that newly constructed commercial buildings, averaged across building           |
             types, will exceed International Energy Conservation Code and
             ASHRAE 90.1 by achieving at least equivalent performance levels with            |
             the measurable prescriptive energy efficiency portions of the most
             current version of ASHRAE 189.1 that are construction-related.                  |

         E. Helping Key, Expanding Industries to Save Costs by Reducing their
                                                                                             |
            Energy Footprint. ODOE, in consultation with BCD, is directed to work
            with industry stakeholders to identify key high-energy use industries
            that have the potential to realize significant cost savings and energy
            savings through building code amendments as it relates to their                  |
             industrial building types. ODOE and BCD are directed to provide the         |
             Governor with a report of its analysis and findings by January 1, 2019.     |
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20
    PAGE 6


           F,   Improved State Standards for Appliances. ODOE is directed to work
                with appliance industry stakeholders to identify categories of appliances
                for improved efficiency standards, while considering appliance
                standards of other states, potential efficiency gains, potential costs, and   |
                supply chains for the regional market for appliances. ODOE is directed
                to provide the Governor with a report of its analysis and identify
                categories of appliances for improved efficiency by November 1, 2018.


           G. High Efficiency Water Fixtures. The appropriate advisory board(s) and
                BCD are directed to conduct code amendment of the state building code
                to require high-efficiency water fixtures in all new buildings by January
                1, 2020.


           H. Increased Water Efficiency in On-Site Reuse. The appropriate advisory
                board(s) and BCD are directed to conduct code amendment of the state
                building code to require water efficiency improvements in all newly
                constructed commercial buildings through standards for capture and
                safe reuse of water for irrigation purposes by October 1, 2025.


      5.   Increasing Energy Efficiency through Retrofits of Existing Buildings
           Across the State


           A. Energy Trust of Oregon Pilot Programs. Oregon Public Utility
                Commission (PUC) is directed to work with the Energy Trust of Oregon
                and interested stakeholders to expand meter-based savings pilot
                programs, including pay-for-performance pilot programs, by January 1,
                2019. PUC shall consider inclusion of pilot programs, which do not
                significantly raise energy efficiency delivery costs, and that focus on       |
                existing single family homes, multi-family residential buildings,
                commercial buildings, and methods to incentivize energy efficiency in
                building stock that is significantly below current building code
                requirements.


           B. Prioritizing Energy Efficiency in Affordable Housing to Reduce Utility
                Bills. ODOE, PUC, and Oregon Housing and Community Services
                (OHCS) are directed to work together to assess energy use in all
                affordable housing stock and develop a ten-year plan for achieving
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-20
    PAGE 7


             maximum efficiency, as well as a continuum of efficiency levels up to
             maximum efficiency in affordable housing across the state by January 1,
             2019. As part of the assessment, the agencies shall consider new
             resources and best practices and shall seek assistance from Energy Trust
             of Oregon and Bonneville Power Administration. OHCS is directed to
             expand its existing multi-family energy program and green energy path
             requirements, including a manufactured home replacement program
             through pilot programs and initiatives, while considering multiple
             values from energy efficiency improvements, such as health and
             habitability.


         C. Coordination of Data. ODOE and PUC are directed to support and assist
             private sector partners in efforts to coordinate sharing of data that shows
             projected energy use reductions in the region. This data will be made
             available to the public to inform energy efficiency policies, as
             appropriate, by January 1, 2020.


         D. Evaluation of Energy and Resiliency Efforts. ODOE and PUC are
             directed to evaluate the state’s distributed energy resources and the
             efficiency of energy systems needed to improve Oregon’s recovery from
             a disaster situation. ODOE and PUC are directed to provide the
             Governor with a report of their analysis and findings by January 1,
             2019,


         Analysis of Cost. State agencies are expected to implement this Executive
         Order using the least cost methods available. ODOE and BCD, in
         consultation with DAS, PUC, and OHCS, are directed to adopt a cost-
         analysis tool through a process that involves meaningful public input by
         December 1, 2019. State agencies shall use this cost analysis tool to
         determine whether any directive in this Executive Order should be deferred
         for one year or, if specific to a building code related directive, to the next
         building code cycle, due to significant cost at the time of implementation of
         that directive. All state agency processes for determining deferment of a
         directive in this Executive Order must include at least one public meeting
         that allows interested stakeholders to provide input.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO, 17-20
    PAGE 8


      7,   Implementation. The implementation of this Executive Order shall be
           coordinated through a Built Environment Efficiency Working Group, which
           will also identify any structural barriers or barriers to information sharing
           that may slow the progress of any directive in this Executive Order. The
           Built Environment Efficiency Working Group will review directives in this
           Executive Order, seek input from interested stakeholders, and recommend
           opportunities to provide equitable access to clean energy by removing
           barriers to achieving energy efficiency in the built environment to the
           Governor and state agencies. The Built Environment Efficiency Working
           Group shall include the following agencies: DAS, ODOE, BCD, PUC, and
           OHCS. Agencies shall implement each directive in this Executive Order
           using their existing internal processes and established rulemaking
           procedures, including recommendations from any boards. This Executive
           Order is intended to be consistent with obligations under federal and state
           law and shall be interpreted as to not violate any requirement of federal or           |
           state law.


      8.   The Governor encourages the Secretary of State, the State Treasurer, the
                                                                                                  |
           Attorney General, and the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and
           Industries to adopt policies and practices to accelerate efficiency in the built
           environment consistent with measures in this Executive Order. DAS and                      |

           ODOE are directed to assist the above-mentioned officials and entities of              |
           state government in accomplishing these objectives as they may request.


           Done at Portland, Oregon, this Ooday of November, 2017.                                |


                                                  iPele Lite
                                                      e Brown
                                                   GOVERNOR


                                                  ATTEST:



                                                                 /


                                                 “Dennis Richardson
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                              i
