Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER 17-04


    RENEWING OREGON’S COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING ITS
    IMMIGRANT, REFUGEE, AND RELIGIOUS-MINORITY RESIDENTS


    WHEREAS, Oregon is and must remain a welcoming, inclusive, and
    compassionate place for all contributing members of our civic community,
    including immigrants and refugees; and


    WHEREAS, immigrants and refugees contribute to the health, prosperity, and
    general welfare of our State; and


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Revised Statutes forbid state and local law enforcement
    agencies from using “moneys, equipment or personnel for the purpose of detecting
    or apprehending persons whose only violation of law is that they are persons of
    foreign citizenship present in the United States in violation of federal immigration
    laws,” ORS 181A.820(1), subject to exceptions, ORS 181A.820(2)-(4); and


    WHEREAS, under the U.S. Constitution, the immigration power to exclude and
    deport is reserved exclusively to the federal government; and


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Revised Statutes declare it to be the public policy of the
    State that discrimination on the basis of religion “threatens the rights and privileges
    of its inhabitants” and “menaces the institutions and foundation of a free
    democratic state,” ORS 659A.006(1); and


    WHEREAS, the Oregon Constitution, in Article I, sections 2 and 20, guarantees
    freedom of religion and protects against discrimination on the basis of religion;


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    ile    Definition, For purposes of this Executive Order, “state agency” shall be
    defined as any agency within the Executive Department as defined in ORS
    174.112, other than the Oregon Secretary of State, Oregon State Treasury, Oregon
    Department of Justice, and Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries.


    2,     Statement of Policy, It is the policy of this State that Oregon be an
    inclusive jurisdiction that embraces, celebrates, and welcomes its immigrant and
    refugee residents and recognizes their contributions to the collective prosperity of
    all Oregonians.




                                                                                              &
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER 17-04
    PAGE TWO


    3;     Non-discrimination, No state agency may condition the provision of
    services or benefits upon a resident’s immigration status, except as required by
    federal or state law or as otherwise authorized by the Governor or her designee.


    4,     No State Expenditure for Federal Enforcement.


            A.      No state agency may use moneys, equipment, or personnel for the
    purpose of detecting or apprehending persons whose only violation of law is that
    they are persons of foreign citizenship present in the United States in violation of
    federal immigration laws, except as required by federal or state law or as otherwise
    authorized by the Governor or her designee.


            B.      The requirements of this section, as applied to all state agencies, are
    coextensive with ORS 181A.820, subject to the exceptions stated herein and in
    ORS 181A.820(2)-(4).


    Sp     Non-participation in Religious Registry. No state agency may use moneys, _
    equipment, or personnel to assist in or facilitate the creation of a registry the
    purpose of which is to identify members of a religious group, except as required by
    federal or state law.


    6.      This Executive Order is intended to be consistent with the State’s
    obligations under federal and state law, including 8 U.S.C. §§ 1373 and 1644;
    accordingly, this Executive Order shall be interpreted as to not violate any
    requirement of federal or state law. Should federal or state law change so as to give
    rise to a conflict with any provision of this Executive Order, such provision shall be
    of no further effect, notwithstanding paragraph 8.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER 17-04
    PAGE THREE


    Wo      This Executive Order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
    benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
    against the State of Oregon, its subdivisions, its officers, employees, or agents, or
    any other person.


    8.      This Executive Order will remain in effect unless and until it is superseded
    by statute or another Executive Order.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this gray of February, 2017.


                                                       Ups
                                                   Kate Brown
                                                   GOVERNOR


                                                   ATTEST:




                                                   Dennis Richardson \
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
