Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-14

   GOVERNOR’S PROCESS FOR CALCULATING THE FORECASTED
   BUDGET LEVEL FOR K-12 SCHOOL FUNDING


   The Oregon Education Investment Board (OEIB), the Early Learning Council, and
   the Higher Education Coordinating Commission (HECC) will work to define the
   outcomes expected for learners at every stage of the education system, establish a
   statewide student data system to measure outcomes, and make legislative and
   budget proposals to invest in greater student success. The goal is to transform
   Oregon’s approach to education from institutional silos into an integrated and
   meaningful pathway to success for Oregonians of all ages.


   One of the outcomes of this effort will be to create a unified, performance based
   P-20 education budget model. This would lead to a budget process that is based on
   the needs of different learner groups, rather than on the needs of institutions. A
   first step in the transition to this learner-based budgeting process will be to move
   toward consistency in budget processes across all education sectors.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1.   No later than November 1, of each even-numbered year, the Oregon
            Department of Education shall calculate the cost to maintain the current
            level of performance for the State School Fund for the upcoming biennium.
            That forecast shall consider:


               a.   Projected changes in the cost of personal services;


               b.   Projected changes in the cost of services and supplies and capital
                    outlay based on state budgeting standards;


               c.   Projected changes in ADMw counts;


               d.   Adjustments resulting from legislatively approved phase-ins, phase-
                    outs, and one-time expenditures; and


               e.   Forecasted local revenues for local education agencies as provided
                    by the Department of Administrative Services, Legislative Revenue
                    Office, Legislative Fiscal Office, and Department of Revenue.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14-14
   PAGE TWO



      2.   This Order rescinds and supersedes Executive Order 99-15.


   Done at Safem__, Oregon this 36 day of September, 2014.




                                                Che
                                                 th
                                               Joh
                                                    Clb
                                                      A. Kitzhabér, MD
                                                     'VERNOR


                                              ATTEST:




                                                     ile
                                                       ==
                                               Kate Brown
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
