Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-26


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    MALHEUR COUNTY DUE TO A SUMMER OF LOW STREAMFLOW
    AND HOT, DRY CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflows and hot, dry
    conditions have caused natural and economic disaster conditions in Malheur
    County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
    2018.


    Drought conditions arrived early and persisted all season, including hot dry
    conditions, fires, reduced streamflow, and minimal precipitation. The long-term
    forecast for the region continues for warmer than normal temperatures and lower
   - than normal precipitation. These conditions have had significant economic impact
    on the agriculture and livestock industries in Malheur County.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of Malheur
    County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in
    Malheur County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        L      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Malheur County.


        II.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Malheur County as the Department and Commission determine
               is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
               536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

      EXECUITVE ORDER NO. 18-26
      PAGE TWO




      Il.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Malheur County.


      IV.   All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above _
            agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Malheur County.


            This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.

                                             +h
            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 7 day of October, 2018.




                                               Kate Brown
                                               GOVERNOR




                                               ATTEST:




                                            Meomel
                                               ihe ban
                                               Dennis Richardson         ,
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
