Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 02

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    CROOK COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
    CONDITIONS                               :



    At the request of the Crook County Court by its order 2014-11 dated February 19,
    2014, on the recommendation of the Drought Council and the Water Advisory
    Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing
    dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and
    economic disaster conditions in Crook County.

    The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops and agricultural
    and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
    surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
    greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
    agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
    Resources, and Oregon Office of Emergency Management.

    A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
    and property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of the
    affected Counties, I am therefore declaring a “state of drought emergency” in
    Crook County and directing the following activities;

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

           L       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in the affected counties.

           I.      The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for the affected county as it determines is
    necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

           Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
    projected conditions in the affected county.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 02
    PAGE TWO


           IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    the county and affected political subdivisions in the affected county.
           V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2014.


           Done at Salem, Oregon this 26 day of March.




                                                 ATTEST:



                                                 Kate Brown
                                                            Jem—
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE                        |
