Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-09


  PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
  THREAT OF WILDFIRE


  Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
   situation. Much of the state is now in extreme fire danger and red flag warnings
  have been issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and thunderstorms. Other parts of the
   country continue to experience fires and similar fire weather. The extended forecast
   in Oregon calls for continued warm and dry conditions over many parts of the State.
  The imminent threat of fire exists over a broad area of the State. Fires across the
   state have resulted in multiple evacuations and are threating hundreds of structures.


   With Oregon Department of Forestry Incident Management Teams having been
   deployed and regional compacts having been utilized, and with the threat of new
   ignitions in the near future, there is a need for immediate access to Oregon National
   Guard resources including firefighting helicopters. This threat is not likely to recede
  in the near future. It is critically important that National Guard resources can be
  positioned to respond adequately and effectively to this dangerous and dynamic
   situation.


   Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
   State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.



  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   1.   The Oregon Military Department through its Office of Emergency Management
        and the Oregon Department of Forestry is authorized to coordinate the use of
        personnel and equipment to perform any activity designed to prevent or mitigate
        loss of life or property due to wildfires in Oregon with National Guard resources.


  2.    This determination of a fire emergency is statewide. It is not to be construed as a
        comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes. It
        is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire management
        required by the emergency. Any local government requests for state resources
        must be submitted through county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency
        Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13-09
  PAGE TWO


   2.   This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
        fire season ends.


        This order was made by verbal proclamation at 4:44 pm on the 29" day of July,
        2013.



           Done at Salem, Oregon this 3 _ day of Ausqust                   , 2013.



                                                          Os
                                                    Jon    A. Kitzhabét, MD
                                                          VERNOR


                                                   ATTEST:




                                                    Kate Brown
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
