Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-08


   RECONVENING THE GOVERNOR’S COMMISSION ON PUBLIC
   SAFETY


   Executive Order No. 11-06 created the Governor’s Commission on Public Safety to
   take stock of our current public safety system with its successes and challenges and
   to chart a path for the future. By convening leaders from the three branches of state
   government and one public member, the Commission’s purpose was to focus
   Oregon’s long-term planning efforts on sentencing and public safety. Within a
   short-time frame, the Commission identified key findings, recommended future
   work, and established principles to guide future work.


   According to FBI statistics, crime rates have decreased across the United States
   over the past 30 years and Oregon is no exception. Both violent crime and property
   crime rates have fallen in Oregon. Oregon also has been recognized for its efforts
   to reduce recidivism and for its support of evidence-based practices. Even with
   these accomplishments, there is a widespread misperception among Oregonians
   that crime has increased.


   The state is on an unsustainable path of corrections growth that will limit funding
   available for proven crime-prevention, reformation, and re-entry strategies. We
   must reverse the presumption of unlimited corrections growth and redesign a
   sustainable system that provides opportunities to reduce victimization and keep
   people safe in the long term, as it holds offenders accountable and protects public
   safety.


   After receiving the Commission’s report on December 30, 2011, the leaders of the
   Legislative Assembly have pledged their commitment to work to develop fiscally
   responsible, data-driven policies and practices that protect public safety, hold
   offenders accountable, and control corrections costs. Given the commitment by
   leaders of all three branches of government to address the unsustainable path we
   are travelling, I am now reconvening the Governor’s Commission on Public Safety.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       Is     The Governor’s Commission on Public Safety (“Commission”) is
              hereby reconvened.


       2.     The Commission shall consist of 12 members, which includes the
              original seven members of the Commission appointed by Executive
              Order No. 11-06 and are described below in paragraphs (a) through (f).
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-08
   PAGE TWO



          If any of those original members are unable to serve, then the appointing
          authority shall appoint a replacement. In addition to the original seven
          members, there are five new members described below in paragraphs
          (g) through (kx).
          Accordingly, the 12 members of the Commission shall be appointed as
          follows:


          a.      The Chief Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court or his designee,
                  appointed by the Chief Justice;
          b.      The Governor of Oregon or his designee, appointed by the
                  Governor;
          Gs      Each Co-Speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives, or
                  their respective designee, appointed by each Co-Speaker;
          d.      The President of the Oregon Senate, or his designee;
          c;      A member of the Oregon Senate who is not a member of the
                  same political party as the President, appointed by the President;
          f.      A member of the public to be appointed by a majority vote of the
                  Commission members;
          g.      A district attorney appointed by the Oregon District Attorneys
                  Association;
          h.      A criminal defense attorney appointed by the Oregon Criminal
                  Defense Lawyers Association;
          .       A law enforcement representative appointed jointly by the
                  Oregon State Sheriffs Association and the Oregon Association
                  of Chiefs of Police;
          1      A representative of the Oregon Association of Community
                  Corrections Directors; and
          k.      An active or senior circuit court judge appointed by the Chief
                  Justice.


     3.   All members shall serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority.
          The chair of the Commission will be appointed by the Governor and
          will serve as chair at the pleasure of the Governor. The chair shall
          develop a work plan, set the agenda, and provide leadership and
          direction for the Commission.


     4.   A quorum for Commission meetings shall consist of a majority of the
          members. The Commission shall make recommendations on an
          affirmative vote of a majority of its members.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-08
   PAGE THREE



     3:    Using Article I, section 15, of the Oregon Constitution, and the other
           principles identified in the Commission’s December 30, 2011, report the
           Commission shall identify fiscally responsible and sustainable,
           evidence-based policies and practices that will control corrections
           growth, hold offenders accountable, and protect public safety.


           a.     The Commission may recommend any structural changes,
                  sentencing changes, or allocation of funding changes that will
                  control corrections growth, hold offenders accountable, and
                  protect public safety necessary to implement these policies and
                  practices.
           b.     In developing its recommendations, the Commission may form
                  workgroups.


     6.    The Commission shall produce a written report of recommendations to
           the Governor before 2013. The recommendations may include draft
           legislation for the Legislative Assembly to consider during its 2013
           session.


     ad.   The Commission shall participate in the Justice Reinvestment Initiative
           (IRD of the Bureau of Justice Assistance (United States Department of
           Justice) and partner with the Public Safety Performance Project of the
           Pew Center on the States. The JRI assistance may provide data
           analysis; information on evidence-based practices in sentencing and
           corrections policies; assistance with Commission facilitation and
           engagement of the public, interested parties, and public safety
           stakeholders; development of policy options and modeling the impact of
           those options; development of a communications plan; and assistance in
           building public and policymaker support for the Commission’s
           recommendations.


     8.    In addition to any partnership with the Justice Reinvestment Initiative,
           the Oregon Criminal Justice Commission and the Oregon Department of
           Corrections shall provide staff support for the Commission. If the
           Commission requires assistance of any other State agency, board, or
           commission, then such agency, board, or commission shall provide
           assistance to the Commission upon request.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-08
   PAGE THREE



      9.     The members of the Commission shall not receive per diem for their
             activities as members of the Commission, but may be reimbursed for
             expenses incurred in attending Commission business pursuant to ORS
             292.495(2), subject to availability of funds.


      10.    This order expires on July 31, 2013.



   Done at Salem, Oregon, this_JJ    day of May, 2012.




                                               ATTEST:




                                                 het bem —
                                               Kate Brown
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
