Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-19


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    LINCOLN COUNTY DUE TO LOW STREAMFLOW AND HOT, DRY
    CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflows and hot, dry
    conditions are likely to cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Lincoln
    County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
    2018.


    Forecasted water conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is likely to
    have significant economic impacts on the farm, forest, recreation, drinking water,
    and natural resources sectors, which are dependent on adequate precipitation and
    streamflow in Lincoln County. Extreme conditions have already affected local
    growers, and increased the potential for fire, loss of economic stability, shortened
    growing season, and decreased water supplies.


    Conditions are being monitored by the state’s natural resource and public safety
    agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and timely response to drought are vital to the health and safety of
    persons, property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of
    Lincoln County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency
    exists in Lincoln County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    ic        The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
              provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
              conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Lincoln County.


    II.       The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
          Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users
              in Lincoln County as the Department and Commission determine is
              necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-19
    PAGE TWO




    I.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
           as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
           projected conditions in Lincoln County.


    live   All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
           and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected
           political subdivisions and water users in Lincoln County.


           This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this |1              day of August, 2018.
                                              4;




                                                     Kote Ceour—
                                                   Kate Brown
                                                   GOVERNOR



                                                   ATTEST:




                                            > nt a                             me
                                                   Dennis Richardson
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE
