Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-08


    ENSURING EQUAL TREATMENT UNDER LAW TO OREGON’S LGBT+
    COMMUNITY                           |


    Whereas, on October 15, 1987, Executive Order No. 87-20 was issued, which, for
    the first time in Oregon history, prohibited agencies within the Executive Branch of
    state government from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation in
    employment and provision of services; and


    Whereas, Executive Order 87-20 begins:


               In the 200" year of our Constitution, Americans are reminded once again
               that each generation is obligated to preserve and extend both the right to
               live our private lives as we see fit, and the right to equal treatment under
               law. In America, to deny a person a job or access to vital social services for
               reason unrelated to his or her abilities or needs is a fundamental injustice;
    and



    Whereas, the aspiration of Executive Order 87-20 — to guarantee equal treatment
    under law for sexual minorities — remains as relevant, and indeed urgent, today as
    it was 32 years ago; and


    Whereas, the requirements of Executive Order 87-20 must now be updated to
    reflect current law and understandings about sexual orientation and gender identity;
    and


    Whereas, the State of Oregon must strive to be ever more inclusive and welcoming
    to all of its people, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

          1.   Definitions:


                  a.   “Sexual orientation or gender identity” means an individual’s actual
                       or perceived heterosexuality, homosexuality, bisexuality, or gender
                       identity, regardless of whether the individual’s gender identity,
                       appearance, expression, or behavior differs from that traditionally
                       associated with the individual’s sex at birth.




                                                                                                 Hass
                                                                                                38
                                                                                                Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-08
    PAGE TWO


               b.    “State agency” means any agency within the Executive Department
                     as defined in ORS 174.112, other than the Oregon Secretary of
                     State, Oregon State Treasury, Oregon Department of Justice, and
                     Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries.


      2.   Non-discrimination in Employment.
           No officer, employee, or agency within the executive branch of state
           government shall discriminate against any person on the basis of sexual
           orientation or gender identity in the recruitment, hiring, classification,
           assignment, compensation, promotion, discipline, or termination of any
           employee.


      3.   Non-discrimination in Discharging Government Functions.
           No officer, employee, or agency within the executive branch of state
           government shall discriminate against any person on the basis of sexual
           orientation or gender identity in carrying out the duties of state government,
           in the provision of public services, or in state contracting or awarding of
           grants.



      4,   Treatment Consistent with Gender Identity.
           State agencies shall treat all persons consistent with their gender
           identification, to the extent permitted by governing law, practicable, and
           consistent with the direction of the Office of the Governor.


      5.   Access to Gender-Designated Facilities.
           State agencies shall permit persons to use restrooms and other gender-
           designated facilities consistent with their gender identity, to the extent
           permitted by governing law, practicable, and consistent with the direction of
           the Office of the Governor. The Department of Administrative Services —          on   ieee
           shall develop and adopt policies and procedures related to management of.
           buildings occupied by state agencies that ensures access to restrooms
           regardless of gender identity, including:


              a.     Buildings with existing single-stall restrooms shall designate them
                     “all user” restrooms.




                                                                                                   Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-08
    PAGE THREE


              b.     Signage on multi-stall restrooms shall identify the nearest publicly
                     accessible “all user” restroom, whether it be within the building or
                    _ in another publicly-accessible location.


              c.     New construction shall include at least one single-stall “all user”
                     restroom, to the extent practicable.


               d.    State agencies shall consider access to gender-designated facilities
                     when negotiating, entering, and renewing leases.


      6.   Data.
           When collecting demographic data on state employees or members of the
           public with regard to sex or gender, state agencies shall offer, in addition to —
           “Male” and “Female,” at least a third option designated as
           ‘“Nonbinary/Other” (or, as an alternative to the gender markers “M” and
           “F,” the marker “X’’), to the extent practicable and permitted by governing
           law.


      7.   Employment Policies.                                  |
           The Department of Administrative Services Chief Human Resource Office
           shall develop policies, standards, or other guidance to direct state agencies
           in respectfully accommodating state employees and members of the public
           who are transgender, nonbinary, or otherwise gender non-conforming.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2S day of October, 2019.




                                                     Kee, Sime
                                                    Kate Brown
                                                    GOVERNOR


                                                    ATTEST:
                                                       ae




                                                    Bev Clarno
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                               Contai
                                                                                               Materials
