Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-11


    RELATING TO AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
    OPPORTUNITY, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION

    On January 26, 2005, Governor Kulongoski issued Executive Order 05-01, relating
    to affirmative action. That Executive Order directed Agency Directors and
    Administrators to review and discuss their affirmative action plans, to initiate
    training on affirmative action issues, including affirmative action responsibilities in
    key job descriptions, and to conduct Cultural Competency Assessment and training.

    Since the issuance of Executive Order 05-01, Amendment 08-18, and Amendment
    16-09, state agencies have met with the Governor's Affirmative Action Office
    (GAAO) to review and discuss their affirmative action plans. The Department of
    Administrative Services (DAS) has completed an audit of position descriptions for
    the inclusion of affirmative action duties and DAS has shared audit results with
    GAAO. In lieu of Cultural Competency Assessments, state agencies have
    committed to Respectful Leadership professional development (as defined in
    Affirmative Action Plan guidelines) for all staff with specific emphasis on
    Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Affirmative Action, and Equal Employment
    Opportunity.


    Significant gains have been made, and there is more work to be done. The State of
    Oregon remains committed to every person’s right to work and advance on the
    basis of merit, ability, and potential. In order to continue implementation of the
    goals and policies set forth in Executive Orders 05-01, 08-18, and 16-09, I extend
    these orders as follows:

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

        1. The GAAO and each Agency Director and Administrator shall review and
           discuss each agency's affirmative action plan and affirmative action goals to
            improve hiring and developmental opportunities.

        2. To continue the State of Oregon's progress in promotion of Diversity,
           Equity, and Inclusion in the workplace, and the elimination of the effects of
           past and present discrimination, intended or unintended, Agency Directors
            and Administrators shall:
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-11
    PAGE TWO


         a.   Provide ongoing leadership in implementing each agency's affirmative
              action plan;


         b. Ensure incorporation of affirmative action, diversity, equity, and
            inclusion responsibilities in executive and/or management job
              descriptions;


         c.   Ensure that all directors, administrators, managers, and coordinators of
              diversity, equity, and inclusion, affirmative action, and equal
              employment opportunity, and agency Affirmative Action
              Representatives attend all GAAO's meetings to assist Representatives
              and agencies in fulfilling their affirmative action responsibilities.
              Agencies will annually submit the name of the agency Affirmative
              Action Representative and immediately inform the GAAO if the
              representative is changed.

         d. Post each agency's affirmative action policy statement and diversity and
            inclusion statement in a visible, conspicuous area. The policy statement
              shall include the name and contact information for the agency's
              Affirmative Action Representative;


         e,   Communicate to all employees about the Affirmative Action resources
              available within each agency and the important role of Affirmative
              Action Representatives in responding to employees' concerns of
              discrimination in the areas of hiring, retention, promotion, and career
              development;


         f.   Track, evaluate, and measure trends in agency discrimination and/or
              harassment claims, reporting data and findings in the subsequent
              biennial Affirmative Action Plan/Statement (Affirmative Action
              Statements are prescribed for agencies with ten or fewer FTE); and

         g.   Work to improve implementation of the agency's affirmative action plan
              through the use of professional development, performance assessments,
              and/or performance evaluations.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-11
    PAGE THREE


      3.   Under ORS 659A.012, state agencies are "required to include in the
           evaluation of all management personnel the manager's or supervisor's
           effectiveness in achieving affirmative action objectives as a key
           consideration of the manager's or supervisor's performance." Periodically,
           DAS shall conduct audits of agencies to determine whether management
           personnel are being evaluated based on effectiveness in achieving
           affirmative action objectives, Results of this audit shall be provided to
           GAAO.                 ;

           GAAO will continue to coordinate with DAS regarding the progression and
           presentation of statewide professional development designed to improve
           employees’ skills and competency in managing affirmative action, equity,
           and diversity issues.


           GAAO will annually monitor agencies! training and implementation of
           Respectful Leadership as professional development regarding the areas of
           Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Affirmative Action, and Equal Employment
           Opportunity and the internal and external impact of these professional
           development strategies. Agency Directors and Administrators are expected
           to implement current, ongoing professional development within their
           agencies to promote equity.


           DAS, in conjunction with GAAO and the Oregon Department of Justice,
           has developed a web-based exit interview survey tool. Agency Directors
           and Administrators shall allow employees to use state equipment to access
           the Exit Interview Survey and shall encourage all employees to complete
           the survey prior to their transfer or departure.


           GAAO will use all data collected from the Department of Administrative
           Services (DAS), Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI), Oregon
           Employment Department (OED), and other state agencies to produce and
           distribute a biennial report to the Governor, the-Legislature, and key
           stakeholders.
Office of the Governor
StateofOregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-11
    PAGE FOUR


      8. This Executive Order will expire on December 31, 2020.

         Done at Salem, Oregon, this J u'day of October, 2017.



                                                 Rs Cee
                                             Kate Brown
                                             GOVERNOR


                                             ATTEST:




          ]356                               Dennis Richardson    ~~ i.   itn
                                             SECRETARY OF STATE
