Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-12


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    WHEELER COUNTY DUE TO LOW STREAMFLOW AND HOT, DRY
    CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflows and hot, dry
    conditions are likely to cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Wheeler
    County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
    2018.


    Forecasted water conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is likely to have
    significant economic impacts on the agriculture and livestock sectors, which are
    dependent on adequate precipitation and streamflow in Wheeler County. Hot, dry
    conditions will place agricultural and livestock investments at risk; affect irrigators,
    industrial and domestic users; and increase the potential for fire danger.


    Conditions are being monitored by the state’s natural resource and public safety
    agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon Office of
    Emergency Management.


    Preparation and timely response to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of Wheeler County.
    I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Wheeler
    County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought             |
                conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Wheeler County.                |


       Il.      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Wheeler County as the Department and Commission determine is
                necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

      EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-12
      PAGE TWO


      IIL.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist
             as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
             projected conditions in Wheeler County.


      IV.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies
             and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected
             political subdivisions and water users in Wheeler County.


      V.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this | ‘d day ofJuly, 2018.




                                                hai Ae
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                 ATTEST:




                                             fin EMM
                                                 Dennis Richardson
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                            bal
                                                                                           it
