Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 16-09


   RELATING TO AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND DIVERSITY &
   INCLUSION


   On January 26, 2005, former Governor Kulongoski issued Executive Order 05-01,
   relating to affirmative action. That Executive Order directed Agency Directors and
   Administrators to review and discuss their affirmative action plans, to initiate
   training on affirmative action issues, to include affirmative action responsibilities in
   key job descriptions, and to conduct Cultural Competency Assessment and
   Training.


   Since the issuance of Executive Order 05-01 and Amendment 08-18, many state
   agencies have met with the Governor's Affirmative Action Office (GAAO) to
   review and discuss their affirmative action plans. The Department of
   Administrative Services (DAS) has concluded an audit of position descriptions for
   the inclusion of affirmative action duties and DAS has shared audit results with
   GAAO. In addition, a number of state agencies have completed Cultural
   Competency Assessment and Training.


   Despite these gains, much more can be accomplished. The State of Oregon
   remains committed to the right of all persons to work and advance on the basis of
   merit, ability, and potential. In order to continue implementation of the goals and
   policies set forth in Executive Orders 05-01 and 08-18, I extend these orders as
   follows:


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


   1.     The GAAO and each Agency Director and Administrator shall review and
   discuss each agency's affirmative action plan and affirmative action goals to
   identify resources for improving the hiring and developmental opportunities of
   underrepresented persons.


   2)     To continue the State of Oregon's progress in promotion of diversity in the
   workplace, as well as the elimination of the effects of past and present
   discrimination, intended or unintended, Agency Directors and Administrators shall:


          a.      Provide ongoing leadership in implementing each agency's
                  affirmative action plan;


          b,      Ensure incorportation of affirmative action, diversity, and inclusion
                  responsibilities in executive and/or management job descriptions, as
                  appropriate;
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 16-09
   PAGE TWO


          C.      Ensure that Affirmative Action Representatives attend GAAO's
                  informational trainings to assist Representatives in fulfilling their
                  affirmative action responsibilities;

          d.      Post each agency's affirmative action policy statement in a visible
                  area. The policy statement shall include contact information for the
                  agency's Affirmative Action Representative;

          e.      Communicate to all employees about the Affirmative Action
                  resources available within each agency and the important role of
                  Affirmative Action Representatives in responding to employees’
                  concerns of discrimination in the areas of hiring, retention,
                  promotion, and career development;

          f.      Evaluate and assess any trends showing an increase or decrease in
                  discrimination and/or harassment claims; and

          g.      Work to improve implementation of the agency's affirmative action
                  plan through the use of performance assessments and/or
                  performance evaluations.


   3;     Under ORS 659A.012, state agencies are "required to include in the
   evaluation of all management personnel the manager's or supervisor's effectiveness
   in achieving affirmative action objectives as a key consideration of the manager's
   or supervisor's performance." Periodically, DAS shall conduct audits of agencies
   to determine whether management personnel are being evaluated based on
   effectiveness in achieving affirmative action objectives. Results of this audit shall
   be provided to GAAO.


   4.     GAAO will continue to coordinate with DAS in the development and
   presentation of training designed to improve employees' skills and competency in
   managing affirmative action and diversity issues.


   5.     GAAO will continue to monitor agencies' implementation of Cultural
   Competency Assessment and Implementation Services. Agency Directors and
   Administrators are strongly encouraged to utilize Cultural Competency Assessment
   and Implementation Services within their agencies if, in the opinion of GAAO and
   the Agency Director or Administrator, it is beneficial and appropriate for the
   agencies to do so.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 16-09
   PAGE THREE



   6.      DAS, in conjunction with GAAO and the Oregon Department of Justice,
   has developed a confidential web-based exit interview survey tool. Agency
   Directors and Administrators shall allow employees to utilize state equipment to   |
   access the Exit Interview survey and shall encourage all employees to complete
                                                                               the
   survey prior to their transfer or departure.


   J      This Executive Order will expire on December 31, 2020.


          Done at Salem, Oregon, this BA ray offae2016.



                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  GOVERNOR


                                                  ATTEST:




                                                  Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
