Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 08


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   CURRY, HOOD RIVER AND UNION COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT,
   LOW SNOW PACK LEVELS, AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS


   At the request of Curry County (by Resolution R201529 dated June 29, 2015),
   Hood River County (by Resolution 2041, dated June 24, 2015) and Union County
   (by Resolution 2015-13 dated July 15, 2015), and based on the recommendations of
   the Drought Council and the Water Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS
   401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and
   lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster conditions in
   Curry, Hood River and Union counties.


   Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
   the drought is having significant economic impacts on agricultural, livestock, and
   natural resources in Curry, Hood River and Union counties.


   The dry conditions present hardships for these communities; crops and agricultural
   investments are at risk; communities that rely on surface water flow for drinking
   water and other uses are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s surface
   water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is greatly
   increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state agencies
   including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and
   the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
   and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Curry, Hood
   River and Union counties; I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing
   drought emergency exists in Curry, Hood River and Union counties, and directing
   the following actions.


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

          Ih,     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
   assist in agricultural recovery in Curry, Hood River and Union counties.



          i       The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
   Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
   Curry, Hood River and Union counties as they determine is necessary and
   appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 08
   PAGE TWO




          Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Curry, Hood River and Union counties.



          IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined necessary to
   assist affected political subdivisions and water users in Curry, Hood River and
   Union counties.



          VV,     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.

          Done at Salem, Oregon this Tp tay of July.




                                                   ten
                                                KATE BROWN
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                              Geen
                                                 l ith vig
                                                Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
