Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER 12-13


    TOBACCO FREE PROPERTIES

    Creating tobacco-free state properties will improve the health, wellness and
   productivity of employees, clients, volunteers and visitors. Tobacco use remains
    the No. 1 preventable cause of death in Oregon.

   Death and disability resulting from tobacco use costs Oregon lives, and dollars. In
   2009, tobacco cost Oregonians nearly $2.4 billion, with $1.25 billion in direct
   medical costs and almost $1.15 billion in lost productivity due to early death.

    Conservative estimates find that the state employees who smoke cost the state more
   than $13 million each year. Because taxpayers pay the bill for state employees’
   medical benefits, state agencies bear some responsibility for assisting those
    employees in being as healthy as possible.

    Tobacco-free campuses and property not only encourage tobacco users to quit, they
    also protect employees, clients and visitors from exposure to the toxins in
    secondhand smoke. The U.S. Surgeon General has concluded that there is no safe
    level of exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke contains more than 50
   known carcinogens as well as other chemicals that damage DNA such as cyanide
    and carbon monoxide.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1.   The Department of Administrative Services with assistance from the
             Oregon Health Authority shall implement the following tobacco free
             properties and campuses policy:


                a.   State agency employees are prohibited from using tobacco products
                     made for human consumption (including, but not limited to,
                     cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chew, snuff, electronic cigarettes and
                     smokeless tobacco) inside state agency buildings and on state
                     agency grounds that are adjacent to state agency buildings;


                b.   All individuals are prohibited from the smoking of tobacco products
                     (including, but not limited to, cigars, loose tobacco, pipe tobacco,
                     cigarettes as defined in ORS 323.010 and cigarillos as defined by
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-13
   PAGE TWO




              the Oregon Health Authority by rule) on state agency grounds that
              are adjacent to state agency buildings;


              This Order shall not apply to the Oregon University System or
              Oregon community colleges. The Board of Higher Education and
              the boards of Oregon community colleges are encouraged to develop
              policies by December 31, 2014, that prohibit the use of tobacco
              products on campus in order to reduce tobacco use and exposure to
              secondhand smoke by students, employees and visitors;


              This Order shall not apply to the use of tobacco products inside state
              employee residences that are located on state agency grounds. In
              lieu of the direction outlined in this Order, state agencies shall
              implement appropriate smoking policies for state employee
              residences on state agency grounds that are designed to limit the
              health impacts of second-hand smoke and promote wellness;


              This Order shall not apply to the use of tobacco products on state
              agency grounds that are maintained primarily for the use and
              enjoyment of the public, including but not limited to Oregon
              Department of Transportation Rest Areas, public roads and
              sidewalks, and public beaches. The Oregon Parks and Recreation
              Commission is encouraged to adopt policies by December 31, 2014,
              that limits or restrict the use of tobacco products at state parks and
              recreation areas to address wellness issues, and to reduce the risk of
              forest fires. Other state agencies with grounds that are maintained
              primarily for the use and enjoyment of the public shall implement
              appropriate tobacco use policies that are designed to limit the health
              impacts of second-hand smoke and promote wellness; and

              This Order shall not apply to the smoking of noncommercial
              tobacco products for ceremonial purposes in spaces designated, on a
              permanent or temporary use basis, for traditional ceremonies in
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-13
    PAGE THREE




                    accordance with the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, 42
                    U.S.C. 1996.


      2.   The Department of Administrative Services with assistance from the
           Oregon Health Authority shall work with appropriate agencies to implement
           the policy outlined in this order by the timelines below:

              a.    Properties and campuses wholly owned or leased by the state shall
                    be tobacco free by January 2013;

              b.    Shared properties and campuses shall be tobacco free by July 2013;
                    and

               c.   The Department of Corrections and Oregon Youth Authority
                    properties and campuses shall be tobacco free no later than
                    December 31, 2014.

      3.   This Order in no way limits the authority of state agencies to further limit or
           restrict the use of tobacco products in state agency buildings or on state
           agency grounds, to the extent allowed by law.

      4,   The Oregon Health Authority shall evaluate the implementation of the
           policy and shall generate a report to the Governor’s office with evaluation
           results and recommendations for improving compliance with the Order.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 12-13
   PAGE FOUR




      5.   Inthe event of a conflict between any provision of Oregon law and this
           Executive Order, Oregon law will prevail and the remaining terms of this
           Executive Order shall remain in force and effect.

      6.   This order shall expire December 31, 2022.




   Done at Portland, Oregon, this 2nd day of August, 2012.




                                                Ifph A. Kitzhaber, M.D.
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                K4teBrown      /      =
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
