Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 12

   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   BAKER COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS.

   At the request of Baker County by declaration of local disaster dated July 30, 2014,
   based on recommendations of the Drought Council and Water Availability
   Committee, and pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing
   dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and
   economic disaster conditions in Baker County.


   Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions and
   the drought is having significant economic impact on Baker County’s agricultural,
   livestock, natural resources, and firefighting capabilities.


   The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops and agricultural
   and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
   surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
   greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
   agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
   Resources, and Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


   A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
   and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Baker County;
   I am therefore declaring a state of drought emergency in Baker County and
   directing the following activities;


   IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

          I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
   affect agricultural recovery in Baker County.

          IL.     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance and regulation for Baker County as it determines is necessary in
   accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

          Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Baker County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 12
   PAGE TWO



          IV.      All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in Baker County.

          V.      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2014.



          Done at Salem, Oregon this 3 day of September, 2014.




                                              ed Kate Brown
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
