Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13 - 05


   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   KLAMATH COUNTY DUE TO DROUGHT AND LOW WATER
   CONDITIONS


   Pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find that ongoing drought and low
   water conditions and weather patterns. have the potential to cause local adverse
   natural and economic disaster conditions in Klamath County. I find a need exists
   for statewide coordination of water resource conservation measures by municipal
   and other political subdivisions of this state in order to minimize problems caused
   by this severe shortage of water. Projected weather patterns are not expected to
   significantly alleviate these conditions and drought conditions are continuing.
   These conditions are expected to have significant economic impact on the affected
   basin’s agricultural, livestock, and natural resources.


   Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
   of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Office of
   Emergency Management.


   A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic
   security of the citizens and businesses of Klamath County, I am therefore declaring
   a “state of drought emergency” in Klamath County and directing the following
   activities;


   IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


           I.     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions
   resulting from drought and affecting agricultural recovery in the affected basin.


           If,    The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
   provide assistance and regulation for the affected basin as it determines is necessary
   in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


           Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
   assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in the affected basin.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 13 - 05
   PAGE TWO


          IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in the affected basin.


          ve      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2013.


          Done at Salem, Oregon this 18" day of April, 2013.




                                                  Jghn     A. Reape, MD.
                                                         OVERN


                                                  ATTEST:




                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
