Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-15


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
    THREAT OF WILDFIRE


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire danger
    situation. Much of the State is now in extreme fire danger and red flag warnings
    have been issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and thunderstorms. We have
    experienced wildfires this season that resulted in evacuations and threatened critical
    infrastructure and structures. Other parts of the country, including our neighboring
    states such as Washington, California, and Idaho, continue to experience similar
    fires and weather. The extended forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and
    dry conditions, resulting in imminent threat of fire over a broad area of the State.


    The Oregon Department of Forestry is heavily engaged in initial and extended
    attack and National Interagency Teams are currently deployed in Oregon. Regional
    compacts are also being utilized for the deployment of specific wildland fire
    resources to Oregon. New and existing fire threats elevate the need for immediate
    access to state resources including firefighting helicopters. This threat is not likely
    to recede in the near future. It is critically important that National Guard resources
    be positioned to expedite requested resources and respond effectively to these
    dangerous and dynamic conditions.


    Therefore, subject to the limitations described below, I hereby declare a statewide
    State of Emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfire.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    1,   A State of Emergency is declared.


    2.   All agencies of state government, including the Oregon National Guard, will
         utilize and employ state personnel, equipment and facilities for any and all
         activities as requested by the Oregon Department of Forestry and coordinated
         by the Oregon Office of Emergency Management. The Oregon National Guard
         will deploy and redeploy firefighting resource assets as needed throughout the
         remainder of the fire season based upon threat and resource shortfalls. All
         citizens are implored to heed the advice of emergency officials with regard to
         this emergency in order to protect their safety.


    3.   This determination of a wildfire emergency is statewide. It is not to be
         construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for
         other purposes, It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire
         management required by the emergency. Any local government requests for




                                                                                              ©
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-15
    PAGE TWO


         state resources must be submitted through county governing bodies to the
         Office of Emergency Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.

    4.   This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
         fire season ends, as determined by the Governor. This order shall expire on
         November 1, 2017, unless otherwise ordered by the Governor.

    5. This order was made by verbal proclamation at 12:27 pm on Wednesday the ond
         Day of August, 2017.


                                             ad
         Done at Salem, Oregon, this      2@¢ day of August, 2017.




                                                        Gti =
                                                     Kate Brown
                                                     GOVERNOR


                                                     ATTEST:




                                               Me
                                                aE ioe
                                                     Dennis Richardson
                                                     SECRETARY OF STATE
