Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 12-10


   ESTABLISHING THE OREGON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PREVENTION
   AND RESPONSE TASK FORCE

   Oregon, like most states across the nation, continues to see an increase in injuries
   and death due to domestic violence. Despite the many efforts aimed at preventing
   this violence and supporting its victims, domestic violence continues to be a public
   health and safety crisis in our communities.

   The effects of this violence on our families and communities are profound.
   Impacts include personal injury, homelessness, lost work time and productivity,
   alcohol and other drug abuse, increased health care costs, adverse impacts on
   children, and denial of victims’ basic human dignity. Too often, as we have seen
   repeatedly in Oregon, domestic violence can be lethal.

   Across Oregon, families, government agencies, schools, victim services advocates,
   communities, employers, public health and social service organizations are
   struggling to respond to this crisis.

   Domestic violence is one of the most complex and tragic challenges our society
   faces today. We must commit to identifying gaps that currently exist in our
   response to this public health and safety crisis. We must further create a plan to
   ensure that culturally appropriate best practice prevention and response methods are
   implemented, so that victims and children are protected and communities are safer.

   This Order creates the Oregon Domestic Violence Prevention and Response Task
   Force to engage stakeholders, to identify priorities, and to create and facilitate the
   implementation of a long term strategic plan to eradicate domestic violence in our
   state.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       1. The Oregon Domestic Violence Prevention Task Force (“Task Force”) is
          established.

       2.   The purpose of the Task Force shall be to:

               a.   Facilitate the coordination of the statewide response to domestic
                    violence including prevention activities;
               b.   Identify and address existing gaps in services and system response,
                    including disparate services for racial and ethnic minorities, Native
                    American and tribal members, and gay and transgender populations;
               c.   Improve the efficacy and efficiency of system response to domestic
                    violence;
               d.   Identify and implement best practices prevention strategies;
               e.   Provide leadership and serve as a forum to engage key stakeholders
                    in establishing goals, creating performance measures, supporting
                    implementation, and monitoring outcomes;
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 12-10
   PAGE TWO



             f.         Provide regular updates on the status of goals and outcomes to the
                        Governor’s Office and the Legislature;
             g.         Advise the Governor and the legislature on policy, Legislative, and
                        other changes necessary to implement prevention and response
                        strategies; and
             h.         Advocate for legislative, policy, and other changes necessary to
                        accomplish the Task Force’s charge.

      3.   The Task Force shall consist of 19 members. All members shall serve at
           the pleasure of their appointing authority. The Task Force shall include:

              a.        One member who is a non-profit victim services advocate from an
                        urban community, appointed by the Governor;
              b.        One member who is a non-profit victim services advocate from a
                        rural community, appointed by the Governor;
              c.        One member who is a non-profit children’s advocate, appointed by
                        the Governor;
              d.        Three members representing racial minorities, appointed by the
                        Governor;
              e.        Two members representing Oregon’s federally recognized tribes,
                        appointed by the Governor;
              f.        One member representing gay and transgender advocates,
                        appointed by the Governor;
              g.        One member who represents the civil legal services community,
                        appointed by the Governor;
              h.        One member representing District Attorneys in Oregon, appointed
                        by the Governor;
              .
                     One member of the public who is a survivor of domestic violence,
                     appointed by the Governor;




              oR port
                     The Attorney General or designee;
                     The director of the Bureau of Labor and Industries or designee;
                     The director of the Oregon Health Authority or designee
                   . The director of Oregon Housing and Community Services;
                     The director of the Department of Human Services;
                     One member of the state senate, appointed by the Senate President;
                     and
              3      One member of the state house, appointed by the House Speaker.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 12-10
   PAGE THREE



         During the first year of operation, the Task Force shall address the
         following topics with the intent of making recommendations to the
         Governor and the Legislature:

             a.       Adequacy and availability of services to racial and ethnic
                      minorities;


             (Se ee
                      Domestic violence in the workplace;
                      Teen dating violence; and
                      Availability and adequacy of services to minors (issues raised in SB
                      757, 2011 legislative session);

         Task Force shall also prioritize the findings and recommendations of the
         Oregon Domestic Violence Fatality Review Team in preparing
         recommendations for the Legislature. The Task Force shall coordinate
         recommendations with the work of the Attorney General’s Sexual Assault
         Task Force and the Batterers Intervention Task Force.

         Staff for the Task Force shall be provided by the Department of Human
         Services and the Oregon Health Authority.

         The Governor will appoint a Chair and Vice-Chair of the Task Force from
         the members of the Task Force. The Chair shall establish an agenda and
         provide leadership and direction. The Task Force shall meet at least 9
         times per year at the direction of the Chair or the Governor.

         The Chair may appoint and approve the creation of subcommittees as
         necessary to address the subject matter called for in this order. The Chair
         may, on behalf of the Governor, request participation of other persons in
         subcommittees to further the Task Force’s work.

         The Chair shall appoint members as necessary to serve as liaisons to other
         groups with related missions.

      10. A quorum for Task Force meetings shall consist of a majority of the
          appointed members. The Task Force shall strive to operate by consensus;
         however, the Task Force may approve measures and make
         recommendations based on an affirmative vote of a majority of members.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER 12-10
   PAGE FOUR



       11. The members of the Task Force shall receive no compensation for their
           activities as members of the Task Force.

       12. This Order shall expire December 31, 2014.



   Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2 2 day of June, 2012.




                                                 VERNOR y
                                             ATTEST:




                                                   cl
                                             Kate Brown
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE
