    Wires of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        ‘EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-03

        DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
        KLAMATH COUNTY AND CONTIGUOUS COUNTIES DUE TO
        DROUGHT AND EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS

        Pursuant to ORS 401.165 and 536.740, I find that ongoing drought and low water
        conditions and weather patterns exist and imminently threaten to cause local
        adverse natural and economic disaster conditions in Klamath County and the
        Oregon counties contiguous to Klamath County. Projected weather patterns are not
        expected to significantly alleviate these conditions and drought conditions are
        continuing. The United States Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation
        has determined that water shortages are likely during the upcoming 2010 irrigation
,       season and has issued notice that Klamath Project water is not available for use at
        this time. (See attached March 9, 2010 letter from Bureau of Reclamation Klamath
        Basin Area Manager Susan M. Fry) These conditions threaten significant
        economic loss to Klamath County and its contiguous Oregon counties’ agricultural,
        livestock, and natural resources.

        Current conditions are being addressed by state agencies including the Department
        of Agriculture, the Department of Water Resources, and Oregon Emergency
        Management.


        A timely response to this situation being vital to the well being and economic
        security of the citizens and businesses of Klamath County and its contiguous
        counties, I am therefore declaring a “state of drought emergency” in Klamath
        County and the Oregon counties contiguous to Klamath County and directing the
        following activities:

        IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

                1.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
        provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
        effect agricultural recovery in Klamath County and contiguous counties.

                 2.    The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to coordinate
        and provide assistance and regulation for Klamath County and contiguous counties
        as it determines is necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

                3.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
        assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
        projected conditions in Klamath County and contiguous counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 10-03
    PAGE TWO


           4.       All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
    affected political subdivisions in Klamath County and contiguous counties.

           5.      This Executive Order expires on Dgcember 31, 2010

                   Done at Salem, Oregon this AGy day of March, 2010.


                                                 Theodore R. Kulonggéki
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                 ATTEST:                      ,




                                             <<   8        ARY OF STATE




                                                                                            8
