Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 01

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    HARNEY, KLAMATH, LAKE, AND MALHEUR COUNTIES DUE TO
    DROUGHT AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS



    Pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry conditions,
    low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster
    conditions in the southeastern portion of the state. Projected forecasts are not
    expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions and the drought is having
    significant economic impacts on the affected counties’ agricultural, livestock, and
    natural resources.

    The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: Crops and agricultural
    and recreation investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
    surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
    greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
    agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
    Resources, and Oregon Office of Emergency Management.

    A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons
    and property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of the affected
    Counties, I am therefore declaring a state of drought emergency in Harney,
    Klamath, Lake, and Malheur Counties and directing the following activities;



    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

           1       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance in seeking federal resources available to mitigate conditions and
    affect agricultural recovery in the affected counties.

           Il.     The Department of Water Resources is directed to coordinate and
    provide assistance and regulation for the affected counties as it determines is
    necessary in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

           Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in the affected counties.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 14 - 01
   PAGE TWO


          IV.     All other departments are directed to coordinate with the above          |
   agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist
   affected political subdivisions in the affected counties.

          .       This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2014.


          Done at Salem, Oregon this U 3 day of February.




                                                  Kate Brown
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
