    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

       EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15-03

       DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
       CROOK, HARNEY, AND KLAMATH COUNTIES DUE TO DROUGHT,
       LOW SNOW PACK LEVELS, AND LOW WATER CONDITIONS


       At the request of Crook County (by Order 2015-15 dated March 18, 2015), Harney
       County (by Resolution 2015-03 dated March 18, 2015), and Klamath County (by
       Resolution 2015-0317 dated March 17, 2015), and based on the recommendations
-      of the Drought Council and the Water Availability Committee, and pursuant to
       ORS 401.165 and ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry conditions, low
       snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster
       conditions in Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties.


       Projected forecasts are not expected to alleviate the severe drought conditions, and
       the drought is having significant economic impacts on agriculture, livestock, and
       natural resources in Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties.


       The dry conditions present hardships for these communities: crops, agricultural and
       recreational investments are at risk; animals and plants that rely on Oregon’s
       surface water supplies are threatened; and the risk of wildfires across the state is
       greatly increased. Current conditions are being monitored and analyzed by state
       agencies including the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Water
       Resources, and the Oregon Office of Emergency Management.


       A timely response to the severe drought conditions is vital to the safety of persons,
       property and economic security of the citizens and businesses of Crook, Harney,
       and Klamath Counties. I am therefore declaring that a severe, continuing drought
       emergency exists in Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties, and directing the
       following actions.


       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:

              I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
       provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
       assist in agricultural recovery in Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties.

              I.      The Department of Water Resources and the Water Resources
       Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in
       Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties as the Department and Commission
       determine deem necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
       536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 15 - 03                                                                   |
    PAGE TWO



           Ill.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
    assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
   projected conditions in Crook, Harney, and Klamath Counties.

           IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
    agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as determined essential to assist ________.
    affected political subdivisions and water users in Crook, Harney, and Klamath
    Counties.

           Vv.     This executive Order expires on December 31, 2015.
                                       +h
       Done at Salem, Oregon, this lo~ day of April, 2015.




                                                 KATE BROWN
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                 ATTEST:




                                                 Geanne Atkins
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
