Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-14


    DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN OREGON TO FA-
    CILITATE ECLIPSE PREPAREDNESS AND READINESS


    ORS 401.165 et seg. empowers the Governor to declare a state of emergency upon
    determining that an emergency is imminent. ORS 402.105 et seq. facilities the
    sharing of resources between states when an emergency is declared.

    I find that a Total Solar Eclipse occurring on August 21, 2017, is likely to cause a
    rapid influx of visitors from outside this State and substantial movement of Orego-
    nians from one part of this State to another, within and proximate to the eclipse’s
    Path of Totality. This unprecedented movement of people through our State could
    will likely make major roads impassable and could exceed our State’s capacity to
    handle health and safety emergencies. Because this event is now imminent, I find
    it is prudent to and therefore do declare a state of emergency pursuant to the above-
    referenced statutes.


    This declaration will enable agencies to request assistance from other jurisdictions
    to facilitate the life and safety missions the agencies may undertake during the To-
    tal Solar Eclipse. This declaration further enables me to authorize state agencies to
    suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if strict compliance with the
    provisions of the order or rule would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay mitigat-
    ing the effects of the emergency.


    This declaration is intended to enhance and complement, not supplant, Executive
    Order 17-13.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


        1.   Having found that an emergency is imminent, a state of emergency is de-
             clared, This declaration covers the entirety of the State of Oregon,
       2.    The Oregon Office of Emergency Management and the Oregon National
             Guard shall work with other states where needed to facilitate the utilization
             of interstate mutual aid and EMAC. The Oregon Office of Emergency
             Management and the Oregon National Guard shall coordinate as needed
             with other states to request and receive life and safety resources such as
             MEDEVAC Helicopter(s) in Oregon to support the 2017 Total Solar
             Eclipse.
        3.   The Oregon Health Authority shall immediately exercise its authority to en-
             sure that there are adequate emergency medical services during the Total
             Solar Eclipse by entering into agreement(s) or contract(s) with any ambu-
             lance services within the State or in other states.




                                                                                             &
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 17-14
    PAGE TWO


      4, State agencies may suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if
         strict compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would in any way
         prevent, hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the Total Solar Eclipse.
      5. This order shall be in effect until August 24, 2017, and shall thereafter ex-
         pire, unless terminated sooner by the Governor.

         Done at Salem, Oregon, this (4 Yay of August, 2017.




                                                  ie
                                                KateBrown
                                                GOVERNOR

                                                ATTEST:




                                                 ennis Richardson
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
