Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 16-05


   OREGON SMALL BUSINESS ADVISORY CABINET


   In 2015, more than 40,000 new jobs were added in Oregon, growth that is a full
   percentage point higher than the national average. The continued development of
   Oregon’s businesses is a key to sustaining this level of growth. Seventy percent of
   new jobs are created when existing Oregon businesses expand; state government
   adds value to the overall economic enterprise when it bolsters the services available
   to small business owners and emerging entrepreneurs, thus fostering growth.


   For the expenditures of state resources to be effective, they must reflect the ever-
   changing landscape of entrepreneurship in Oregon. Addressing the needs of
   traditionally underserved communities and geographically remote areas is
   imperative to laying the groundwork for a strong economy for future generations.


   It is essential that Oregon’s entrepreneurial and small business communities be         |
   engaged when decisions are made by the state government on how to improve
   services and maintain job growth statewide.


   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1.   The Oregon Small Business Advisory Cabinet (the “Cabinet”) is
            established.


      2.    The Cabinet consists of small business owners, state government officials,
            and representatives of the financial community appointed by the Governor.


      3.    The Cabinet shall develop recommendations on three priorities:


               a.   How state government can further the support and promotion of
                    small business owners and prospective entrepreneurs.


               b.   How state government can increase access to capital.


               c.   How state government can streamline regulations to help small
                    business owners and prospective entrepreneurs navigate the myriad
                    laws and policies of state government.


      4.    The Cabinet will meet every other month beginning in March 2016.


      5.    The Cabinet will deliver recommendations to the Governor by October 1,
            2016.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 16-05
   PAGE TWO


     6.   Work on projects or special assignments at the request of the Governor’s
          Office.


     7.   Cabinet members shall receive no compensation for their services, or
          reimbursement for their expenses incurred in the performance of their
          duties.


     8.   This Order shall expire on October 31, 2016.                               ;   |


                                      ay   dh
          Done at Salem, Oregon, this Je day of January, 2016.



                                                   (up hae
                                                         —
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                                                          |
                                                 GOVERNOR

                                                 ATTEST:




                                                “Jeanne P. Atkins
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
