Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-06

    ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EARLY CHILDHOOD MATTERS
    ADVISORY COUNCIL

    The foundation for Gregon’s future begins with early childhood education.
    Providing a full spectrum of supports for the development of children and youth is
    of paramount importance to our future success. Oregon’s children and families
    need quality, supportive, and engaged experiences from birth through school entry
    for young children to reach their optimum development for success in school and in
    life. Since the Governor’s Summit on Early Childhood in March 2008, and through
    the funding of a State Early Head Start program, Oregon has worked to elevate the
    visibility and importance of early childhood issues.


    Pursuant to the “Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007,”
    Governors are required to designate or appoint a council to serve as the State
    Advisory Council on Early Childhood Education and Care for children from birth
    to school entry. This Order designates the Early Childhood Matters Advisory
    Council to serve as the State Advisory Council.


    Leadership of Oregon’s early childhood system is shared primarily by four state
    agencies: the State Commission on Children and Families, the Department of
    Education, the Employment Department, and the Department of Human Services.
    The creation of an Early Childhood Matters Advisory Council will give Oregon a
    way to approach early childhood issues in a unified and comprehensive manner.
    The Council will give direction and oversight for interagency coordination; assist
    the State in implementing statutory early childhood guidelines; and provide
    valuable guidance and advice to the Governor regarding the early childhood system
    and services.



    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

           1.       The Early Childhood Matters Advisory Council (ECMAC) is
    established. The ECMAC is designated as the Oregon State Advisory Council on
    Early Education and Care for children from birth to school entry, as required by
    Section 11(b) of the Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007.

           2.      The ECMAC membership shall consist of community leaders,
    representing Oregon’s diverse populations, with expertise in advocacy, early
    childhood research, business and industry, early childhood systems development,
    design and provision of early childhood services. The ECMAC membership shall
    include:


           a.       One member appointed by the President of the Senate from among
                    members of the Senate;




                                                                                         ne
Wiis of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-06
    PAGE TWO


         b.   One member appointed by the Speaker of the House of
              Representatives from among members of the House of
              Representatives;
              A representative from the Child Care Division of the Oregon
              Employment Department, appointed by the Governor;
              A representative from the division responsible for §619 of part C of
              the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. §1419,
              1431 et seq.) of the Oregon Department of Education appointed by
              the Governor;
              A representative from the Oregon Community College System
              appointed by the Governor;
              A representative from Oregon University System appointed by the
              Governor;
              A representative of local providers of early childhood education and
              development services, appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of local educational agencies appointed by the
              Governor;
              A tepresentative(s) from Head Start, which may include migrant,
              seasonal, or Indian Head Start programs, appointed by the Governor;
              The State Director of Head Start Collaboration, appointed by the
              Governor;
              A representative from the State agency responsible for health or
              mental health care, appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of the Oregon Commission on Children and
              Families, appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of the research community working on early
              childhood data, appointed by the Governor;
              Two representatives of the early childhood consumer community,
              appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of the business community, appointed by the
              Governor;
              A representative of the private foundation community with
              demonstrated interest in children from birth to school entry,
              appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of child advocacy agencies whose focus is children
              from birth to school entry, appointed by the Governor;
              A representative of migrant and seasonal farm worker families
              whose focus is children from birth to school entry, appointed by the
              Governor;
              A representative of the dental community whose focus is children
              from birth to school entry, appointed by the Governor;
Wiires of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10 -06
    PAGE THREE


           t.      A representative from the medical community whose focus is
                   children from birth to school entry, appointed by the Governor;
           u.      A representative from the nine federally recognized Oregon Tribes,
                   whose focus is children from birth to school entry, appointed by the
                   Governor;
           v.      A representative of the mental health community whose focus is
                   children from birth to school entry, appointed by the Governor;
           w.      A representative from the Oregon Department of Human Services,
                   appointed by the Governor;
           x.      A representative of the Governor’s Office, appointed by the
                   Governor; and
           y.      Any other representatives the Governor deems appropriate.

           3.      Members shall serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority.
    The terms of each appointment shall be three years. Initial terms shall be
    proportionately staggered to periods of one, two and three years. Members may be
    reappointed.


           4,      The Governor will appoint the Chair and Vice-Chair of the ECMAC
    from its membership. The Chair is responsible for setting the agenda and
    coordinating its activities. The ECMAC shall meet at the call of the Chair.

            5.      The ECMAC will provide state leadership on issues related to early
    childhood development and education for children frem birth through school entry
    and their families through investment planning, advocacy, and advice to decision
    makers based on the most recent research on effective best practices and strategies.
    The ECMAC will provide advice to the Governor on early childhood priorities and
    strategies. The ECMAC will review research, expert opinion, and public input to
    develop a statewide strategic plan for achieving the vision articulated in the Early
    Childhood Matters Framework created as a result of the Governor’s Early
    Childhood Matters Initiative in 2008.


           6.      In addition to any other responsibilities designated by the Governor,
    the ECMAC shall:


                   a.     Conduct periodic statewide needs assessments on the quality
                          and availability of early childhood education and
                          development programs and services, including an assessment
                          of the availability of quality pre-kindergarten services for
                          low-income children;




                                                                                           He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10 -06
    PAGE FOUR


                   b.        Identify opportunities for, and barriers to, collaboration
                             among federally and state-funded child development, child
                             care, and early childhood education programs and services,
                             including collaboration among administering agencies;
                   c.        Recommend ways to increase the participation of children —
                             especially underrepresented and special populations — in
                             existing federal, state, and local child care and early
                        ’    childhood education programs;
                   d.        Recommend ways to establish a unified data collection
                             system for public early childhood education and
                             development programs and services;
                   e.        Recommend ways to create statewide professional
                             development and career advancement plans for early
                             childhood educators;
                   f.        Assess the capacity and effectiveness of two- and four-year
                             public and private institutions of higher education in the
                             State to support the professional and career development of
                             early childhood educators, including the opportunity to
                             spend time in a Head Start or pre-kindergarten program; and
                   g.        Recommend ways to improve State early learning standards
                             and develop high-quality comprehensive early learning
                             standards.


           7.      Periodically, the ECMAC shall hold public hearings and provide an
    opportunity for public comment on the issues described above.


           8.      On or before July 15, 2010, the ECMAC shall submit a Statewide
    Strategic Report (Report), addressing the assessments and recommendations
    described above to the State Director of Head Start Collaboration and the
    Governor, After submission of the Report, the ECMAC shall meet periodically to
    review implementation of the recommendations in the Report and any changes in
    State and local needs.


           9.      The ECMAC shal assist, as requested, with preparation of Oregon’s
    three-year plan and application for a U.S. Department of Education grant, under
    Section 11(b) of the Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007. In
    addition to such information as may be required by the Secretary of Education, the
    application will include:


                   a.        The Report discussed above;




                                                                                           ee
Wiis of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10-06
    PAGE FIVE


                   b.     A description of the ECMAC responsibilities under this
                          Executive Order;
                   c.     A description, for each fiscal year, of how the State will
                          make effective use of federal funds to create an early
                          childhood education and care system, consistent with the
                          Report;
                   d.     A description of Oregon’s early learning standards and goals
                          for increasing the number of children entering kindergarten
                          ready to learn;
                   e.     Information identifying the agency, joint interagency office,
                          or individual, designated to carry out the activities under this
                          Section; and
                   f.     A description of how the State plans to sustain activities
                          under this paragraph beyond the federal grant period.

           10.     With the exception of the two early childhood consumer community
    members, the members of the ECMAC shall not be entitled to the reimbursement
    of expenses or per diem. Early childhood consumer participants may be
    reimbursed for travel expenses incurred in attending ECMAC business pursuant to
    ORS 292.495(2), subject to availability of funds.


           11.     This Order shall expire on August 31, 2013.


    Done at Salem, Oregon this XH Ae May, 2010.


                                             <r                             Pe
                                                 Theodore R. Kulchgotiy/
                                                 GOVERNOR



                                                 ATTEST:




                                                        AB
                                                         em —
                                                 Kate Brown
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                             fescue
