Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-01


    ESTABLISHING THE GOVERNOR’S COUNCIL ON WILDFIRE
    RESPONSE


    Wildfires have increased in intensity and severity in the past decade, threatening
    our safety, health, water security, economic security, environment, and well-being.
    Proactive, ecologically responsible forest treatments in high-risk areas are critical
    to mitigating catastrophic wildfire risk and related costs to communities,
    economies, and the environment.


    In Oregon, when wildfire does occur, initial attack has successfully held more than
    95% of fires to small acreage. The ability to detect a fire when it sparks and
    address it is a critical component for mitigating the effects of wildfire season each
    year. With advancement in technology, there may be newer methods to improve
    our initial attack responses.


    Still, there will be times a wildfire starts in too remote a location, or spreads too
    quickly, and a major wildfire will occur. There are numerous federal, state, and
    local agencies that coordinate to fight fires. Key federal agencies include the
    United States Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the United States
    Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Park Service, and the Bureau of Indian
    Affairs. Within the state, the Oregon Department of Forestry responds using its
    own resources, as well as relying on agreements with forest landowners, private
    contractors, partner states and Canadian provinces, and the Oregon National Guard.
    The Oregon State Fire Marshal also organizes and sends Incident Management
    Teams (comprised of employees from fire agencies around the state) when certain
    conditions are met and the Governor issues a declaration pursuant to the
    Emergency Conflagration Act (ORS 476.510 ef seq.). Wildfire suppression efforts
    are funded through a variety of mechanisms including an insurance policy with
    Lloyd’s of London, the Forest Patrol Assessment and Forest Land Protection Fund
    (paid for in part or in whole, respectively, by private forest landowners), state
    general fund dollars, and federal emergency dollars.


    The type of response an agency or agencies will utilize, as well as the type of
    equipment and personnel that is deployed on a particular incident, is the product of
    several factors. The Northwest Coordination Center plays an important role in
    assisting with interagency resource coordination, logistics support, aviation
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-01
    PAGE TWO


    support, and predictive services for all agencies. The equipment owned and
    managed by agencies within the state—as well as the companies with whom
    agencies have contracts—also informs these decisions. It may be advantageous for
    the state to make additional capital investments in fire-fighting equipment and
    personnel to meet the various geographical and ecological challenges our state’s
    regions can present during wildfire season.


    In addition to those lands protected by a federal, state, local, or tribal government,
    there are also hundreds of thousands of acres in Oregon that are considered
    “unprotected” because private land owners do not pay taxes for fire coverage.
    Some of those areas have created Rangeland Fire Protection Associations
    supported by the Oregon Department of Forestry, but because our fire seasons will
    get worse, it is important we discuss the costs versus the benefits of allowing
    portions of Oregon’s land to remain under- or unprotected.


    We know from the last several wildfire seasons that systems must be in place to
    protect our citizens from the smoke caused by wildfires. First, Oregonians most
    vulnerable to dangerous air quality must be quickly identified and appropriate
    resources must be used to protect them. Second, a sufficient number of smoke-free
    shelters need to be provided, and all citizens must be properly educated about how
    to find relief from the smoke. Finally, smoke has had an economic impact on our
    tourist and agricultural industries, necessitating resilience efforts when air quality
    remains poor for extended periods of time.


    Even after the flames are out, wildfires have a lasting effect on our state’s regions
    and industries. In each instance, the Governor’s Regional Solutions Team is
    prepared to respond—by bringing together local, state, and federal agencies, and by
    coordinating crucial recovery project efforts, such as the provision of insurance
    information and Small Business Association loans. Although each wildfire and the
    region affected have unique characteristics, a systematic approach ensures the right
    agencies respond efficiently and effectively.


    Each wildfire season presents new challenges. Changes in climate—including
    increased temperatures, changing precipitation patterns, decreased winter
    snowpack, and increasingly prevalent droughts and heat waves—mean that wildfire
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-01
    PAGE THREE


    season is starting earlier, burning hotter, and lasting longer each year. As a result,
    we must proactively review our systems to determine whether our current models
    are sustainable, require enhancement, or require a different approach to minimize
    fire impacts.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1.   The Governor’s Council on Wildfire Response (“Council”) is hereby
             established.


       2.    The-Council shall review Oregon’s current model for wildfire prevention,
             preparedness and response, analyzing whether or not the current model is
             sustainable given our increasing wildfire risks. Topics to be considered
             include, but are not limited to:
                 a.   Funding for wildfire response;
                b.    Response to fires on protected, under-protected, and unprotected
                      lands;
                 c.   Wildfire smoke;
                 d.   Assisting communities affected by wildfires;
                 e.   Prevention, treatment and cost containment of wildfires.


        3.   Ifthe Council finds, after a review, that some or all of the current models
             are not sufficient to ensure Oregon is prepared for increasingly severe
             wildfire seasons, the Council shall develop recommendations to strengthen,
             improve, or replace existing systems, and to implement its findings. The
             recommendations shall be presented to the Governor no later than
             September 30, 2019.


       4.    The Council shall consist of no fewer than thirteen members appointed by
             the Governor, including leaders of rural and urban communities across
             Oregon who are affected by wildfire, and experts who understand critical
             issues including the following: health and safety risks posed by wildfire;
             direct and indirect economic impacts of wildfire; environmental and cultural
             implications of wildfire; and risks to vital infrastructure, including power,
             water, labor, and transportation.




                                                                                             &
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-01
    PAGE FOUR


      5.   Ex-officio members of the Council shall include:
               a.    Two members of the Oregon State Senate, one from the majority
                     party and one from the minority party, designated by the Senate
                     President and Senate Minority Leader, respectively;
               b.    Two members of the Oregon House of Representatives, one from
                     the majority party and one from the minority party, designated by
                     the Speaker of the House and House Minority Leader, respectively;
                     The Oregon State Forester or his designee;
               Q2o
                     The Oregon State Fire Marshal or his designee;
                     A liaison from the Oregon Board of Forestry;
               ho
                     A representative from the Oregon Health Authority — Public Health
                     Division.


      6.   The Governor shall also appoint the chair of the Council, who shall provide
           leadership and direction to the Council. The chair shall establish an agenda,
           work plan, budget, and timeline for the Council. The chair may appoint and
           approve the creation of subcommittees of the Council. The chair may, on
           behalf of the Governor, convene additional advisory committees for
           purposes of informing Council findings and recommendations.
           Subcommittees and advisory committees may include members of the
           Council as well as non-appointed individuals with interest or expertise in
           the topic being considered.


      7. A quorum for the Council meetings shall consist of a majority of the
           appointed members.


      8.   The Oregon Department of Forestry shall provide staff support to the
           Council. All other state agencies shall provide assistance to the Council
           upon request.



      9,   The members of the Council shall not receive per diem for their activities as
           members of the Council, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in
           attending Council business pursuant to ORS 292.495(2), subject to
           availability of funds.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 19-01
    PAGE FIVE


      10. This order shall remain in effect until the recommendations of the Council
         are considered and acted upon by the Oregon Legislature, unless the
         Governor requests that the Council’s work continue beyond that time.



         Done at Medford, Oregon, this 30" of January, 2019.




                                             Aa from
                                               Kate Brown
                                               GOVERNOR


                                             ’ ATTEST:




                                                          es



                                               Dennis Richatdson
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
