Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-31


    ESTABLISHING THE OREGON BROADBAND OFFICE


    Whereas, broadband constitutes critical infrastructure for the prosperity of all
    Oregonians, especially Oregon’s rural and underserved communities; and


    Whereas, broadband is increasingly vital for the conduct of commerce, the
    economic vitality of communities, and Oregon’s global competitiveness; and


    Whereas, access to broadband levels the playing field, facilitates social mobility,
    and stimulates job creation; and


    Whereas, broadband enables and is indeed vital to the delivery of education, health
    care, and other critical services; and


    Whereas, it is the goal of this State to promote access to broadband services for all
    Oregonians in order to improve the economy and quality of life,


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    1.   The Oregon Broadband Office is created within the Oregon Business
         Development Department.


    2.   The Oregon Broadband Office shall:


         e   Advocate for the adoption of public policies that remove barriers to and
             support broadband infrastructure deployment to close the continuing digital
             divide;


         e   Develop broadband investment and deployment strategies for unserved and
             underserved areas;


         e   Promote and coordinate private sector, public sector, and cooperative
             broadband solutions;


         e   Support and promote local and regional broadband planning;


         e   Pursue and leverage federal sources of broadband funding to achieve state
             broadband goals;
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-31
    PAGE TWO


         e   Manage and award funds allocated to the office for broadband projects;


         e   Engage with stakeholders, elected officials, government officials, tribal
             governments, healthcare providers, educators, businesses, the agriculture
             sector, public safety entities, community leaders, and broadband service
             providers to facilitate communication and aggregate the demand of the
             different segments of the community to help make a business case for
             broadband investment;


         e   Develop and maintain a broadband map as a platform for data collection to
             track the availability of broadband services and measure progress, as well as
             other related information, and provide public access to the data;


         e   Support and coordinate efforts with the Oregon Broadband Advisory
             Council.


    3.   The Oregon Broadband Office shall consist of a telecommunications strategist
         and such other personnel as the Oregon Business Development Department or
         the Legislative Assembly shall commit.


    4.   State agencies determined by the Governor’s office to have operations and
         missions relevant to expanding broadband access shall coordinate with the
         Oregon Broadband Office in support of that Office’s mission.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this ! day of December, 2018.



                                                   Kate Brown
                                                               —
                                                        fet. bpm
                                                    GOVERNOR




                                                    ATTEST:
                                                                /        =




                                                    Dennis Richardson
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Recycled
                                                                                             Matoriais
