Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-25


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    GILLIAM COUNTY DUE TO LOW STREAMFLOW AND HOT, DRY
    CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflows and hot, dry
    conditions are likely to cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Gilliam
    County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
    2018.


    Drought conditions have persisted all season, including hot dry conditions
    throughout the region, wildland fires, reduced streamflow, and minimal
    precipitation. The forecast continues for warmer than normal temperatures and
    lower than normal precipitation. These conditions are having significant economic
    impacts on dryland and irrigated agricultural lands, natural resources, recreational,
    and tourism economies in Gilliam County.


    Conditions are being monitored by the state’s natural resource and public safety
    agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and timely response to drought are vital to the health and safety of
    persons, property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of
    Gilliam County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency         |
    exists in Gilliam County.                                                               |


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       [       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and           |
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Gilliam County.


       IME     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Gilliam County as the Department and Commission determine
               is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
               536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 18-25
    PAGE TWO




      III.   | The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
              assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
              current and projected conditions in Gilliam County.


      IV.     Allother state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Gilliam County.


              This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2018.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this   ae    day of September, 2018.




                                                Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR




                                                ATTEST:




                                                Dennis Richardson
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                        Ne
