Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-06


     PRESERVING STUDENT INSTRUCTIONAL TIME


     WHEREAS, the State of Oregon ranks 48th in the nation in reading and 49th in
     mathematics at fourth grade, outcomes that threaten the future success of Oregon
     students; and


     WHEREAS, Oregon ranks 47th in the nation in instructional time requirements,
     5% below the national average, providing fewer hours of direct student contact
     time learning than other states, which limits opportunities for students to engage in
     consistent high-quality instruction; and


     WHEREAS, research shows increased instructional time when paired with
     effective teaching practices is positively associated with improved educational
     outcomes; and


     WHEREAS, studies find social, emotional and behavioral benefits from increasing
     student contact time; and


     WHEREAS, budgetary pressures are causing school districts to consider reducing
     student instructional time, which will further erode student learning opportunities
     and deepen existing gaps in academic achievement; and


     WHEREAS, it is the responsibility of the State and the Superintendent of Public
     Instruction to ensure all Oregon students have access to sufficient, high-quality
     instructional time to achieve grade level proficiency and long-term school and life
     success; and

     WHEREAS, the State Board of Education in establishing policy for the
     administration and operation of public elementary and secondary schools shall
     consider best practices to meet the needs of students and an efficient elementary
     and secondary school system; and


     WHEREAS, there is currently no statewide policy or directive that explicitly
     addresses the preservation of student instructional time or prohibits its reduction
     when school districts consider adjustments to instructional hours.


     NOW, THEREFORE, I, TINA KOTEK, Governor of the State of Oregon and
     the Oregon Superintendent of Public Instruction, by virtue of the power and
     authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the State of Oregon, do
     hereby issue this order to become effective immediately:
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-06
     PAGE TWO



     IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1. The Oregon Department of Education (ODE) shall request the State Board of
          Education (SBE) immediately initiate emergency rulemaking that prioritizes
          and preserves current student instructional time to ensure that time is not
          reduced further than the current level at the time the Executive Order
         becomes effective.


       2. ODE shall communicate to any school district that has adopted or
          implemented a reduction in student instructional time for the 2025-26 or
          2026-27 school year prior to the effective date of this Executive Order that
          within 90 days of the effective date of this Order said school district shall
          submit a plan to ODE detailing how the district will restore student
          instructional time to no less than 2024-25 levels no later than the beginning of
         the 2027-28 school year.


       3. Definitions:
            a. “Student Instructional Time” means the total hours students are at
               school, bell-to-bell, including recess, lunch, passing time, and hours of
               instructional time.


            b. “Hours ofInstructional Time” in Oregon Administrative Rule means
               the hours Oregon students spend in planned learning activities or
               assessments under the supervision of a licensed or registered teacher or
               supervised educational assistant, requiring 900 hours (K-8), 990 hours
               (grades 9-11), and 966 hours (grade 12) annually.

       4, Requirements:
            a. Minimum Time Expectations: Oregon school districts commit to
               ensuring that student instructional time is not reduced further than the
               current level at the time the Executive Order becomes effective.

            b. Prohibition on Time Waivers: Effective immediately, ODE is
               prohibited from granting or renewing waivers that allow schools to
               operate below the current minimum hours of instructional time
               requirement under Oregon Administrative Rule, including Division 22,
               except where required in the case of declared national or state disaster
               or public health emergency.




                                                                                             HiIe
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


      EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-06
     PAGE THREE




             c. Restoration of Previously Reduced Student Instructional Time:
                Plans for restoring reduced student instructional time shall include clear
                timelines, specific actions, and accountability measures ensuring the
                full restoration of student instructional time. Ifa district, at the direction
                of their board, chooses not to restore lost student instructional time, the
                district must publicly explain their justification for that choice. ODE
                shall review, approve, and monitor these plans to ensure compliance
                with this Order.


             d. Revision of Hours ofInstructional Time Definitions Under Division
                22: ODE shall request the SBE to initiate emergency rulemaking
                leading to permanent rules that rescind provisions under Division 22
                that permit school districts to count up to 30 hours of staff professional
                development time and 30 hours of parent-teacher conferences toward
                required hours of instructional time. The revised rule shall ensure that
                hours ofinstructional time requirements reflect actual student-teacher
                classroom engagement time.


       5. Monitoring: ODE shall track and publish once a year the student
          instructional time of Oregon’s school districts.


     The Order shall remain in effect until the actions set forth above are implemented
     or Governor directs otherwise.


     Done at Salem, Oregon, this (Ie day of April, 2026.



                                                      Of [Ae
                                                    Tina Kotek
                                                    GOVERNOR



                                                    ATTEST:




                                                    Tobias Read
                                                    SECRETARY OF STATE
