Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-23

   DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
   JACKSON COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW STREAMFLOW AND
   HOT, DRY CONDITIONS


   Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low water supply conditions have
   caused natural and economic disaster conditions in Jackson County, resulting in a
   severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during 2020.


   Drought conditions arrived early and have persisted, including reduced snowpack, _
   precipitation, and subsequent minimal streamflow. The long-term forecast for the
   region continues for warmer than normal temperatures and lower than normal
   precipitation. These conditions have had significant economic impact on
   agriculture, timber, and recreational industries in Jackson County.


   Conditions continue to be monitored by the state’s natural resource and public
   safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
   Office of Emergency Management.


   Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
   property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of Jackson
   County. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in
   Jackson County.


   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


      I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
              provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
              conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Jackson County.


      I.      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Jackson County as the Department and Commission determine
              is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
              536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-23
   PAGE TWO




     Ill.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Jackson County.


     IV.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Jackson County.


     V.     This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.


     Done at Salem, Oregon, this 1‘ day of May, 2020.




                                        Ket. Leow
                                                —
                                      Kate Brown
                                      GOVERNOR




                                      ATTEST:




                                 (Ces
                                      Bev Clarno
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE
