Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-17


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
    THREAT OF WILDFIRE


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165 ef seq., I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire
    danger situation. Much of the state continues to experience high temperatures,
    wind, storms with dry lightning, and persistent drought. We have experienced
    wildfires this season that resulted in evacuations, threatened critical infrastructure,
    homes and other structures. Our neighboring states of Washington, California,
    Nevada, and Idaho, continue to experience similar fires and weather. The extended
    climate forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and dry conditions, resulting in
    imminent threat of fire over a broad area of the State.

    The Oregon Department of Forestry is heavily engaged in initial and extended
    wildfire attack and Incident Management Teams are currently deployed in Oregon.
    New and existing fire threats elevate the need to prepare for access to state
    resources including firefighting aircraft. This threat is not likely to recede in the
    near future. It is critically important that state resources like the National Guard be
    prepared to expedite requested resources and respond effectively to these dangerous
    and dynamic conditions, if requested.


    Therefore, I hereby declare a statewide state of emergency due to the imminent and
    ongoing threat of wildfire.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

    1. All agencies of the state government will utilize and employ state personnel,
       equipment, and facilities for any and all activities as requested by the Oregon
       Department of Forestry and the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal and
       coordinated by the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to respond
       to or mitigate the effects of the wildfire emergency, as described in the state’s
       Emergency Operations Plan. The Oregon National Guard will deploy and
       redeploy firefighting resources as needed and in accordance with Operations
       Agreement Smokey 2022 throughout the remainder of the fire season based
       upon threat and resource shortfalls. All individuals are to heed the advice of
       emergency officials with regard to this emergency in order to protect their
       safety.


    2. This determination of a wildfire emergency is statewide. It is not to be
       construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for
       other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire




                                                                                              Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-17
    PAGE TWO




        management required by the emergency, to request assistance through the
        Emergency Management Assistance Compact if needed, and to allow state
        agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if strict
        compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would in any way prevent,
        hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the wildfire emergency. Any local
        government requests for state resources must be submitted through county
        governing bodies to the Department of Emergency Management pursuant to
        ORS Chapter 401.


   3.   This order was made by verbal proclamation at 8:30 p.m. on August 27, 2022.


   4.   This order shall remain in effect until the earlier of November 1, 2022, or the
        date when the threat is significantly relieved or the fire season ends, as
        determined by the Governor.


        Done at Salem, Oregon, this 28th day of August, 2022.




                                                     Kt. Gor—
                                                   Kate Brown
                                                   GOVERNOR


                                                   ATTEST:




                                                    Sate
                                                   Shemia Fagan
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                          Contains
                                                                                          Recycled
                                                                                          Matertats
