Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-13


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    LINCOLN COUNTY.


    At the request of Lincoln County (through Lincoln County Board of
    Commissioners Order No. 07-25-283 dated July 2, 2025), and based on the
    recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and input from the Water
    Supply Availability Committee dated July 9, 2025, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I
    find that severe drought conditions as well as above normal temperature, below
    normal precipitation, groundwater and soil moisture conditions and declining
    streamflows have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in
    Lincoln County.


    The seasonal climate outlook forecasts that below normal precipitation will persist
    and therefore drought conditions in Lincoln County, including record low flow
    conditions in some streams, are unlikely to improve in the near-term. Drought is
    likely to have a significant economic impact on the agricultural and livestock,
    natural resources, recreation and tourism sectors in Lincoln County as well as
    increase early onset fire risk.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Lincoln County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

        IL      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Lincoln County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-13
    PAGE TWO



      IM,   The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
            users in Lincoln County as the Department and Commission determine
            necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

      I.    The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.


      IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Lincoln County.


            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Lincoln County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2025.


            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 10" day of July, 2025.




                                             a—fOE
                                              Tina Kotek
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              ATES:
                                                                  J




                                                            Gil
                                              Tobias Read
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    Hl
