Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66

    RISK AND SAFETY FRAMEWORK: COUNTY-BY-COUNTY METRICS-
    BASED APPROACH TO CONTROLLING COVID-19 TRANSMISSION TO
    CONSERVE HOSPITAL CAPACITY AND PROTECT HUMAN HEALTH
    AND HUMAN LIVES

    Since January 2020, the State of Oregon has been engaged in responding to the
    public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19). As the
    threat escalated, the State’s response elevated to meet the threat. On March 8,
    2020, I declared a state of emergency pursuant to ORS 401.165 et seq., and
    directed certain immediate response actions. Thereafter, the World Health
    Organization declared that the COVID-19 outbreak is a global pandemic, and the
    President of the United States declared the COVID-19 outbreak a national
    emergency.



    During March and April 2020, as COVID-19 continued to spread around the world,
    I took a series of actions aimed at slowing the spread of the virus, and to mitigate
    the public health and economic impacts of the pandemic. On March 23, 2020, I
    ordered Oregonians to “Stay Home, Save Lives,” directing individuals to stay home
    to the greatest extent possible, ordering the closure of specified retail businesses,
    requiring physical distancing measures for other public and private facilities, and
    imposing requirements for outdoor areas and licensed childcare.

    Those actions helped prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 in Oregon, and
    increased the state’s preparedness to live with this virus until a vaccine or cure is
    widely available. Following the success of these early measures, in late April and
    early May 2020, I began to take steps to ease the restrictions that had been imposed
    in March and April. I signed executive orders directing the state to begin a data-
    driven, phased reopening.

    This reopening process has been gradual and cautious, and has not been linear. In
    response to rising case numbers during the summer, I imposed additional measures,
    including face-covering requirements for individuals. Outbreaks and community
    spread in certain counties also have required us to reimpose restrictions at times, to
    maintain public health and safety. Even before the current surge in cases, it was
    clear that continued work was necessary to bring transmission levels down to levels
    that allow K-12 schools across the state to reopen for in-person instruction, among
    other critical priorities.

    Over the past nine months, due to these measures and the collective sacrifices and
    hard work of Oregonians, Oregon has fared better than many other states when it
    comes to the health impacts of COVID-19. Both our case numbers and our fatality
    rate have been lower than the national average. This has real impacts. Put simply,
    the protective measures we have implemented, combined with the hard work and
    sacrifice of Oregonians, have saved lives.

    However, this pandemic remains very dangerous even in Oregon. As of today,
    there have been at least 78,160 cases and 953 deaths in Oregon, with more than
    13,000,000 cases and more than 269,000 deaths from COVID-19 nationwide.




                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE TWO



    And right now, in Oregon, like the rest of the country, new cases of COVID-19 are
    spiking at an alarming rate, as we enter cold and flu season, as the weather turns
    and grows colder, and as Oregonians spend more time indoors. We have gone
    from seeing around 200-300 cases a day in September, to more than 1,000 cases a
    day in November. These cases are occurring in communities around the state. Test
    positivity rates are increasing sharply as well, an indication that COVID-19 is
    widespread in our communities. Additionally, the holiday season gives further
    cause for concern. Our history with this virus is such that after each holiday so far,
    we have experienced a spike in cases. Given the surge we are in right now, a
    further spike could be devastating.

    The situation is truly dire.

    As a result, our hospitals have been sounding the alarm. Hospital census due to
    COVID-19 patients needing hospitalization is growing rapidly across most of the
    state. Hospitals have started to utilize tools to maximize patient access to hospital
    beds, but the tools are not infinite. Hospitals across the state have voluntarily
    begun to reduce some surgeries to preserve beds and staff capacity. This is not just
    happening in Oregon. The dreaded winter surge is here. Infection records are
    being set in states across the country. This means we cannot look to other states to
    share their staffing and hospital beds because they too are experiencing the surge.

    The cycle of this virus is such that if we are seeing case rates topping 1,000 per day
    now—and anticipating increased transmission over the holidays—that means our
    hospitals are headed for very dark days ahead. Actions taken now will help prevent
    lives from being lost—not just from COVID-19, but from other diseases or
    accidents that lead people to need hospital-level care, which they would not be able
    to get if hospital beds and hospital staff are fully occupied with COVID-19
    patients.

    We are all buoyed by the hopeful news regarding COVID-19 vaccines, and hopeful
    that distribution of one or more vaccines against COVID-19 may begin in the not-
    too-distant future. However, unfortunately, as federal, state, and private sector
    professionals have long advised, distribution of those vaccines, and the vaccines’
    ability to bring community spread down to acceptable levels, will take time.

    Put simply, despite hopeful news on the vaccine front, it is clear that we will still be
    living with COVID-19 for some time. In order to save lives and protect human
    health, the state must continue its efforts to control COVID-19 using the basic
    mitigation measures that have defined this pandemic: wearing a face covering,
    keeping physical distance, washing hands, avoiding touching our face.




                                                                                               Contains
                                                                                               Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE THREE

    This Executive Order sets forth the framework for using data-driven indicators of
    disease spread to guide measures to reduce risk from COVID-19. That is, in
    counties where disease spread is higher, more restrictive measures will need to be
    implemented. In counties where disease spread is lower, measures may be eased.
    The degree of protective measures in the community will be tied directly to the
    spread of COVID-19 in the community, and may increase or decrease periodically,
    as spread within the county increases or decreases. It is important to note,
    however, that there is no zero-risk category.

    This is not forever. It is just for now. By continuing to make sacrifices in the near
    term to protect our friends, families, neighbors, and fellow Oregonians, we can help
    ensure no one is missing when we gather around our dining room tables and in
    public spaces in the future. There are no shortcuts in this pandemic. But we will
    get through it the same way we have so far: together.

    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED THAT:

    Pursuant to ORS 401.168, ORS 401.175, ORS 401.188, ORS 433.441, and
    ORS 401.035, I am ordering the following:

        1. Replacing Executive Orders 20-27 and 20-65. As of the effective date of
           this Executive Order, Executive Orders 20-27 and 20-65 are rescinded, and
            replaced by the directives in this Executive Order.


       2.   Oregon Health Authority (OHA) to issue guidance for the public,
            employers, and sectors. Throughout this pandemic, Oregon’s response has
            shifted as conditions on the ground have shifted, and as emerging science
            and data have given us greater clarity regarding the best ways to manage
            this pandemic. Maintaining the flexibility to nimbly adjust as conditions
            and knowledge change is critical to an effective emergency response.
            Accordingly:


            a.   I delegate to OHA the authority to develop and issue, and from time to
                 time revise, binding guidance for the public, for employers, and for
                 particular sectors of the economy, to implement the directives of this
                 Executive Order. OHA guidance may also provide definitions,
                 clarifications, or needed modifications to the directives in this Executive
                 Order, and may identify certain business types, the operation of which is
                 prohibited during this emergency. The Governor will approve OHA
                 guidance before it is issued. Upon approval, the OHA guidance will




                                                                                               Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE FOUR



                become part of the directives of this Executive Order and will be
                published online on Governor Brown's website
                (https://govstatus.egov.com/or-covid-19/) and the OHA website
                (https://govstatus.egov.com/OR-OHA-COVID-19).


           b.   As described more fully in paragraph 10 of this Executive Order, once
                approved by the Governor and published, guidance issued to implement
                this Executive Order is enforceable to the same extent this Executive
                Order is enforceable.


           c.   In order to continue to control the spread and risk from COIVD-19 in
                Oregon, individuals, businesses, and other covered entities are directed
                to comply with applicable OHA guidance issued under the authority of
                this Executive Order.


           d.   Any guidance previously issued under the authority of Executive Orders
                20-27 or 20-65 continues under the authority of this Executive Order
                unless and until that guidance is rescinded or modified by OHA or the
                issuing agency.


      3.   Risk Level Metrics.


                a.   Establishing Risk Level Metrics.


                         i.   Using the procedure described in paragraph 2 of this
                              Executive Order, OHA is directed to develop and, upon
                              approval by the Governor, publish Risk Level Metrics to
                              systematically measure and identify, on a county-by-county
                              basis, when counties are experiencing “Lower Risk,”
                              “Moderate Risk,” “High Risk,” and “Extreme Risk” from
                              COVID-19 (collectively, “Risk Levels”).


                        ii.   These Risk Level Metrics shall consider indicators of disease
                              spread, which may include case rates and percent positivity.
                              The Risk Level Metrics may also consider factors such as
                              hospital capacity, public health response and response
                              capacity, and impact on communities disproportionately




                                                                                              Contains
                                                                                              Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon



    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE FIVE


                            impacted, or such other measures as OHA in its judgment, in
                            consultation with the Governor, may determine best measure
                            a county’s Risk Level.


                     iii. These Risk Level Metrics may be revised from time to time,
                            via the procedure described in paragraph 2 of this Executive
                            Order, and may identify additional Risk Levels beyond the
                            four identified above.


              b.   Determining counties’ Risk Level.


                       i.   OHA is directed to regularly determine and publish which
                            Risk Level each county falls into, based on the Risk Level
                            Metrics, so counties, and the businesses, individuals, and
                            other entities within those counties, may identify which Risk
                            Level they fall into, and what restrictions apply, at any given
                            time.


                      ii.   OHA’s methodology for periodically determining and
                            publishing which Risk Level a county falls into may use a
                            “waiting period” before moving counties up or down a Risk
                            Level, to confirm that changing case rates or test positivity
                            are a stable trend, rather than an anomaly.


                     iii. A county may request to stay at a higher Risk Level on the
                          Risk Level Metrics, even when eligible to move to a lower
                            Risk Level.


                      iv.   A county's current Risk Level is as determined by OHA for
                            purposes of this Executive Order and guidance issued under
                            the authority of this Executive Order.


      4.   Sector Guidance. Using the procedure described in paragraph 2 of this
           Executive Order, OHA is directed to do the following:




                                                                                              Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE SIX



           a.   Content of sector guidance.


                    i.   OHA is directed to issue guidance that defines and sets
                         safety measures, operational limitations, and capacity limits
                         for different sectors of the economy, to control the spread
                         and risk from COVID-19. Operational limitations may
                         include, but are not limited to, closure of certain activities.


                   ii.   These safety measures, operational limitations, and capacity
                         limits may be tied to, implemented by reference to, and
                         depend on, the Risk Level Metrics and county Risk Levels
                         described in paragraph 3, above. That is, where Risk Levels
                         are higher, safety measures, capacity limits or operational
                         limitations may be more restrictive.


                  iii.   In issuing the guidance that defines and sets these safety
                         measures, operational limitations, and capacity limits, OHA
                         shall generally be guided by science and data regarding risk,
                         including but not limited to the general principles for
                         fighting the virus that OHA has identified, or may identify in
                         the future, including but not limited to:


                             1.   That outdoor activity is safer than indoor activity;


                             2.   That good ventilation is better than poor ventilation;


                             3.   That always wearing masks when around others
                                  outside your household protects you and those around
                                  you;


                             4.   That keeping at least six feet from others outside your
                                  household helps prevent the spread of the disease;


                             5.   That we should limit the number of people we have
                                  contact with—within six feet and in the same space;




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE SEVEN



                              6.   That we should limit the density indoors and in
                                   confined outdoor spaces or those with shared indoor
                                   facilities;


                              7.   That we should limit the amount of time you are with
                                   others outside your household; and


                              8.   That we may need additional measures to protect
                                   those who are most vulnerable.


           b.   Enumeration of sectors. I direct OHA to issue sector guidance
                defining, and setting safety measures, operational limitations, and
                capacity limits, for the following sectors or categories of activities:


                     i.   Eating and drinking establishments.


                    ii.   Indoor Recreation and Fitness Establishments, including but
                          not limited to indoor gyms, indoor fitness organizations,
                          indoor recreational sports, indoor pools, indoor K-12 sports,
                          indoor collegiate sports, indoor personal training, and indoor
                          dance.


                   iii.   Indoor Entertainment Establishments, including but not
                          limited to aquariums, indoor theaters/arenas/concert halls,
                          indoor gardens, indoor museums, indoor entertainment
                          activities of any kind, and indoor event spaces.


                   iv.    Retail Establishments, including but not limited to farmers’
                          markets, grocery stores, warehouse clubs, wholesale clubs,
                          convenience stores and pharmacies.


                    v.    Indoor and Outdoor Shopping Centers/Malls.


                   vi.    Faith Institutions,    Funeral Homes, Mortuaries, and
                          Cemeteries.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE EIGHT



                  vii.   Outdoor Recreation and Fitness Establishments, including
                         but not limited to outdoor gyms, outdoor fitness
                         organizations, outdoor recreational sports, outdoor pools,
                         outdoor parks and hiking trails, outdoor campsites, outdoor
                         K-12 sports, outdoor collegiate sports, outdoor personal
                         training, and outdoor dance.


                 viii.   Outdoor Entertainment Establishments, including but not
                         limited to zoos, outdoor gardens, outdoor aquariums, outdoor
                         theaters, outdoor stadiums, outdoor event spaces, outdoor
                         arenas, outdoor concert halls, and outdoor entertainment
                         activities of any kind.


                   ix.   Youth programs, including but not limited to camps and
                         programs operated by a political subdivision of the state or
                         governmental agency that would otherwise be exempt from
                         licensure.


                   x.    Personal Services, including but not limited to barber shops,
                         hair salons, esthetician practices, medical spas, facial spas
                         and day spas, non-medical massage therapy services, nail
                         salons, tanning salons, and tattoo/piercing parlors.


                   xi.   Drive-in operations, including but not limited to drive-in
                         movie theatres and viewing experiences from a personal
                         vehicle.


                  xii.   Other sectors or categories of activities as OHA, in
                         consultation with the Governor, may determine require
                         sector-specific guidance.


           c.   Compliance with OHA Guidance. Businesses, non-profits, and
                other sectors must at all times be aware of the Risk Level in the
                counties where they operate and comply with the requirements
                applicable to those Risk Levels established in OHA guidance.




                                                                                         Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE NINE



             d.   Sectors without specific prohibitions may operate, provided they
                  comply with any applicable OHA guidance, including but not
                  limited to applicable sector-specific guidance, the guidance for
                  employers, and the face coverings guidance.


      5. Individual Guidance. Using the procedure described in paragraph 2 of this
         Executive Order, as part of or in addition to the sector guidance referenced
         in paragraph 4 of this Executive Order, OHA may from time to time issue
         or amend guidance establishing general requirements that individual
         Oregonians must comply with regardless of setting to control the spread and
         risk from COVID-19. This individual guidance may be tied to,
         implemented by reference to, and depend on, the Risk Level Metrics
         described in paragraph 3 of this Executive Order. Areas where OHA may,
         with the approval of the Governor, issue individual guidance include, but
         are not limited to:


             a.   Requirements regarding face coverings;


             b.   Requirements regarding physical distancing;


             c.   Limitations and safety requirements for social and at-home
                  gatherings;


             d.   Limitations on indoor or outdoor activities not otherwise
                  categorized;


             e.   Limitations and safety requirements for travel; and


             f.   Requirements regarding COVID-19 related isolation and quarantine.


      6. Workplaces with offices in Oregon. While COVID-19 is spreading in a
         community, telework, when it is possible, helps to protect a business’
         employees and their families and other close contacts, and also helps to
         protect others who are unable to telework, by helping to keep community
         spread lower. Although utilizing telework options to the extent possible is
         recommended in all Risk Levels during this pandemic, requirements around
         telework will vary based on the Risk Level where the county is located.




                                                                                        Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE TEN



           Namely, all businesses and nonprofit entities with offices in Oregon, except
           those expressly exempted in paragraph 8, below, must comply with the
           following:


              a.   When a county is at Extreme Risk: All businesses and non-profit
                   entities with offices in that county shall facilitate telework and
                   work-at-home by employees, to the maximum extent
                   possible. Work in offices is prohibited whenever telework and
                   work-at-home options are available, in light of position duties,
                   availability of teleworking equipment, and network adequacy.


              b.   When a county is at High or Moderate Risk: All businesses and
                   non-profit entities with offices in that county are strongly
                   recommended to facilitate telework and work-at-home by
                   employees, to the maximum extent possible. It is strongly
                   recommended that work in offices be avoided whenever telework
                   and work-at-home options are available, in light of position duties,
                   availability of teleworking equipment, and network adequacy.


              c.   When a county is at Lower Risk: Businesses and non-profit entities
                   with offices in that county may make limited return to work
                   available. Businesses and non-profits are encouraged to consider
                   continuing to make telework and work-at-home options are
                   available.


              d.   For all Risk Levels: Businesses and non-profit entities with offices
                   in Oregon must comply with any applicable OHA guidance,
                   including but not limited to applicable sector-specific guidance, the
                   guidance for employers, and the face coverings guidance.


      7.   Recommendations.


              a.   Remote, drive-through, and outdoor options encouraged. For all
                   activities allowed during the effective dates of this Executive Order,
                   individuals, families, businesses, event organizers, and faith leaders
                   are strongly encouraged to consider remote, drive-through, curbside,




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE ELEVEN



                   delivery and outdoor options, or canceling or postponing the
                   activity.


              b.   OHA recommendations. In addition to the mandatory OHA
                   guidance described in this Executive Order, OHA may, from time to
                   time, issue or amend non-mandatory recommendations or
                   advisories. Such recommendations may be included in OHA
                   guidance, or may be issued separately, but in either case will be
                   clearly designated as recommendations, rather than requirements.


      8.   Exceptions. The settings listed below are, to the extent stated below,
           exempt from the requirements of this Executive Order.


              a.   Higher education, K-12 schools, childcare. Higher education
                   institutions shall continue to comply with Executive Order 20-28,
                   including as extended or modified by further Executive Orders, and
                   any guidance from the Higher Education Coordinating Commission.
                   Childcare facilities shall continue to comply with Executive Order
                   20-19, including as modified by further Executive Orders, and any
                   guidance from the Department of Education, Early Learning
                   Division, Office of Child Care. K-12 schools continue to be comply
                   with Executive Order 20-29, including as extended or modified by
                   further Executive Orders, and any guidance from the Department of
                   Education or OHA. Settings governed by the Executive Orders
                   listed above in this subparagraph 8(a) are exempt from the
                   requirements of this Executive Order.


              b.   State executive branch buildings and operations. I delegate to the
                   Director of the Department of Administrative Services (DAS) the
                   authority to issue, and from time to time revise, binding guidance to
                   help control the spread of COVID-19 in state executive branch
                   buildings and operations. That guidance is enforceable to the same
                   extent this Executive Order is enforceable. State executive branch
                   buildings and operations are otherwise exempt from the
                   requirements of this Executive Order, provided they are operating in
                   compliance with the DAS guidance.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
                                                                                           Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE TWELVE



           c.   Local governments. Local government buildings and operations are
                exempt from the requirements of Paragraph 6 of this executive order
                (workplaces with offices in Oregon), but must otherwise comply
                with any applicable requirements of this Executive Order, the Risk
                Level Metrics, and OHA guidance issued under the authority of this
                Executive Order.


           d.   Judicial branch, legislative branch, federal government, and tribal
                governments. This Executive Order, and any guidance issued under
                the authority of this Executive Order, does not apply to offices and
                buildings owned or occupied by the state legislative and judicial
                branches, federal government, and tribal governments, or to the
                governmental operations of those entities. It is my hope and
                expectation that these entities will continue to maintain, or adopt,
                evidence-based rules or guidance to govern their own buildings and
                operations that control the spread of COVID-19     in those settings.


           e.   Licensed health care facilities and licensed residential facilities.
                Health care facilities and residential facilities licensed by OHA and
                DHS must continue to comply with licensing requirements and
                applicable DHS and OHA guidance. Provided that they are in
                compliance with licensing requirements and applicable guidance,
                however, these entities are exempt from the other requirements of
                this Executive Order.


           f.   Shelters and emergency response. Emergency response activities,
                shelter and meal programs serving vulnerable populations, and
                encampments of people experiencing homelessness must comply
                with applicable OHA guidance specifically for shelters and
                emergency response activities. Provided that they are in compliance
                with that guidance, emergency response activities, shelter and meal
                programs serving vulnerable populations, and encampments of
                people experiencing homelessness are exempt from the other
                requirements of this Executive Order.




                                                                                        Contains
                                                                                        Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE THIRTEEN



             g.   Certain employer-provided housing. Settings covered by Executive
                  Order 20-58 shall continue to comply with that Executive Order so
                  long as it is in effect, and are exempt from the requirements of this
                  Executive Order.


      9. Legal Effect. This Executive Order is issued under the authority conferred
         to the Governor by ORS 401.165 to 401.236 and ORS 401.035. Pursuant to
         ORS 401.192(1), the directives set forth in this Executive Order shall have
         the full force and effect of law, and any existing laws, ordinances, rules and
         orders shall be inoperative to the extent they are inconsistent with this
         exercise of the Governor’s emergency powers.


      10. Enforcement.


             a.   This Executive Order, the Risk Level Metrics, and any guidance
                  issued by OHA or another state agency designated by the Governor
                  to implement this Executive Order, are public health laws as defined
                  in ORS 431A.005, and may be enforced as permitted under
                  ORS 431A.010, including but not limited to enforcement via civil
                  penalties as provided in that statute, which has a statutory maximum
                  fine of $500 per day per violation.


             b.   In addition to any other penalty that may be imposed under
                  applicable laws, any person, business, or entity found to be in
                  violation of this Executive Order, the Risk Level Metrics, or any
                  guidance issued by OHA or other state agencies to implement this
                  Executive Order, is subject to the penalties described in
                  ORS 401.990, in particular, that any person knowingly violating this
                  Executive Order shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a Class
                  C misdemeanor, which is punishable by up to 30 days in jail or a
                  fine of $1,250 or both.


             c.   I direct other state agencies with regulatory enforcement authority,
                  including but not limited to Oregon Occupational Safety and Health
                  (Oregon OSHA) and the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, to
                  continue their efforts to protect the lives and health of Oregonians
                  by enforcing, under existing civil and administrative enforcement




                                                                                          Contains
                                                                                          Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon



    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
    PAGE FOURTEEN


                  authorities, the directives in this Executive Order, the Risk Level
                  Metrics, and any guidance issued by OHA or other state agencies to
                  implement this Executive Order.


             d.   I direct the Superintendent of the Oregon State Police to coordinate
                  with law enforcement agencies throughout the state to enforce the
                  directives of this Executive Order, the Risk Level Metrics, or any
                  guidance issued by OHA or other state agencies to implement this
                  Executive Order, as appropriate. It is my expectation that law
                  enforcement agencies will primarily focus on referral to civil
                  enforcement authorities, and will reserve criminal citations for
                  willful and flagrant violations of this order.


             e.   These enumerated enforcement mechanisms are in addition to any
                  other private rights of action or other enforcement mechanism that
                  may exist in statute or at common law, or under federal law.


             f.   Businesses and other entities that fail to comply with the applicable
                  requirements of this Executive Order, the Risk Level Metrics, or any
                  guidance issued by OHA or other state agencies to implement this
                  Executive Order, may be closed until they demonstrate compliance.


      11. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph,
         sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this Executive Order, or any guidance
         issued under the authority of this Executive Order, is for any reason held to
         be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
         portions of this Order or guidance issued under the authority of this
         Executive Order.


      12. Discretion; No Right of Action. Any decision made by the Governor
         pursuant to this Executive Order is made at her sole discretion. This
         Executive Order is not intended to create, and does not create, any
         individual right, privilege, or benefit, whether substantive or procedural,
         enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the State of Oregon, its
         agencies, departments, or any officers, employees, or agents thereof.




                                                                                          Contains
                                                                                          Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-66
   PAGE FIFTEEN



     13. Effective Date. This Executive Order is effective December 3, 2020 at
        12:01 a.m., and remains in effect until terminated by the Governor.


        Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2TM day of December, 2020.



                                         Kit. Low
                                                —
                                       Kate Brown
                                       GOVERNOR



                                       ATTEST:




                                           a) Coa
                                       Bev Clarno
                                       SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                 Contains
                                                                                 Recycled
