Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-10


     PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
     THREAT OF WILDFIRE


     WHEREAS, under ORS 401.165 the Governor of Oregon may declare a state of
     emergency by proclamation upon determining that an emergency has occurred or is
     imminent.


     WHEREAS,| find that the State of Oregon is at imminent risk ofa critical fire
     danger situation.


     WHEREAS, the extended climate forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and
     dry conditions, resulting in imminent threat of fire, smoke, and heat over a broad       |
     area of the state. Additionally, widespread drought conditions are prevalent             |
     throughout the state.                                :

     WHEREAS, it is predicted that the state of Oregon will experience wildfires this             |
     season which could result in multiple State conflagrations and federal Fire                  |
     Management Assistance Grant (FMAG) declarations, community evacuations,                      |
     threatened and damaged critical infrastructure, and destroyed homes and other
     structures.                                                                                  |


     WHEREAS, the threat to life and property from wildfires is significant and could             |
     cause harm to persons as well as extensive damage to homes, public facilities,                   |
     businesses, public utilities, and infrastructure, all impacting the life and health of
     people throughout Oregon and all of which affect life, health, property, or the
     public peace, and is a public disaster demanding immediate action; and

     WHEREAS, the Oregon Department of Forestry and Oregon Department ofthe
     State Fire Marshal anticipate to be heavily engaged in initial and extended wildfire
     attack and Incident Management Teams.

     WHEREAS, new, emerging, or existing fire threats elevate the need for access to
     state resources, including ground support and firefighting aircraft.

     WHEREAS, multiple state agencies need to be prepared to expedite resources and
     respond effectively to these dangerous and dynamic conditions, if requested.

     NOW THEREFORE, I, Tina Kotek, Governor of the State of Oregon, by virtue of
     the authority vested in me under ORS 401.165, do hereby proclaim that a statewide
     state of emergency exists across Oregon, effectively immediately. This declaration
     directs the plans and procedures in the Oregon State Comprehensive Emergency
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-10
     PAGE TWO


     Management Plan be implemented. State agencies and departments are directed to
     utilize state resources in accordance with the Oregon State Comprehensive
     Emergency Management Plan and to do everything reasonably possible to assist
     affected political subdivisions in an effort to respond to, mitigate, and recover from
     the impacts of this emergency.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


         1.   The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (OEM). OEM shall
              activate the State’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and
              coordinate necessary access to use of personnel and equipment of all state
              agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate, and recover
              from conditions caused by this emergency. OEM shall coordinate all
              essential protective measures in collaboration with the Oregon Department
              of Forestry, Oregon Department of State Fire Marshal in support of
              identified disaster areas to protect lives, property and environment. All
              Oregonians are to heed the direction of emergency officials with regard to
              this emergency in order to protect their safety.


        2. The Oregon National Guard. The Oregon National Guard will deploy, and
           redeploy, firefighting resources as needed and in accordance with
           Operations Plan Smokey 2026 throughout the remainder of fire season
              based upon threat and resource shortfalls.


        3. The Oregon Department ofthe State Fire Marshal (OSFM). OSFM is
           further authorized to assign fire-fighting forces and equipment on my behalf
           pursuant to ORS 476.520 in response to fire, a heightened danger of fire or
           a significant reduction in available fire-fighting resources during this
              emergency.



        4, The Oregon Department of Forestry (ODF). ODF, in addition to authorities
           pursuant to ORS 477.066, is authorized to summarily abate the nuisance of
           uncontrolled fire, pursuant to ORS 477.064, thus constituted by controlling
           and extinguishing a fire that exists outside ofa protection area to include
           but not limited to forestland as requested.

        5.    Inconformance with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, any
              local or tribal government request for state resources must be submitted
              through county or tribal governing bodies to the Oregon Department of
              Emergency Management.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 26-10
     PAGE THREE



       6.   This determination ofa wildfire emergency is statewide. It is not to be
            construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for
            other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for
            fire management required by the emergency, to request assistance through
            the Emergency Management Assistance Compact if needed, and to allow
            state agencies to suspend provision ofany order or rule ofthe agency if
            compliance with the provisions ofthe order or rule would in any way
            prevent, hinder or delay mitigating the effects ofthe wildfire emergency.


       7.   Duration: This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly
            relieved, or fire season ends, as determined by the Governor, or December
            31, 2026, whichever occurs first.


            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 15" day of June, 2026.




                                                        C/o
                                                   Tina Kotek
                                                   GOVERNOR



                                                   ATTEST:




                                                   Tobias Read
                                                   SECRETARY of STATE
