Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-02


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    KLAMATH COUNTY.


    At the request of Klamath County by Resolution No. 2022-016 dated February 22,
    2022, and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the
    Water Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the low
    snowpack, low reservoir levels, and low streamflow have caused or will cause
    natural and economic disaster conditions Klamath County.

    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, and natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on drinking water, fish
    and wildlife, important minimum flows for public instream uses and other natural
    resources dependent on adequate precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in
    these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to affect local growers, increase the
    potential for fire, shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department ofForestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Klamath County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       if      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Klamath County.

       We      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Klamath County as the Department and Commission determine
               necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-02
    PAGE TWO




      UL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.


      IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Klamath County.

            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Klamath County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2022.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 4'" day of March, 2022.




                                                K e c b s1 o m
                                              Kate Brown
                                              GOVERNOR




                                              ATTEST:



                                                  Sete
                                              Shemia Fagan
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE
