Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-19


  DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN COOS AND
  WHEELER COUNTIES.


  At the request of Coos County (by Coos County Board of Commissioners Resolution No.
  25-07-145L, dated August 5, 2025), and Wheeler County (by Wheeler County Court
  Resolution No. 2025-020, dated August 6, 2025) and based on the recommendations of
  the Drought Readiness Council and input from the Water Supply Availability Committee
  dated August 13, 2025 (Coos and Wheeler Counties) and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find
  that persistent moderate drought conditions as well as below normal precipitation, above
  normal temperature and below normal streamflow and soil moisture conditions have
  caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Coos County, and long-
  term moderate and severe drought conditions as well as below normal precipitation and
  above normal temperature have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster
  conditions in Wheeler County.


  Forecasts suggest that below normal precipitation and streamflow conditions are likely to
  continue in Coos and Wheeler Counties (Counties) following an extended period during
  spring and early summer with drier and warmer than normal conditions. Without
  sustained precipitation, drought conditions are likely to persist or intensify in the
  Counties. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the agricultural,
  livestock, natural resource and recreational tourism sectors and increase the risk of
  wildfire in the Counties.


  Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public safety
  agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon Department of
  Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal, and the Oregon
  Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

  Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
  property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these counties. I,
  therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to
  continue to exist in the Counties.




                                                                                              Hig
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-19
  PAGE TWO


  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    I      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
           assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
           assist in agricultural recovery in Coos and Wheeler Counties.


    ie     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
           Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users
           in Coos and Wheeler Counties as the Department and Commission determine
           necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


    Ill.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek information from
           the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help understand the impacts of
           water availability on Oregon’s fish and wildlife, as necessary and appropriate
           in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


    IV.    The Oregon Department of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate
           and assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
           current and projected conditions in Coos and Wheeler Counties.

           All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
           provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected political
           subdivisions and water users in Coos and Wheeler Counties.

    VI.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2025.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 15" day of August, 2025.


                                                 [ae
                                             Tina Kotek
                                             GOVERNOR


                                             ay


                                             Tobias Read :
                                             SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                             HI
