Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-22


    CONTINUING THE GOVERNOR’S ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
    MOTORCYCLE SAFETY; REPLACING EXECUTIVE ORDERS 99-09
    AND 16-01.


    The Governor’s Advisory Committee on Motorcycle Safety (Committee) was
    informally established by Governor Vic Atiyeh in 1981, and subsequently
    formalized and extended in Executive Orders 99-09 and 16-01 by Governors John
    Kitzhaber and Kate Brown. The Committee represents the voice of Oregon
    motorcyclists and advises the Governor of the State of Oregon on safety for
    motorcyclists and those with whom they share the road in Oregon. I find good
    cause to continue this committee for a further four years, as directed below.

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


       1. The Governor’s Advisory Committee on Motorcycle Safety (Committee) is
          continued. The committee shall consist of not more than eight members
          appointed by the Governor. Committee members shall serve at the pleasure
          of the Governor for four year terms as those terms were initially staggered.
          In case of a vacancy for any cause, the Governor shall make an appointment
          for the unexpired term.
       2. The Committee shall focus its efforts upon rider education, drinking and
          riding, road hazards unique to motorcycles, motorist awareness of
          motorcycles, sharing the road and other safety issues. It shall advise the
          Governor and the Governor’s Highway Safety Representative regarding
          motorcycle safety issues and legislation that is in the best interest of the
          Oregon transportation public.
       3. The Committee shall submit an annual report to the Governor outlining the
          Committee’s accomplishments, goals and mission statement.
       4, The Committee shall elect a chairperson by majority vote. The chairperson
          shall designate a vice-chair to carry out the duties of the chair in the chair’s
          absence. The chair may designate subcommittees as needed.
       5. The Committee shall meet in accord with a schedule approved by a majority
          of its members and shall meet on special occasions at the call of the chair.
          Five voting members shall constitute a quorum. A vote of the majority shall
          be sufficient for all actions of the Committee.
       6. The Committee shall meet in accord with a schedule approved by a majority
          of its members and shall meet on special occasions at the call of the chair.
          Five voting members shall constitute a quorum. A vote of the majority shall
          be sufficient for all actions of the Committee.




                                                                                             Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-22
    PAGE TWO




      7.   Executive Orders 99-09 and 16-01 are rescinded, and replaced with this
           Executive Order.
      8.   This Executive Order shall expire October 1, 2026.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this | i day of October, 2022.



                                          Kt Leor—
                                        Kate Brown
                                        GOVERNOR



                                        AlTEST:




                                           Se
                                        Shemia Fagan
                                            a
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    He
