Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-42


    DECLARATION OF ABNORMAL DISRUPTION OF THE MARKET DUE
    TO WILDFIRES


    On August 20, 2020, I issued Executive Order No. 20-35 declaring a state of
    emergency due to the imminent threat of wildfires. This declaration recognized the
    extreme fire danger presented by hot, dry, windy conditions, as well as a significant
    risk that wildfires would result in evacuations, threats to critical infrastructure, and
    the destruction of homes and other structures. In recent days, that extreme danger
    has materialized, as several fires have burned across Oregon, destroying homes,
    displacing individuals, and causing injury and loss of life.


    ORS 401.965(5) empowers the Governor to declare an abnormal disruption of the
    market when any emergency prevents ready availability of essential consumer
    goods and services. My office has received reports that some persons evacuated
    from fire areas to lodging facilities may be experiencing unusual increases in
    lodging rates. I am also concerned that that the wildfire emergency may prevent
    ready availability of other essential consumer goods and services.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1. Having found that the ongoing wildfires present an emergency that prevents
            ready availability of essential consumer goods and services, I hereby
            declare that that an abnormal disruption of the market commenced at 12:00
            a.m. on September 9, 2020, in all Oregon counties.


       2.   Persons who believe that they have been subjected to unconscionably
            excessive prices for essential consumer goods and services due to this
            disruption should report that conduct to the Oregon Department of Justice
            Consumer Protection hotline, at 877-877-9392. (Consumers can also visit
            www.OregonConsumer.gov.) The Oregon Department of Justice has the
            authority to investigate unlawful trade practices.




                                                                                               Contains
                                                                                               Recycled
                                                                                               M
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-42
    PAGE TWO




      3. This order shall remain in effect for thirty days unless extended or
         terminated sooner.


         Done at Salem, Oregon this 10" day of September, 2020.



                                          Kit. Leow
                                                  —
                                        Kate Brown
                                        GOVERNOR



                                        ATTEST:




                                               Cy Gage
                                        Bev Clarno
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                Contains
                                                                                Recycled
