Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-25


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    MORROW COUNTY.


    At the request of Morrow County (by Commission Resolution R-2023-21, dated
    September 6, 2023) and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness
    Council and input from the Water Supply Availability Committee dated October
    19, 2023, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that low streamflow, low
    precipitation, and low soil moisture have caused or will cause natural and economic
    disaster conditions in Morrow Counties.

   Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
   improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
   ranch, vineyard, recreation, tourism and natural resources sectors, as well as an
   impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for
   public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate
   precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
   expected to affect local growers and livestock, increase the potential for fire,
    shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

   Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
   property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
   counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Morrow County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       Ik      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Morrow County.




                                                                                          Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-25
    PAGE TWO




      10,   The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
            users in Morrow County as the Department and Commission determine
            necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


      UI.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.


      LV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Morrow County.


            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Morrow County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2023.


            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 6"" day of November, 2023.




                                                  aWea
                                              Tina Kotek
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              MINES




                                          7 LaVonne Griffin- Valade
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    Contains
