Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-26


    ESTABLISHING A STATE GOVERNMENT ARTIFICIAL
    INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY COUNCIL


    WHEREAS, artificial intelligence is a term coined in 1956; and


    WHEREAS, generative artificial intelligence has the potential to bring significant
    benefits and also raise questions and concerns regarding ethics, privacy,
    notification, security, employment, education, and social change; and


    WHEREAS, ensuring the safe and beneficial use of artificial intelligence has never
    been more crucial; and


    WHEREAS, the potential for artificial intelligence to replicate, codify, and
    systematize discrimination and related impacts is extensive enough to have created
    a partner industry of activists, advocacy groups, and organizations devoted to
    shaping artificial intelligence policies to prevent further harm; and


    WHEREAS, Oregon’s State Data Strategy explicitly centers equity and ethics at
    the forefront of Oregon’s use of data and artificial intelligence systems; and


    WHEREAS, the federal government released a Blueprint for Artificial Intelligence
    Bill of Rights further centering the need for ethical and equitable principles,
    practices, and guidelines for government artificial intelligence adoption in order to
    protect individuals from harm; and


    WHEREAS, the exponential growth of artificial intelligence technologies should
    be documented, and the potential risks of their use should be acknowledged,
    planned for, and mitigated; and


    WHEREAS, maximizing potential benefits of ethical and effective artificial
    intelligence implementation and adoption requires thoughtful governance and
    standards to mitigate risk and address privacy, ethics, and equity; and

    WHEREAS, a stable and thoughtful regulatory approach to the use of artificial
    intelligence technologies in Oregon will continue to foster an environment for
    innovation while protecting individual and civil rights;




                                                                                            ER?
                                                                                            Ht
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-26
    PAGE TWO


    NOW, THEREFORE, I, TINA KOTEK, Governor of the State of Oregon, by
    virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of
    the State of Oregon, do hereby issue this order to become effectively immediately:


    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:
        1.   The Governor’s Oregon State Government Artificial Intelligence Advisory
             Council (the “Council’’) is established. The Council shall recommend an
             action plan to guide awareness, education, and usage of artificial
             intelligence in state government that aligns with the State’s policies, goals,
             and values and supports public servants to deliver customer service more
             efficiently and effectively. The recommended action plan shall include
             concrete executive actions, policies, and investments needed to leverage
             artificial intelligence while honoring transparency, privacy, and diversity,
             equity, and inclusion.


       2.    The Council shall consist of no more than fifteen (15) members. All
             members of the Council must have a commitment to data ethics and data
             equity. The members shall be selected as follows:

                 a.   The President of the Senate shall appoint one member of the Oregon
                      State Senate;
                 b.   The Speaker of the House shall appoint one member of the Oregon
                      House of Representatives;
                      Oregon State Chief Information Officer;
                 Ss
                      Oregon State Chief Data Officer;
                e.    Representative from the Governor’s Racial Justice Council,
                      appointed by the Governor;
                 f.   Department of Administrative Services Cultural Change Officer;
                 g.   Executive Branch agency representative, appointed by the
                      Governor;
                h. The Governor shall appoint up to eight additional members. These
                   members, at the discretion of the Governor, may include community
                   organizations with demonstrated expertise in data justice; artificial
                   intelligence experts from Oregon universities; and representatives
                      from local governments.




                                                                                              HER
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-26
        PAGE THREE


          3.   The Governor shall designate the Oregon State Chief Information Officer as
               Chair of the Council.


          4.   A quorum for the Council meetings shall consist of a majority of the
               appointed members. The Council shall strive to operate by consensus;
               however, the Council may approve measures and recommendations based
               on an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum.


          5.   The Council shall provide a recommended plan framework to the
               Governor’s Office no Jater than six months from date of convening, and a
               final recommended action plan no later than 12 months from convening.
               The report shall include the findings and recommendations of the Council.

|         6. The Council shall be staffed by Enterprise Information Services. In
               addition, all state offices and agencies shall provide necessary support to the
               Council.


          7. The Council shall make specific recommendations for policy changes and
             investments for consideration by the Governor, in order that:

                  a.   Awareness of artificial intelligence (AI) is promoted to support state
                       employees with information needed for their decision making; and
                  b. The State has clear usage policies that outline the acceptable use of
                     AI tools, providing transparency, uplifting diversity, equity, and
                     inclusion, and protecting personally identifiable information and
                       other sensitive information.

                  Done at Salem, Oregon, this 28" day of November, 2023.




                                                      Tina Kotek
                                                      GOVERNOR




                                                      LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                               ,




                                                      SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                                 Contales
