Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06



    ORDERING PUBLIC SCHOOLS TO OFFER FULLY ON-SITE OR
    HYBRID IN-PERSON INSTRUCTION, REQUIRING ALL SCHOOLS TO
    CONTINUE TO COMPLY WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY PROTOCOLS
    TO CONTROL COVID-19



    Since January 2020, the State of Oregon has been engaged in responding to the
    public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19). As the
    threat escalated, the S.ate’s response elevated to meet the threat. On March 8,
    2020, I declared a state of emergency pursuant to ORS 401.165 et seq., and.
    directed certain immediate response actions. Thereafter, the World Health
    Organization declared that the COVID-19 outbreak is a global pandemic, and the
    President of the United States declared the COVID-19 outbreak a national
    emergency. During March and April 2020, as the coronavirus continued to spread
    around the world, I took a series of actions aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-
     19 in Oregon, and to mitigate the public health and economic impacts of the
    pandemic. While those actions, and those in the months that followed, have been
    successful in keeping the State’s case and mortality rates from COVID-19 among
    the lowest in the nation, the disease still has taken an immense toll, with at least
     158,644 cases and 2,316 deaths in Oregon. Nationwide, more than 525,000 people
    have died of COVID-19.


    The pandemic has had an immense and disruptive impact on Oregon’s children. In
    the early days of the pandemic in Oregon, in order to control the spread and impact
    of COVID-19, I ordered a temporary, emergency shift to online instruction for K-
     12 students for the end of the 2019-2020 school year. For the first part of the 2020-
    21 school year, through my executive orders, the Ready Schools, Safe Learners
    guidance, and State Board of Education rules, there have been three allowable
    instructional models for public schools, depending on community spread of the
    disease, among other factors: On-Site, Hybrid, and Comprehensive Distance
    Learning. The vast majority of Oregon’s students have been receiving their
    schooling through comprehensive distance learning.


    During those uncertain early times last March, and in the fall of 2020, we did not
    know as much about how COVID-19 spreads, and how spread can be prevented.
    We did not have adequate supplies of personal protective equipment. We did not
    have adequate access to testing. We did not have an adequate contact tracing
    workforce. And a safe and effective vaccine was a distant hope.




                                                                                             Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
    PAGE TWO


    Comprehensive distance learning was a tool deployed to manage a crisis in a year
    no-one could have imagined. This emergency tool was never intended to be a
    permanent, or preferred, solution for educating the vast majority of Oregon’s
    children. In-person instruction is the norm for education in Oregon and around the
    world. It is the model we know best serves the vast majority of students. In-person
    instruction serves not only students’ needs for learning critical knowledge and
    skills, but also their needs for peer interaction, mental health supports, nutritional
    supports, and care and connection in supporting the well-being and resilience of
    students and their families. These needs cannot be met in a comparable way over a
    computer. There is no question that Oregon’s educators have risen to the
    challenges presented by this pandemic, transitioning to a wholly new system of
    delivering educational services, and supporting students and families through one
    of the most difficult years that Oregon has ever experienced. However, there is
    also no question that during this past year, Oregon’s children and families have
    been burdened by the educational, social, emotional, and mental health impacts of a
    worldwide pandemic and months of comprehensive distance learning.


    Much has changed since the early days of the pandemic. First, we know much
    more about this disease now than we did last spring, and, in particular, we know
    more today about the spread of COVID-19 in schools than we did then. Second,
    we also have many more resources and supports in place to support a safe return to
    the classroom for Oregon’s kids. These resources include, but are not limited to:

        e   Comprehensive health and safety protocols in the Ready Schools, Safe
            Learners guidance;

        e   Adequate face coverings and other personal protective equipment for staff
            and students;

        e   Substantial federal funding to prepare staff and facilities for return,
            including $500 million from the federal relief package approved by
            Congress in December 2020, with more on the way in the package approved
            in March 2021;

        e   Ventilation upgrades in education facilities;

        e   Ready access to on-site testing, through a statewide rapid testing program
            for schools, using our supply of Abbott BinaxNOW tests from the federal
            government;




                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Recycled
                                                                                             M
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-0
    PAGE THREE                         :



        e   The experience of schools across the state successfully choosing to return to
            in-person instruction, and the opportunity to learn from their successes—
            including districts that have returned to hybrid or in-person instruction, and
            schools, including some in our largest districts, which have welcomed a
            subset of students through limited in person instruction; and

        e   The availability of a vaccine for our workforce.


    In December of 2020, recognizing the progress that had been made in getting our
    state to a place where in-person instruction was possible on a larger scale, I directed
    that schools across the state begin the process of moving more students back to the
    environment we know serves them best: in-person instruction. I also prioritized
    educators for vaccines, acknowledging the critical role these individuals play in our
    children’s lives and the lives of our communities, and the critical importance of
    resuming in-person instruction in a safe way. I am pleased that those actions were
    sufficient to enable many districts across Oregon to find ways to return to in-person
    instruction. In particular, over 120,000 Oregon students have returned to
    classrooms since December. As of March 9, 2021, just over half of all schools in
    Oregon were offering either hybrid or full in person instruction (819 schools), and
    over 80% of the schools in Oregon were offering at least limited in person
    instruction (1,312 schools). In total, 174,784 students in kindergarten through 12"
    grade were participating in in some form of in-person learning the week of March
     1, 2021, or approximately one in every four Oregon students.


    Since December, COVID-19 case rates and positivity rates have decreased across
    the state, and Oregon continues to fare better than almost every state in the nation
    with regards to infection and mortality rates. Throughout the pandemic,
    Oregonians have made smart choices to wear face coverings, practice good
    hygiene, maintain physical distance, and avoid gatherings. Thanks to these smart
    choices and sacrifices by Oregonians, today, all but three Oregon counties meet or
    exceed Oregon’s advisory metrics for in-person, hybrid instruction for all K-12
    grade levels, and two of these counties meet the metrics for resuming in-person,
    hybrid instruction for students in elementary grades. In addition to the work of
    Oregonians to drive down community COVID-19 rates, public schools continue to
    adhere to the strict health and safety protocols under Oregon’s mandatory Ready
    Schools, Safe Learners guidance. Oregon is ready.




                                                                                              Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
    PAGE FOUR


    On March 5, 2021, I announced my intention to take the next step along the path
    we started down in December: giving all Oregon children the opportunity to be in
    the classroom this school year. Today, I issue this Executive Order to memorialize
    that direction. Our kids are only kids once. The science and data are clear: schools
    can return to in-person instruction with a very low risk of COVID-19 transmission
    where, as here, strict health and safety guidelines are in place, and particularly with
     a vaccinated workforce.


    As conditions across the state merit a return to in-person instruction, I could not be
    more relieved that we have reached a point in this pandemic where Oregon’s
     children can finally relinquish some of the immense burdens they have so bravely
    borne over this past year. I feel so much hope for Oregon’s children, their parents,
     and their schools, as we continue to navigate this pandemic. My gratitude goes out
    to the Oregon Health Authority, the Oregon Department of Education, and every
     school district, administrator, teacher, staff member, and parent for their work and
     sacrifices this past year, on behalf of our state and our people. Our children are our
     future, and we need to do everything we can to make up for the losses of 2020.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


     Pursuant to my powers as Superintendent of Public Instruction, and my emergency
    powers under ORS 401.035, ORS 401.168, ORS 401.175, ORS 401.188, ORS
     401.192, and ORS 433.441, I am issuing the following directives:

     ike    Definitions.


            a.      “Public schools” means public school districts, educational service
                    districts, and public charters, as defined in ORS 330.003(2), ORS
                    330.005(2), ORS 334.003(2), and ORS 338.005(2). “Public
                    schools” also includes Juvenile Corrections Education Programs and
                    Youth Detention Education Programs, as defined by ORS 326.695;
                    the Oregon School for the Deaf, as defined by ORS 346.010; and
                    Long Term Care and Treatment Programs, as defined by ORS
                    343.961.


            b.      “Private schools” includes private or parochial schools providing
                    courses of study usually taught in kindergarten through grade 12 in
                    the public schools and in attendance for a period equivalent to that
                    required of children attending public schools, as defined in ORS
                    339.030(1)(a).




                                                                                              Contains
                                                                                              Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
     PAGE FIVE



          GC     “Comprehensive Distance Learning instructional model” is an
                 instructional model in which all students are engaged in learning via
                 remote means, with limited in-person supports for students in some
                 circumstances, in accordance with the requirements in guidance
                 issued by the Oregon Department of Education and the Oregon
                 Health Authority.


          d.     “On-Site instructional model” is an instructional model in which all
                 students have access to in-person instruction in accordance with
                 public health requirements. The on-site instructional model
                 exclusively delivers educational services to students every day, all-
                 day in ways that are similar to pre-COVID models of delivery while
                 meeting instructional time requirements. If any instructional time
                 (either teacher-facilitated learning or applied learning) is delivered
                 remotely or off-site, it is a hybrid model.


          é      “Hybrid instructional model” includes any instructional model that
                 is not fully on-site and in-person (with all students attending on-site
                 every day) or fully in comprehensive distance learning. An on-site
                 instructional model becomes a hybrid instructional model when any
                 portion of instructional time used to meet instructional hours
                 requirements is delivered in a distance learning format.


     2;   Executive Order 20-29 rescinded and replaced. Executive Order 20-29 is
          rescinded, and replaced with the directives in this Executive Order, as of the
          effective date of this Executive Order. All ODE and OHA guidance issued
          pursuant to Executive Order 20-29 continues in effect under the authority of
          this Executive Order, unless and until it is amended by ODE or OHA, as
          provided in this Executive Order.


     3,   In-person classroom instruction.


          a.     Not later than the week of March 29, 2021 for grades K-5, and the
                 week of April 19, 2021 for grades 6-12, all public schools in Oregon
                 shall be in operation to deliver educational services through either a
                 hybrid instructional model or an on-site instructional model. After
                 those dates, it will no longer be an option for public schools to
                 exclusively offer a comprehensive distance learning instructional
                 model.




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
    PAGE SIX


         (0);   Not later than March 19, 2021, ODE and OHA are directed to
                update the guidance described in paragraph 4 of this Executive
                Order, so the guidance conforms to the directives in this Executive
                Order.


         Cc     Guidance issued pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Executive Order
                may establish exceptions to the requirements set forth in paragraph
                3(a) of this Executive Order.


         d.     The requirements set forth in paragraph 3(a) of this Executive Order
                do not apply to a virtual charter school as defined in ORS 338.005
                or a public school that has a permanent instructional model that is
                predominantly through online courses.


    4.   Guidance for K-12 schools. Pursuant to this Executive Order, OHA and
         ODE shall continue to, separately or jointly, publish guidance relating to the
         conduct of in-person instructional activities at public schools and private
         schools.


         a.     Such guidance may include, but is not limited to, requirements for
                face coverings, physical distancing, sanitization, on-site COVID-19
                testing, monitoring, and isolation procedures, as well as standards
                for the continuity of high-quality education. The guidance may
                provide definitions, clarifications, or exceptions to the requirements
                set forth in this Executive Order. Such guidance may be
                supplemented or amended by OHA, or ODE, or both, from time to
                time.


         b.     In order to continue to control the spread and risk from COIVD-19
                in Oregon, public schools and private schools in Oregon are directed
                to comply with applicable ODE and OHA guidance issued under or
                continuing under the authority of this Executive Order.


    oF   Schools required to offer comprehensive distance learning instructional
         model option. Public and private schools must continue to offer families
         the option of continuing with the comprehensive distance learning
         instructional model for the remainder of the 2020-21 school year. The
         guidance referenced in paragraph 4 of this Executive Order may provide
         exceptions to this requirement.




                                                                                          Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
    PAGE SEVEN



          Effect of order on compensation. Nothing in this Executive Order requires
          public schools to pay employees who fail or refuse to report to work in-
          person, as assigned.


          State school fund allocations.


          a.     Public schools shall continue to receive allocations from the State
                 School Fund provided that they comply with the provisions of this
                 Executive Order and guidance from OHA and ODE issued under the
                 authority of this Executive Order, as well as other applicable laws,
                 including but not limited to ORS 659.850.


          b.     Public schools may use transportation grant funds from the State
                 School Fund for the purposes of providing student access to distance
                 learning and educational materials, as may be necessary.


          Rulemaking. The Oregon State Board of Education and the Teachers
          Standards and Practices Commission, in collaboration with ODE, shall
          promulgate rules necessary to facilitate the directives in this Executive
          Order, and the ability of public schools to respond to the ongoing
          emergency.



          Use of school facilities for other activities. Other public school and private
          school functions beyond in-person instruction (including but not limited to
          childcare, youth camps, and athletics) must comply with the guidance
          described in paragraph 4 of this Executive Order, with other applicable
          Executive Orders and OHA guidance, and with directives and guidance
          regarding gathering sizes and physical distancing.


    10.   Force and effect. This Executive Order is issued under the authority
          conferred to the Governor as Superintendent of Public Instruction, and by
          ORS 401.165 to 401.236. This Order has the effect described in ORS
          401.192(1); pursuant to ORS 401.192(1), the directives set forth in this
          Executive Order shall have the full force and effect of law.


    Iie   Enforcement. The directives in this Executive Order and any guidance
          issued by OHA, ODE, or other state agency to implement this Executive
          Order are effective statewide, unless otherwise specified. Guidance issued
          by ODE and OHA under the authority of this Executive Order and ORS
          401.035(2) is enforceable to the same extent this Executive Order is




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-06
    PAGE EIGHT



           enforceable. This Executive Order and any guidance issued by OHA to
           implement this Executive Order are public health laws, as defined in ORS
           431A.005, and may be enforced as permitted under ORS 431A.010, ORS
           401.990, and any other penalty that may be imposed under applicable laws.


     7,    Discretion; no right of action. Any decision made by the Governor pursuant
           to this Executive Order is made at her sole discretion. This Executive Order
           is not intended to create, and does not create, any individual right, privilege,
           or benefit, whether substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
           equity by any party against the State of Oregon, its agencies, departments,
           or any officers, employees, or agents thereof.


     13,   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence,
           clause, phrase, or word of this Executive Order is for any reason held to be
           invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
           of this Order.


     14.   Effective date. This Executive Order is effective March 12, 2021, and
           remains in effect until terminated by the Governor.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 12" day of March, 2021.




                                          Kate Brown
                                          GOVERNOR



                                          ele Salis      </        s

                                          Shemia Fagan
                                          SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                              ee)
