Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-11

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    BAKER, DOUGLAS, GILLIAM, MORROW, AND WHEELER COUNTIES
    DUE TO LACK OF PRECIPITATION AND UNUSUALLY LOW SNOW
    PACK AND STREAMFLOW.

    At the request of Baker County (by Declaration of Disaster dated April 7, 2021),
    Douglas County (by Order dated April 28, 2021), Gilliam County (by Resolution
    R-2021-05 dated April 21, 2021), Morrow County (by Resolution R-2021-12 dated
    April 28, 2021), and Wheeler County (by Resolution 2021-10 dated April 21,
    2021), and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and
    the Water Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the
    lack of precipitation, low snow pack, low reservoir levels, and low streamflow have
    caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in these five
    counties.

    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, ranch, vineyard,
    recreation, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on drinking water and
    fish and wildlife and other natural resources which are dependent on adequate
    precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
    expected to affect local growers, increase the potential for fire, shorten growing
    season, and decrease water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal and
    the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and
    is likely to continue to exist in Baker, Douglas, Gilliam, Morrow, and Wheeler
    Counties.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       i        The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Baker, Douglas,
                Gilliam, Morrow, and Wheeler Counties.

       IL       The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Baker, Douglas, Gilliam, Morrow, and Wheeler Counties as the
                Department and Commission determine is necessary and appropriate in
                accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-11
   PAGE TWO




     IE.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
           information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
           understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
           wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
           to 536.780.

     PVE   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
           assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
           current and projected conditions in Baker, Douglas, Gilliam, Morrow,
           and Wheeler Counties.

           All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
           agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
           affected political subdivisions and water users in Baker, Douglas,
           Gilliam, Morrow, and Wheeler Counties.

     VE    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 10 day of May, 2021.




                                               w
                                       Kite Sho—
                                     Kate Brown
                                     GOVERNOR



                                     ATTEST: 2eee


                                     Shemia Fagan
                                     SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                     Contains
                                                                                     Recycled
