Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-29


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
     WALLOWA COUNTY.


     At the request of Wallowa County (by Board Resolution 2024-26, dated October 2,
     2024), and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and
     input from the Water Supply Availability Committee dated October 21, 2024, and
     pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that long-term drought conditions as well as below
     normal precipitation, above normal temperature, streamflow, and soil moisture
     conditions have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in
     Wallowa County.


     Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels suggest that conditions
     will not meaningfully improve for the remainder of the agricultural season.
     Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the agricultural,
     livestock, natural resource and recreational tourism sectors in Wallowa County.
     It will also impact public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on
     adequate precipitation and streamflow.

     Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
     Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
     and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

     Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
     property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
     counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
     and is likely to continue to exist in Wallowa County.

     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

        le      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Wallowa County.

        Il.     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Wallowa County as the Department and Commission determine
                necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                            ll
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-29
     PAGE TWO


       Il.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
             information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
             understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
             wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
             to 536.780.


       IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
             assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
             current and projected conditions in Wallowa County.


             All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
             agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
             affected political subdivisions and water users in Wallowa County.


       VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2024.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 23" day of October, 2024.




                                               Tina Kotek
                                               GOVERNOR


                                               ATTEST:




                                               LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                     Hee
