Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-03


    DECLARATION OF ABNORMAL DISRUPTION OF THE MARKET DUE
    TO WINTER STORMS


    On February 13, 2021, I issued Executive Order No. 21-02 declaring a state of
    emergency due to the threat to life, safety, property, and significant damage to
    infrastructure caused by severe winter storms. This declaration also recognized the
    extreme danger presented by these severe storms, which caused heavy snow and ice
    accumulation and high winds throughout the Willamette Valley and Columbia
    River Gorge. These winter storms have now resulted in critical transportation
    failures, loss of power and communications capabilities, and evacuations. In recent
    days, as power outages persist across Oregon, individuals have become and remain
    displaced in an effort to find power and warmth.


    ORS 401.965(5) empowers the Governor to declare an abnormal disruption of the
    market when any emergency prevents ready availability of essential consumer
    goods and services. My office has received reports that some displaced persons
    may be experiencing unusual increases in rates at lodging facilities. I am also
    concerned that that the winter storm emergency may prevent ready availability of
    other essential consumer goods and services.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       1. Having found that the ongoing effects of the winter storms present an
           emergency that prevents ready availability of essential consumer goods and
           services, I hereby declare that that an abnormal disruption of the market
           commenced at 12:00 a.m. on February 13, 2021, in all Oregon counties.


       2. Persons who believe that they have been subjected to unconscionably
          excessive prices for essential consumer goods and services due to this
           disruption should report that conduct to the Oregon Department of Justice
           Consumer Protection hotline, at 877-877-9392. (Consumers can also visit
           www.OregonConsumer.gov or reference the Oregon Department of
           Justice’s price gouging handout, at https://www.doj.state.or.us/wp-
           content/uploads/2020/04/price_gouging handout.pdf.) The Oregon
           Department of Justice has the authority to investigate unlawful trade
           practices.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
                                                                                          Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-03
    PAGE TWO




      3.   This order shall remain in effect for thirty days unless extended or
           terminated sooner.


           Done at Salem, Oregon this 16" day of February, 2021.




                                           Kt. Low
                                                 —
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR




                                         ATTEST:         |        Fo




                                         Shemia Fagan
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                  Contains
                                                                                  Recycled
                                                                                  Materials
