Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-30


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
     HARNEY COUNTY.


     At the request of Harney County (by Harney County Court Resolution 2024-32,
     dated October 25, 2024), and based on the recommendations of the Drought
     Readiness Council and input from the Water Supply Availability Committee dated
     November 5, 2024, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that long-term drought
     conditions as well as above normal temperature and below normal soil moisture
     conditions have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in
     Harney County.


     Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels suggest normal to
     above normal conditions however prolonged drought conditions reduce their
     impact on alleviating drought such that conditions are not projected to
     meaningfully improve for the remainder of the year. Drought is likely to have a
     significant economic impact on the agricultural, livestock, natural resource and
     recreational tourism sectors in Harney County.


     Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
     Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
     and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

     Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
     property, and the economic security ofthe citizens and businesses of these
     counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
     and is likely to continue to exist in Harney County.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

        I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Harney County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-30
     PAGE TWO



       Il.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Harney County as the Department and Commission determine
              necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


       Ill.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
              information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
              understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
              wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
              to 536.780.


       Ie     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
              assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
              current and projected conditions in Harney County.


              All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Harney County.


       Vi.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2024.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 22"! day of November, 2024.




                                                  [xHet
                                                Tina Kotek
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Hie
