Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-07


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    DESCHUTES, GRANT, LAKE, AND MALHEUR COUNTIES.

    At the request of Deschutes County (by Resolution No. 2022-021, dated March 16,
    2022), Grant County (by Resolution No. 22-11, dated April 6, 2022), Lake County
    (by resolution 2022-02C, dated April 5, 2022) and Malheur County (by Resolution
    Amended R22-09, recorded April 13, 2022), and based on the recommendations of
    the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply Availability Committee, and
    pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the low snowpack, low reservoir levels, and low
    streamflow have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in
    Deschutes, Grant, Lake and Malheur Counties.


    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, vineyard, recreation, tourism and natural resources sectors, as well as an
    impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for
    public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate
    precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
    expected to affect local growers and livestock, increase the potential for fire,
    shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Deschutes, Grant, Lake and Malheur Counties.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       It      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Deschutes, Grant, Lake
               and Malheur Counties.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-07
    PAGE TWO



      INL;   The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
             Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
             users in Deschutes, Grant, Lake and Malheur Counties as the
             Department and Commission determine necessary and appropriate in
             accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

      UNE    The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
             information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
             understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
             wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
             to 536.780.


      IV     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
             assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
             current and projected conditions in Deschutes, Grant, Lake and Malheur
             Counties.


             All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
             agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
             affected political subdivisions and water users in Deschutes, Grant,
             Lake and Malheur Counties.

      VI.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2022.

             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 25" day of April, 2022.

                                                 }/




                ©) I
                                               Kate Brown
                                               GOVERNOR




                                               ATTEST:     y >




                                               Shemia Fagan
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Contains
                                                                                      Recycled
