Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-17


     EXTENDING EXCUTIVE ORDER 25-08 DECLARING                        A STATE OF
     EMERGENCY IN WASCO COUNTY DUE TO THE ROWENA WILDFIRE

     On June 18, 2025, pursuant to ORS 401.165 ef seq., | found that a threat to life,
     safety, and property exists due to the wildfire that has caused a natural disaster in
     Wasco County and declared a state of emergency in Wasco County.


     Beginning June 11, 2025, and continuing, severe wildfire rolled through Wasco
     County causing extensive damage to homes and critical infrastructure; threatening
     life, safety, and property resulting in displacement of personnel; and a loss of power
     and communications within the region.


     On June 11, 2025 the fire resulted in a state conflagration and federal Fire
     Management Assistance Grant (FMAG) declarations, community evacuations, and
     threatened and damaged critical infrastructure, destroying homes and other
     structures. On June 18, 2025, the Wasco County Board of Commissioners declared
     a state of emergency due to the Rowena Wildfire and the threat to life, safety, and
     property that exists in Wasco County. Commission Order 25-048 further declared
     local resources were exhausted and immediate state and federal assistance was
     requested.


     On July 16, 2025, the Wasco County Board of Commissioners extended the county
     declaration of a state of emergency due to the Rowena Wildfire. The order declared
     that the hazardous conditions resulting from the Rowena Fire, including but not
     limited to threats to life, property, and natural resources, continue to pose a
     significant risk to the health and safety of Wasco County residents.
     State and local agencies continue to respond to requests for mass care and
     hazardous debris removal in support of this emergency. Damage assessment
     reports from this jurisdiction include major damage to homes and critical
     infrastructure resulting in significant hazardous debris posing a threat to life and
     safety.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED, CONTINUED AND ORDERED:

         1. The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (OEM) shall continue
               coordination under the State’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
               Plan for the use of personnel, equipment, technical expertise and
               contracting authority of all state agencies necessary to assess, alleviate,
               respond to, mitigate, and recover from conditions caused by this emergency.




                                                                                              Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-17
     PAGE TWO




       2.   In conformance with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and
            ORS chapter 401, state agencies are directed to provide resources and
            support requested by OEM to assist in the response to this emergency. Any
            local government requests for state resources must be submitted through
            county governing bodies to the Oregon Department of Emergency
            Management pursuant to ORS chapter 401. The Oregon Department of
            Human Services, Oregon Health Authority, Department of Environmental
            Quality and other state agencies are directed to work expeditiously to
            provide any assistance as directed by OEM that is deemed necessary to
            assist in the response to and recovery from this emergency, remove barriers
            to recovery, and to provide all necessary support to Wasco County response,
            recovery, and mitigation efforts.


            Persons who believe they have been subjected to unconscionably excessive
            prices for essential consumer goods due to this emergency are requested to
            report violations to the Oregon Department ofJustice Consumer Protection
            Services, which has the authority to investigate unlawful trade practices.

            This extension is limited to Wasco County at this time.


            Executive Order 25-08 was made by verbal proclamation at 7:10 p.m. on
            June 18, 2025, and signed on June 20, 2025, in Salem, Oregon.


            This state of emergency is continued and shall exist until 11:59 p.m.,
            November 2, 2025, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 30" day ofJuly, 2025.




                                                 Tina Kotek
                                                 GOVERNOR


                                                 ATTESF


                                                        Gil
                                                 Tobias Read
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE
