Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-01


DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN COOS, CURRY, DOUGLAS,
JACKSON, AND TILLAMOOK DUE TO A SEVERE STORM THAT INCLUDES
HEAVY RAIN, FLOODING, AND LANDSLIDES


Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that a threat to life, safety, property, and significant damage to
the state roads on the federal-aid highway system was caused by severe storms and have caused
disaster conditions in Coos, Curry, Douglas, Jackson, and Tillamook Counties. Beginning
December 1, 2023, and continuing through December 12, 2023, these storms resulted in heavy
rain, landslides, and erosion in various locations within these counties, leading to critical
transportation failures, which require significant effort to clean up and repair. The storm system
was so severe it caused two roads to collapse, Miami Foley and Sandlake located in Tillamook
County and the temporary closure of State Highway 101 and 26 due to flooding. The storm
system damaged state highways throughout these counties with scour, washouts, debris flows
and mudslides.


IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


    1.   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, and based on the facts described above, an emergency has
         occurred, and a state of emergency is declared for the above-listed counties from
         December 1, 2023, and continuing through December 12, 2023.


   2. The Oregon Department of Transportation shall provide appropriate assistance and seek
      federal resources to effect repair and reconstruction of $7 million dollars or more in
      damages and impact to the federal aid highway system in the above-listed counties.

   3.    This declaration is limited to the above-listed counties. It is limited to the provision of
         assistance by the Oregon Department of Transportation to repair and reconstruct eligible
         roadways that are part of the federal highway aid system in the above-listed counties.
         This declaration is not to be construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of
         emergency for other purposes.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 4"" day of January, 2024.


                                                  Cafe
                                               Tina Kotek
                                               GOVERNOR




                                          Sele: Grifes-Dilade
                                               LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE
