Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-05


    DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN HARNEY COUNTY
    DUE TO       FLOODING


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find a potential threat to life, safety, property, and
    significant damage to infrastructure exists due to flooding that has caused and
    continues to cause a state of emergency in Harney County and on the Burns Paiute
    Tribe’s reservation and properties, a sovereign tribal nation within the County.


    In March of this year Oregon experienced significant flooding across the State and
    continues to receive historical precipitation and snowmelt which exceeds capacity
    in streams, rivers, stormwater facilities, and wastewater facilities. Beginning March
    14, 2025, and continuing, the excessive flooding in Harney County has impacted
    critical infrastructure. Sewer system damage is occurring, and sewage is mixing
    with flood water and creating environmental health hazards. Bridges, culverts, and
    public roadways have become inundated with water, and this is disrupting
    emergency response, local commerce, and essential services, and impacting human
    health. Based on historical trends and current, record-setting snowpack, river
    levels will remain elevated for at least the next few weeks. The community may
    experience ongoing flooding impacts until flow rates recede.


    Pursuant to 401.165 ef seq., I find that a state of emergency exists in Harney
    County due to impacts from flooding and support is needed for the Burns Paiute
    Tribe, a sovereign tribal nation within the County, due to ongoing threats to life,
    safety, property, and infrastructure.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

            1.   The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (OEM) shall
                 activate the State’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and
                 coordinate necessary access to and use of personnel and equipment of
                 all state agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate,
                 and recover from conditions caused by this emergency. OEM shall
                 coordinate all essential protective measures in support of identified
                 disaster areas to protect lives, property, and environment. All
                 Oregonians are to heed the direction of emergency officials with regard
                 to this emergency in order to protect their safety.

           2.    Inconformance with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
                 and ORS chapter 401, state agencies are directed to provide resources
                 and support requested by OEM to assist in the response to this
                 emergency.
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon


       EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-05
       PAGE TWO




            3.   The Oregon Health Authority shall take action and provide any
                 assistance deemed necessary to assist in the response to this emergency
|                and to provide all necessary support to Harney County, whereas a
|                public health emergency may exist and mitigate impacts to the public
|                from hazardous materials in waterways.


            4.   This determination of an emergency is limited to Harney County and
                 support to the Burns Paiute Tribe, a sovereign tribal nation within the
                 county. It is not to be construed as a comprehensive declaration or
                 proclamation of emergency for other purposes. It is limited to the use
                 of state resources and personnel required by the emergency, to request
                 assistance through the Emergency Management Assistance Compact, if
                 needed, and to allow state agencies to suspend any order or rule of the
                 agency if strict compliance with the provisions of the order or rule
                 would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the
                 flooding emergency. Any local government requests for state
                 assistance must be submitted through county governing bodies to OEM
                 pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.


            5.   This order was made by verbal proclamation at 1:11 pm on the 29" day
                 of March 2025, and signed this 1*' day of April 2025, in Salem,
                 Oregon.


            6.   This state of emergency shall exist until 11:59 p.m., April 30, 2025,
                 unless extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.


                 Done at Salem, Oregon, this 1*' day of April, 2025.




                                                        Pate
                                                  Tina Kotek
                                                  GOVERNOR


                                                  ATTEST:           : Uaf’
                                                  Tobias Read          G                 es
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE
