Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-22


   CONSTRUCTING SEISMICALLY RESILIENT STATE BUIDINGS


   WHEREAS, Oregon faces a significant risk of major earthquake, with a 16-22% chance
   that a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake of magnitude 8.7+ will occur in Oregon in
   the next 50 years, a 42% chance that a partial rupture of the Cascadia fault will result in
   an earthquake of magnitude 7.4+, and a 100% likelihood that a major earthquake will
   occur in the future.


   WHEREAS, a strong earthquake would cause many structures to collapse and create
   widespread disruption to utility and transportation networks.


   WHEREAS, the earthquake and resulting damage would cause thousands of injuries and
   deaths and immediately constitute the most devastating and widespread emergency in the
   history of Oregon.


   WHEREAS, the State must be prepared to assist Oregonians on their worst days.


   WHEREAS, the State is an essential partner in local emergency response and recovery.


   WHEREAS, safe staging areas and workspaces are essential to response and early                     |
   recovery actions.                                                                                  |


   WHEREAS, communities in every region of Oregon require facilities where employees
   can report to work immediately after the earthquake to support life-saving activities and
   assist in recovery.


   WHEREAS, the State of Oregon must work systematically to modernize its assets and
   prepare to respond to earthquakes and other disasters.


   WHEREAS, workers are the most essential component of emergency response, and the
   state must protect employees from seismic hazard.


   NOW, THEREFORE, I, TINA KOTEK, Governor of the State of Oregon, by virtue of
   the power and authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the State of
   Oregon, do hereby issue this order to become effective immediately:.




                                                                                                 HI
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-22
   PAGE TWO


   IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


     I.   All State of Oregon-owned buildings replaced or constructed after September 8,
          2025, that have a gross square footage of 10,000 or more square feet, shall be
          constructed to building code seismic risk category IV (essential facility).
          The State of Oregon will systematically improve all facilities where employees
          work to achieve, at a minimum, current building standards for life safety,
          permitting employees to exit safely following an earthquake.
              a.   By 2060, all workplaces leased by agencies in the Executive Branch will
                   meet current building standards for life safety.
              b.   Executive Branch agencies shall develop facility seismic safety plans in
                   coordination with Capitol Projects Advisory Board with a 2060 timeline,
                   and prioritize requests to implement those plans in their agency budget
                   requests.
              c.   Buildings that cannot be retrofitted cost-effectively will be repurposed,
                   replaced, or surplussed as part of ongoing portfolio management.
          When implementing life safety improvements, the following structures will be
          prioritized:
              a.   Buildings identified in state continuity of operations plans
              b.   Office buildings over 50,000 square feet
              c.   Structures supporting activities of first responders
              d.   Buildings classified as institutional housing or billeting
              e.   Strategic locations by region.
          The Oregon Department of Administrative Services is directed to establish
          reasonable standards, plans, timelines, and processes to accomplish these
          objectives under the Statewide Facilities Planning Process established in ORS
          DIO 2200


          Done at Salem, Oregon, this 8"" day of September, 2025.


                                                      | aMba
                                                  Tina Kotek
                                                  GOVERNOR




                                                  Tobias Read
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                               Hy
