Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-08

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    JACKSON COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW SNOW PACK, LACK
    OF PRECIPITATION, LOW STREAMFLOW, AND LOW RESERVOIR
    LEVELS

    At the request of Jackson County (by Order No. 45-21, dated March 31, 2021) and
    based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water
    Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the lack of
    precipitation, low snow pack, low streamflow, and low reservoir levels have caused
    or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in this county.

    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, vineyard, ranch, forest,
    recreation, drinking water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish
    and wildlife and other natural resources which are dependent on adequate
    precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
    expected to affect local growers, and increased the potential for fire, a loss of
    economic stability, shortened growing season, and decreased water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal and
    the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
    declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to continue
    to exist in Jackson County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Jackson County.

       I.       The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Jackson County as the Department and Commission determine
                is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
                536.780.

       Ill.   | The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
                information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
                understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
                wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
                to 536.780.




                                                                                            Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-08
    PAGE TWO



      IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Jackson County.

      V.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Jackson County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 13" day of April, 2021.



                                               —
                                        Kt: Show
                                      Kate Brown
                                      GOVERNOR




                                      ATTEST:       Y ay




                                      Shemia Fagan
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Contains
                                                                                      Recycled
