Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-13


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LAKE
    AND SHERMAN COUNTIES.


    At the request of Lake County (by Commission Resolution and Order 2023-02,
    dated April 19, 2023) and Sherman County (by Commission Resolution and Order
    05-04-2023, dated April 19, 2023), and based on the recommendations of the
    Drought Readiness Council and input from the Water Supply Availability
    Committee dated May 12, 2023, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that low
    streamflow, low precipitation, and low soil moisture have caused or will cause
    natural and economic disaster conditions in Lake and Sherman Counties.


    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, vineyard, recreation, tourism, and natural resources sectors, as well as an
    impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for
    public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate
    precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
    expected to affect local growers and livestock, increase the potential for fire,
    shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Lake and Sherman Counties.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       iL      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Lake and Sherman
               Counties.




                                                                                           HESS
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-13
    PAGE TWO




      IE    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
            users in Lake and Sherman Counties as the Department and
            Commission determine necessary and appropriate in accordance with
            ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


      UI.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.


      IW    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Lake and Sherman Counties.


            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Lake and Sherman
            Counties.


      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2023.


               Done at Salem, Oregon, this 25th day of May, 2023.




                                                 (fe
                                              Tina Kotek
                                              GOVERNOR


                                              ATTEST:




                                                Warf        Nope
                                              ACTING ieee ee:OF STATE
                                              Cheryl Meyérd



                                                                                    HS
