Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58


    ENHANCED HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN
    EMPLOYER-PROVIDED HOUSING DURING AGRICULTURAL OFF
    SEASON IN RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK

    Since January 2020, the State of Oregon has been engaged in responding to the
    public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19). As the
    threat escalated, the State’s response elevated to meet the threat. On March 8,
    2020, I declared a state of emergency pursuant to ORS 401.165 ef seq., and
    directed certain immediate response actions.


    During March and April 2020, as COVID-19 continued to spread around the world,
    I took a series of actions aimed at slowing the spread of the virus, and to mitigate
    the public health and economic impacts of the pandemic. Those actions helped
    prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 in Oregon, and increased the state’s
    preparedness to live with this virus until a vaccine or cure can be found.

    Following the success of these early measures, in late April and early May 2020, I
    began to take steps to ease the restrictions that had been imposed in March and
    April. I signed executive orders directing the State to begin a data-driven, phased
    reopening. This process has been gradual and cautious. In response to rising case
    numbers during the summer, I imposed additional measures, including face-
    covering requirements for individuals. Outbreaks and community spread in certain
    counties also have required us to reimpose restrictions at times, to maintain public
    health and safety. Although Oregon has been able to cautiously reopen sectors of
    its economy, this virus remains very dangerous. As of today, there are at least
    38,406 cases and 635 deaths in Oregon, with more than 8 million cases and
    222,000 deaths from COVID-19 nationwide. Continued work is necessary to bring
    virus levels down to where it is safe for K-12 schools across the state to fully
    reopen for in-person instruction, among other critical priorities.


    It is by now very clear that this virus has had a disproportionate impact on
    communities of color. We have also seen outbreaks spread quickly in crowded
    housing, and in settings where workers live together and work in close quarters.
    Due to the convergence of these factors, agricultural Labor Housing and Related
    Facilities and Labor Camps are an area of particular concern when it comes to the
    impacts and spread of COVID-19. While the population of workers occupying this
    housing is lower during the off season, there are still a variety of critical farm labor
    activities that occur during the October to April timeframe. The health and safety
    requirements set forth in this Executive Order mirror the requirements that have
    been in place for the last six months, and are intended to help preserve the health




                                                                                               Contains
                                                                                               Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE TWO


    and safety of these workers, their employers, and the surrounding communities, and
    to allow this critical work to go forward in a safe manner.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    Pursuant to my emergency powers under ORS 401.168, ORS 401.175, ORS
    401.188, ORS 401.192, and ORS 433.441, and pursuant to the emergency
    declaration made in Executive Order 20-03, I am issuing the following directives:


    1)   Applicability:


         a) The requirements set forth in this Executive Order apply to all temporary
            worker housing or other employer-provided housing if such housing is
            currently covered by OAR 437-004-1120 “Agricultural Labor Housing and
            Related Facilities” or by CFR 1910.142 and OAR 437-002-0142 “Labor
            Camps.”


         b) The requirements set forth in this Executive Order do not apply to:


            i)   Hotels or motels that provide similar housing commercially to the
                 public on the same terms as they do to workers. This includes hotels or
                 motels that have been temporarily closed due to the current emergency,
                 but that restore their operations on a limited basis to allow employers to
                 house workers in the facility, provided that the following conditions are
                 met:


                 (1) The hotel/motel facility must be licensed and meet the other
                    requirements in Chapter 333, Division 29, Travelers'
                    Accommodation.


                 (2) The rooms provided must maintain the configuration typically
                    offered to travelers (while this does not preclude changing the
                    arrangement of beds, it does preclude the addition of bunk beds or
                    other measures to increase the occupancy of the room).


                 (3) Room assignment must ensure privacy and separation for families
                    and to unrelated occupants of different genders.


                 (4) The occupied rooms must continue to receive regular services for
                    cleaning and for the laundry of linens used by guests.




                                                                                              Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE THREE



                 (5) The rooms must not be modified to include kitchen facilities not
                     already part of the room as previously available to guests. Note:
                     Because such facilities are exempt from this rule, the presence of a
                     pre-existing kitchenette or other food preparation facility does not
                     require the square footage requirements of the rule.


              ii) Accommodations subject to licensing as manufactured dwelling parks,
                 organizational camps, traveler’s accommodations or recreation vehicle
                 parks and open to the general public on the same terms.


              iii) Manufactured homes or dwellings being moved regularly from place to
                 place because of the work when at parks or camps meant for parking
                 mobile vehicles and open to the general public on the same terms.


    2)   Definitions:


         a)   ‘Housing Operator” means an operator of housing covered by this
              Executive Order.


         b) “Occupant” means a person residing in housing covered by this Executive
              Order, whether that person is an employee of the housing operator or not.


    3) Physical Distancing Officer: Housing operators must identify one or more
         individuals who will be responsible for identifying appropriate physical
         distancing and sanitation measures and ensuring that such measures are
         implemented.


    4)   General Physical Distancing Requirements. Housing operators must plan and
         implement housing operation activities so that unrelated occupants will not
         need to be within 6 feet of each other. In the event that the housing operator
         determines and can demonstrate that it is impossible to structure activities to
         avoid such contact, contact within 6 feet must be minimized and the housing
         operator must implement appropriate additional sanitation and protective
         measures (including the use of masks, face shields, or face coverings when
         appropriate by the affected employees).


    5)   Toilets: Having a limited number of toilet facilities can encourage crowding,
         which in turn promotes the spread of COVID-19. Accordingly, during this
         emergency, housing operators must:




                                                                                            Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE FOUR



       a) Provide one toilet facility for each 10 occupants or fraction thereof. If the
          housing operator can demonstrate that market availability prevents
          immediate compliance with this provision, the operator must provide as
          many toilet facilities as possible until the ratio has been satisfied.

       b) Portable toilets or chemical toilets must be sanitized three times a day, and
          plumbed common-use toilet facilities must be sanitized at least twice a day,
            or more often, if necessary.


    6) Beds: Housing operators must ensure the following:


       a) Each sleeping room without double bunk beds must have at least 50 square
          feet of floor space per occupant. Where there are double bunk beds for
          related individuals, provide 40 square feet per occupant. Do not use triple
          bunks, and do not allow the use of double bunk beds by unrelated
            individuals.


       b) Beds must be arranged so that at least one of the following is true:


            i)   Beds and cots must be spaced at least six (6) feet apart between frames
                 in all directions and arranged so that occupants sleep head to toe; OR


            ii) Beds and cots must be separated by a bed length, floor to near ceiling
                temporary non-permeable barrier (for example, using plexiglass, heavy
                plastic, lightweight wood sheeting, etc.) placed perpendicular to wall
                such that a 28-inch minimum aisle remains available to the occupant of
                 each bed; OR


            iii) A housing operator may implement other effective engineering and/or
                 administrative controls to modify this requirement with prior approval
                 by Oregon OSHA.


       c)   Ifa housing operator finds it difficult to space the beds or to provide an
            impermeable barrier, then the housing operator is allowed to devise an
            effective engineering or administrative control to provide equivalent
            protection. Housing operators who devise an alternate protective scheme
            must have it approved by Oregon OSHA before implementation




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE FIVE



    7) High-contact areas/sanitation:


       a)   Housing operators must clean the facilities and equipment before each
            occupancy. They must also ensure that high-touch or high-contact surfaces
            and areas in common use facilities are sanitized at least two times daily (if
            housing occupants are assigned this task, it must be treated as a work
            assignment rather than a voluntary action). Such surfaces include, but are
            not limited to: door handles, controls and adjustable shower heads, paper
            towel dispensers, handles on portable containers, cans, garbage bins and
            dumpsters.


       b) Housing operators must provide cleaning materials at no cost to occupants,
            allowing occupants to clean and sanitize their living areas regularly.

    8) Requirements if a resident in ag housing contracts COVID


       a) The housing operator must comply with existing law regarding
          communicable disease reporting, including OAR 333-018- 0000, Who Must
          Report and OAR 333-018-0015, What To Report And When.


       b) The housing operator must implement policies and procedures to identify
            and isolate sick occupants, including:


            i)    Suspected COVID-19 cases must be isolated with sleeping, eating, and
                 bathroom accommodations that are separate from others. Sick people
                 should be isolated from others, have adequate hygiene facilities, and be
                 taken care of by only one person in the household. If such isolation is
                 not possible, follow guidance provided by the Oregon Health Authority
                 or the local public health authority to make appropriate arrangements.


            ii) Confirmed COVID-19 cases must be isolated and only housed with
                 other confirmed cases and must have separate bathroom, cooking and
                 eating facilities from people who have not been diagnosed with
                 COVID-19. Sick people should be isolated from others, have adequate
                 hygiene facilities, and be taken care of by only one person in the
                 household. If such isolation is not possible, follow guidance provided by
                 the Oregon Health Authority or the local public health authority to make
                 appropriate arrangements.




                                                                                             Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE SIX



           iii) The housing operator must ensure that food and water is provided and
               monitor the safety of occupants in isolation at the operator’s facility or
               ensure that these services are provided if isolated at another facility.


    9) Directives not exclusive: The directives in this Executive Order are in addition
       to any health and safety regulations governing the housing covered by this
       Executive Order that may exist or be promulgated while this executive order is
       in effect.


    10) Interpretation: It is my intent that the requirements of this executive order be
       interpreted consistently with the comparable requirements in OAR 437-001-
       0749, which expires October 24, 2020. To that end, I delegate to Oregon
       OSHA authority to issue guidance, frequently asked questions, and respond to
       and resolve inquiries regarding this Executive Order, as needed. Any
       interpretive or enforcement guidance issued by Oregon OSHAin         relation to the
       expiring OAR 437-001-0749 will remain in effect for the duration of this
       executive order.


    11) Enforcement. This Executive Order and any agency guidance issued by Oregon
       Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OR-OSHA) pursuant to this
       Executive Order at the Governor’s direction are public health laws, as defined
       in ORS 431A.005, and may be enforced as permitted under ORS 431A.010. In
       addition to any other penalty that may be imposed under applicable laws, any
       person, business, or entity found to be in violation of this Executive Order or
       guidance issued pursuant to this Executive Order also is subject to the penalties
       described in ORS 401.990. These enforcement mechanisms are in addition to
       any other private rights of action or other enforcement mechanism, including
       but not limited to enforcement by Oregon OSHA that may exist in statute or at
       common law, or under federal law.


    12) Discretion; No Right of Action. Any decision made by the Governor pursuant
       to this Executive Order is made at her sole discretion. This Executive Order is
       not intended to create, and does not create, any individual right, privilege, or
       benefit, whether substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
       any party against the State of Oregon, its agencies, departments, or any officers,
       employees, or agents thereof.




                                                                                              Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-58
    PAGE SEVEN


    13) Legal Effect. This Executive Order is issued under the authority conferred to
        the Governor by ORS 401.165 to 401.236. Pursuant to ORS 401.192(1), the
        directives set forth in this Executive Order shall have the full force and effect of
        law, and any existing laws, ordinances, rules and orders shall be inoperative to
        the extent they are inconsistent with this exercise of the Governor’s emergency
       powers.



    14) Effective Dates. This Executive Order is effective immediately, and remains in
        effect until April 30, 2021, unless extended or terminated earlier by the
       Governor.


       Done at Salem, Oregon this 23" day of October, 2020.



                                            Kit. Leow
                                                    —
                                           Kate Brown
                                           GOVERNOR


                                           ATTEST:




                                                 (eee
                                           Bev Clarno
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                               Contains
