Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-10


     DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO EXTREME HEAT


     Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 401.165 et. seq., I find that a threat to
     life, safety, and property exists due to an Extreme Heat Event that is bringing far
     above-normal temperatures throughout the state of Oregon.

     Beginning on July 5, 2024, and continuing, an Extreme Heat Event has the
     potential to cause loss of life and presents health dangers to all Oregonians. State,
     local and tribal agencies continue to respond to requests for emergency cooling
     shelters, transportation assistance, distribution oflife-sustaining supplies including
     water and medical services. This Emergency Heat Event is also placing significant
     strain on Oregon’s energy grid and critical infrastructure, posing a risk of utility
     outages and equipment and transportation disruptions. For these reasons, I hereby
     declare a statewide State of Emergency due to Extreme Heat.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


         1. The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (OEM) shall
            coordinate access to and use of personnel and equipment of all state
            agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate or recover from
            conditions caused by this emergency. OEM shall coordinate all essential
            protective measures in support of identified disaster areas to protect lives,
            property and the environment. All Oregonians are to heed the direction of
            emergency officials with regard to this emergency in order to protect their
            safety.
        2. The Oregon National Guard, Oregon Department of Human Services,
           Oregon Health Authority, Oregon State Police, the Oregon Public Utility
           Commission (PUC), and other state agencies are directed to provide any
           assistance requested by OEM that is necessary to assist in the response to
           this emergency, and to provide all necessary support to statewide response,
            recovery, and mitigation efforts.
        3. This determination of an Extreme Heat Event emergency is statewide. It is
           not to be construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of
           emergency for other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and
           personnel required by this emergency, to request assistance through the
           Emergency Management Assistance Compact and SERV-OR if needed, and
           to allow state agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the




                                                                                              Contains
        Office of the Governor
        State of Oregon


             EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-10
             PAGE TWO




    |                 agency if strict compliance with the provisions ofthe order or rule would in
    |                 any way prevent, hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the emergency.
    |                 Local requests for state resources must be submitted through county
                      governing bodies to OEM pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.
|               4.    Persons who believe they have been subjected to unconscionably excessive
|                     prices for bottled water or other essential consumer goods due to this
                      emergency are requested to report violations to the Oregon Department of
                      Justice Consumer Protection Services, which has the authority to investigate
                      unlawful trade practices.
                 5.   Electricity consumers in Oregon are encouraged to conserve and curtail
                      energy consumption to the greatest extent possible to avoid power
|                     disruptions and reduce the strain on energy grid infrastructure.
|               6.    Pursuant to ORS 401.378, certain public employees may be eligible for
|                     leaves of absence to provide disaster relief services in Oregon and are
                      directed to discuss requested leaves with their employer.


             This emergency is effective as of 9:00 a.m. on July 5, 2024, and shall exist until
             11:59 p.m. on July 9, 2024, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 5" day ofJuly, 2024.



                                                               Of        [CLE
                                                            Tina Kotek
                                                            GOVERNOR
                                                          aTEST:               ;         e      ;



                                                            LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                            SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                                     HER
