Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-12


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    BAKER COUNTY.


    At the request of Baker County (through Baker County Board of Commissioners
    Proclamation, dated June 18, 2025), and based on the recommendations of the
    Drought Readiness Council and input from the Water Supply Availability
    Committee dated July 7, 2025, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that long-term,
    persistent drought conditions as well as above normal temperature and below
    normal precipitation, streamflows, and soil moisture conditions have caused or will
    cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Baker County.


    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels suggest that Baker                    |
    County drought conditions are unlikely to improve in the near-term. Drought is                    |
    likely to have a significant economic impact on the agricultural, livestock, natural
    resource and recreational tourism sectors in Baker County.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Baker County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       I       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Baker County.




                                                                                           Contales
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-12
    PAGE TWO




      Il.     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Baker County as the Department and Commission determine
              necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


      Ill.   | The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
               information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
               understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
               wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
              to 536.780.


      IV.     The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
              assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
              current and projected conditions in Baker County.

      V.      All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Baker County.


      VI.‘    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2025.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 10" day of July, 2025.




                                               Oi
                                               Tf{na Kotek
                                                           — [CHE
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ALLESI;




                                                Tobias Read        ze
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                       HE
