Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-07

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    KLAMATH COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW SNOW PACK AND
    LACK OF PRECIPITATION



    At the request of Klamath County (by Resolution 2021-012, dated March 9, 2021)
    and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the
    Water Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the
    lack of precipitation and low snow pack have caused or will cause natural and
    economic disaster conditions in this county.

    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, ranch, forest, recreation,
    drinking water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish and
    wildlife and other natural resources which are dependent on adequate precipitation
    and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to affect local
    growers, and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability, shortened
    growing season, and decreased water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.

   Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
   property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
   declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to continue
    to exist in Klamath County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Klamath County.

       NE      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Klamath County as the Department and Commission determine
               is necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to
               536.780.

       Ill.   | The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
                information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
                understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
                wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
               to 536.780.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-07
   PAGE TWO



     IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
           assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
           current and projected conditions in Klamath County.

     We    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
           agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
           affected political subdivisions and water users in Klamath County.

     VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 31° day of March, 2021.




                                             —
                                       Kit Kou
                                     Kate Brown
                                     GOVERNOR



                                     ATTEST;:     = ,        re,




                                     Shemia Fagan
                                     SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                     Contains
