Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-37

    DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN OREGON DUE TO
    SEVERE WINTER WEATHER THAT INCLUDES SNOW
    ACCUMULATION AND SUSTAINED TEMPERATURES BELOW
    FREEZING ACROSS THE STATE

    Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find a potential threat to life, safety, property, and
    significant damage to infrastructure exists due to severe winter weather across
    Oregon. The National Weather Service has issued multiple winter storm watches,
    warnings, and winter weather advisories throughout our state. Beginning
    December 24, 2021, and continuing, this severe weather is expected to bring heavy
    snow and sustained temperatures below freezing, resulting in critical transportation
    failures and disruptions to power and communications infrastructure.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

        1.   The Office of Emergency Management (OEM) shall coordinate access to
             and use of personnel and equipment of all state agencies necessary to
             assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate, or recover from conditions caused by
             this emergency. OEM shall coordinate all essential protective measures in
             support of identified disaster areas to protect lives, property, and the
             environment. All citizens are to heed the direction of emergency officials
             with regard to this emergency in order to protect their safety.

       2. The Oregon Department of Human Services, Oregon National Guard,
          Oregon State Police, Oregon Department of Transportation, the Oregon
          Public Utility Commission, and other state agencies are directed to provide
          any assistance as requested by OEM that is deemed necessary to assist in
             the response to this emergency and to provide all necessary support to
             statewide response, recovery, and mitigation efforts.

       3. This determination of a severe winter weather emergency is statewide. It is
          not to be construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of
          emergency for other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and
          personnel required by the emergency, to request assistance through the
          Emergency Management Assistance Compact, if needed, and to allow state
          agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if strict
             compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would in any way
             prevent, hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the severe winter weather
             emergency. Any local government requests for state resources must be
             submitted through county governing bodies to the Office of Emergency
             Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.




                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-37
    PAGE TWO




      4.   This state of emergency shall exist until 11:59 p.m., January 3, 2022, unless
           extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.


           Done at Salem, Oregon, this 23" day of December, 2021.


                                                   aed    w
                                                   Kite ho—
                                                Kate Brown
                                                 GOVERNOR



                                                ATTEST: Seta


                                                 Shemia Fagan
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Recycled
                                                                                           Materials
