Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-23


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
     JEFFERSON COUNTY.


     At the request of Jefferson County (by Jefferson County Board of Commissioners
     letter dated September 16, 2025 and Order No. 0-114-25 dated August 6, 2025) and
     based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and input from
     the Water Supply Availability Committee dated September 18, 2025 and pursuant
     to ORS 536.740, | find that long-term moderate and severe drought conditions as
     well as above normal temperature and below normal precipitation, streamflow,
     groundwater and soil moisture conditions have caused or will cause natural and
     economic disaster conditions in Jefferson County.


     Forecasts suggest that Jefferson County will experience above normal temperatures
     and precipitation over the near and long-term, following an extended period during
     spring and early summer with drier and warmer than normal conditions. Additional
     precipitation may provide some level of drought relief, however projected
     precipitation levels are unlikely to significantly improve drought conditions that
     have developed from precipitation deficits since April.   Drought is likely to have a
     significant economic impact on the agricultural, livestock, natural resource,
     recreation, and tourism sectors in Jefferson County.


     Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
     Department of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire
     Marshal, and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


     Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of people,
     property, and the economic security ofthe citizens and businesses of this county.
     I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely
     to continue to exist in Jefferson County.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        lk.     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Jefferson County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-23
     PAGE TWO




       Il.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Jefferson County as the Department and Commission determine
              necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


       Ill.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
              information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
              understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
              wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
              to 536.780.


       IV.    The Oregon Department of Emergency Management is directed to
              coordinate and assist as needed with assessment and mitigation
              activities to address current and projected conditions in Jefferson
              County.


              All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Jefferson County.


       Vi.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2025.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 29" day of September, 2025.




                                                   OC, [ie
                                                Tina Kotek
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATT.
                                                           4




                                                       Gl
                                                Tobias Read
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE
