Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-35


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
    THREAT OF WILDFIRE


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165 et seq., I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire
    danger situation. Much of the State is now in extreme fire danger and red flag
    warnings have been issued for hot, dry, windy conditions and dry thunderstorms.
    We have experienced wildfires this season that resulted in evacuations, threatened
    critical infrastructure, and destroyed homes and other structures. Our neighboring
    states of Washington, California, Nevada, and Idaho, continue to experience similar
    fires and weather. The extended forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and
    dry conditions, resulting in imminent threat of fire over a broad area of the State.


    The Oregon Department of Forestry is heavily engaged in initial and extended
    wildfire attack, and National Interagency Teams are currently deployed in Oregon.
    Regional compacts are also being utilized for the deployment of specific wildland
    fire resources to Oregon. New and existing fire threats elevate the need for
    immediate access to state resources including firefighting aircraft. This threat is
    not likely to recede in the near future. It is critically important that National Guard
    resources be positioned to expedite requested resources and respond effectively to
    these dangerous and dynamic conditions,


    Furthermore, Oregon continues to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak, which will
    add complexity to wildland firefighting and operations to protect Oregonians
    whose homes or businesses may be threatened by wildfire.


    Therefore, I hereby declare a statewide State of Emergency due to the imminent
    threat of wildfire.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


     1.   All agencies of the state government will utilize and employ state personnel,
          equipment, and facilities for any and all activities as requested by the Oregon
          Department of Forestry and the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal, and
          coordinated by the Oregon Office of Emergency Management, to respond to or
          mitigate the effects of the wildfire emergency. The Oregon National Guard will
          deploy and redeploy firefighting resources as needed and in accordance with
          Operations Agreement Smokey 2020 throughout the remainder of the fire
          season based upon threat and resource shortfalls. All citizens are to heed the
          advice of emergency officials with regard to this emergency in order to protect
          their safety.




                                                                                              Contains
                                                                                              Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-35
    PAGE TWO


    PE   Incident managers, firefighters, emergency managers, evacuation center and
         shelter workers, and all other emergency responders and support personnel
         should take every possible precaution when responding to wildfires to prevent
         the spread of COVID-19 or other communicable diseases while protecting our
         communities from the threat of wildfire. The Oregon Health Authority will
         provide guidance and assist with mitigating the spread of COVID-19 at
         wildland fire facilities and camps, emergency shelters, and evacuation centers.


         This determination of a wildfire emergency is statewide. It is not to be
         construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for
         other purposes.   It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire
         management required by the emergency, to request assistance through the
         Emergency Management Assistance Compact if needed, and to allow state
         agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if strict
         compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would in any way prevent,
         hinder, or delay mitigating the effects of the wildfire emergency. Any local
         government requests for state resources must be submitted through county
         governing bodies to the Office of Emergency Management pursuant to ORS
         Chapter 401.


         This order was made by verbal proclamation at 10:53 a.m. on the 19th day of
         August, 2020.


         This order shall remain in effect until November 1, 2020, or until the threat is
         significantly relieved or the fire season ends, as determined by the Governor.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 20" day of August, 2020.




                                                       Kt Kou
                                                    Kate Brown
                                                    GOVERNOR


                                                    ATTEST:



                                                         Ga Cone
                                                    Bev Clarno
                                                     SECRETARY OF STATE



                                                                                                Contains
                                                                                                Recycled
