Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-24


  DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN HARNEY, AND
  MALHEUR DUE TO A SEVERE STORM THAT INCLUDES FLOODING, AND
  LANDSLIDES


  Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that a threat to life, safety, property, and significant
  damage to the state roads on the federal-aid highway system was caused by severe storms
  and have caused disaster conditions in Harney, and Malheur counties. Beginning June 11,
  2023, and continuing through June 19, 2023, these severe storms have resulted in heavy
  rain, flooding, and landslides within these counties leading to critical transportation
  failures and disruption to energy and communications infrastructure. The storm system
  damage was so severe it resulted in the closure of Highway 20 completely for five days
  due to scour, washouts, debris flows and mudslides which required significant efforts to
  cleanup and repair damage.


  IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


     1.   Pursuant to ORS 401.165, and based on the facts described above, an emergency
          has occurred, and a state of emergency is declared for the above-listed counties
          from June 11, 2023, and continuing through June 19, 2023.

     2.   The Oregon Department of Transportation shall provide appropriate assistance
          and seek federal resources to effect repair and reconstruction of $1.2 million
          dollars or more in damages and impact to the federal aid highway system in the
          above-listed counties.


     3.   This declaration is limited to the above-listed counties. It is limited to the
          provision of assistance by the Oregon Department of Transportation to repair and
          reconstruct eligible roadways that are part of the federal highway aid system in
          the above-listed counties. This declaration is not to be construed as a
          comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes.

          Done at Salem, Oregon, this 31‘' day of October, 2023.


                                                   Of        [Ha
                                               Tina Kotek
                                               GOVERNOR


                                               ESI:




                                            / LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE



                                                                                             Contains
