Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-09


PERSONAL ELECTRONIC DEVICE POLICY                       FOR SCHOOL DISTRICTS


WHEREAS, research shows that personal electronic device use leads to negative impacts on
young people’s mental health and self-esteem, with studies highlighting that adolescents spend
more than 4 hours per day on social media with the highest frequency users reporting poor or
very poor mental health.


WHEREAS, across the nation, research shows students are facing increased mental health
impacts such as loneliness, anxiety, depression, self-harm, and suicide due to increased personal
electronic device and social media usage.


WHEREAS, it is crucial the State assumes leadership to take necessary actions to protect the
mental health and well-being of Oregon students.


WHEREAS, every student in Oregon should be fully engaged in the act of learning and have
access to a distraction-free learning environment.


WHEREAS, administrators, educators, and school staff deserve to be supported to create the
best learning environments for students with as many barriers removed as possible to promote
student success.


WHEREAS, the Oregon Department of Education released statewide guidance, Fostering
Student Learning, Well-Being, and Belonging: Guidance for School Cell Phone Policies, to
school districts in October 2024 to support them in adopting such a policy.

WHEREAS, while several districts across the State have taken steps to implement personal
electronic device policies, not all districts have established policies to support addressing the
mental health crisis and increasing student learning.

WHEREAS, the State of Oregon cannot achieve improved academic outcomes in reading, math,
and other studies if students are not able to focus on learning when they are in school.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, TINA KOTEK, Governor of the State of Oregon and the Oregon
Superintendent of Public Instruction, by virtue of the power and authority vested in me by the
Constitution and statutes of the State of Oregon, do hereby issue this order to become effective
immediately:
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

_ EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-09
PAGE TWO


IT IS ORDERED AND DIRECTED:


   ilk   The State of Oregon establishes a personal electronic device policy for all Oregon public
         school districts with the goal of supporting every student to have the best opportunity for
         academic success.


         Definition: “Personal electronic device” means any portable, electrically powered device
         that is capable of making and receiving calls and text messages and accessing the internet
         independently from the school’s network infrastructure. This does not include a laptop
         computer or other device required to support academic activities.


         Policy Requirements: Every Oregon school district is required to have a policy that shall
         prohibit the use of personal electronic devices by students from the start of regular
         instructional hours until the end of regular instructional hours. The policy must be
         adopted no later than October 31, 2025. Additionally:
            a.   The policy must be effective no later than January 1, 2026.
            b.   The policy must provide clarity on how personal electronic devices will be stored
                 during the school day.
            c.   The policy may exclude time when students are not on school grounds and are not
                 under the supervision of school personnel other than a school bus driver.
            d.   The policy must provide for the use of a personal electronic device by a student
                 when the use complies with the terms of:
                    i.   The student’s medical provider’s order for the care and treatment of a
                         medical condition.
                   ii.   The student’s individualized education program, as defined in ORS
                         343.035 or an education plan developed for the student in accordance with
                         section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794.
                  ili.   A written exemption provided for the student based on a process and
                         guidelines adopted by the school district to allow school building
                         administrators to accommodate the individual circumstances of a student
                         or to further specific educational outcomes for a student.
            e.   The policy must provide direction to school personnel regarding actions that may
                 be taken when a student violates requirements regarding the use of personal
                 electronic devices under the policy. Allowed actions may not authorize or
                 otherwise result in a student losing instructional time, which includes suspension
                 or expulsion.




                                                                                                       HE
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

 EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-09
 PAGE THREE


           f.   The policy must be posted on the school district web site and made available to:
                   Ih   School district personnel
                  ii.   Students
                 ili.   Parents and guardians
                 iv.    Partners who are in the school building during the school day
                  V.    Oregon Department of Education


   4.   Monitoring: The Oregon Department of Education shall monitor the progress of each
        district implementing this policy.


The Order shall remain in effect until the actions set forth above are implemented or the
Governor directs otherwise.


Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2nd day of July, 2025.




                                                Tina Kotek
                                                GOVERNOR



                                                ATTEST:
                                                                 2




                                                Tobias Read          Y
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                                   Ht &
