Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-38


     THIRD EXTENSION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 20-03 AND COVID-19
     STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESCINDING EXECUTIVE ORDER 20-16


     Since January 2020, the State of Oregon has been engaged in responding to the
     public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19). As the
     threat escalated, the State’s response elevated to meet the threat. On March 8,
     2020, I declared a state of emergency pursuant to ORS 401.165 et seq., and
     directed certain immediate response actions. Thereafter, the World Health
     Organization declared that the COVID-19 outbreak is a global pandemic, and the
     President of the United States declared the COVID-19 outbreak a national
     emergency.



     During March and April 2020, as the coronavirus continued to spread around the
     world, I took a series of actions aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-19 in
     Oregon, and to mitigate the public health and economic impacts of the pandemic.
     These actions included but were not limited to limitations on gatherings; closing
     schools; taking steps to protect those in congregate living situations; declaring an
     abnormal market disruption; banning on-site consumption of food and drink at food
     establishments statewide; suspending in-person instructional activities at higher
     education institutions; ordering the postponement of non-urgent health care
     procedures in order to conserve personal protective equipment (PPE) and hospital
     beds; and imposing a temporary moratorium on residential and commercial
     evictions. On March 23, 2020, I ordered Oregonians to “Stay Home, Save Lives,”
     directing individuals to stay home to the greatest extent possible, ordering the
     closure of specified retail businesses, requiring physical distancing measures for
     other public and private facilities, and imposing requirements for outdoor areas and
     licensed childcare.


     Those actions helped prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 in Oregon, and
     increased the state’s preparedness to live with this virus until a vaccine or cure can
     be found. Accordingly, in late April and early May 2020, I began to take steps to
     ease the restrictions mentioned above, including allowing for the gradual
     resumption of non-urgent health care procedures, reopening certain outdoor
     recreation opportunities, allowing small gatherings, and easing restrictions around
     childcare and certain retail businesses. I signed executive orders directing the State
     to begin a phased, data-driven, and regionally tailored approach to reopening social,
     economic, and other activities in Oregon.




                                                                                              Contains
                                                                                              Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-38
     PAGE TWO




     Although physical distancing, the “Stay Home, Save Lives” order, and the other
     essential actions mentioned above have helped slow the spread of COVID-19 in
     Oregon, State and local public health officials have advised that the virus is
     continuing to circulate in the community and have expected the number of cases to
     increase as restrictions are lifted. Indeed, as reopening has moved forward in
     recent months, case numbers have continued to climb in Oregon. As we have seen
     in recent months, spikes in cases can occur rapidly, even in counties where case
     numbers had previously been low. During the last few months, rising case numbers
     have required the State to temporarily pause the reopening process for a substantial
     fraction of the state’s population, to issue additional requirements for the use of
     face coverings in many indoor and outdoor spaces, to help slow the spread of the
     virus. Additionally, outbreaks and community spread in certain counties have
     required us to reimpose restrictions at times, to maintain public health and safety.
     Continued work is necessary to bring virus levels down to where it is safe for K-12
     schools across the state to reopen for in-person instruction.


     While Oregon continues to cautiously reopen sectors of its economy, this virus
     remains very dangerous, and the ongoing spread of the novel coronavirus continues
     to seriously threaten the lives and health of Oregonians statewide. As of today,
     there are at least 26,713 cases and 459 deaths in Oregon, with more than 183,000
     deaths from COVID-19 nationwide. Spikes of cases are occurring across the
     country following reopening, and while Oregon is in better position than many
     states, Oregon too is seeing rising case numbers as reopening proceeds. Cases of
     COVID-19 have been detected in all corners of the state, as the virus knows no
     boundaries. Supply chains for testing and PPE remain critical, and Oregon’s
     capacity to test, contact-trace, and isolate new cases needs continued improvement.
     Given that risk for a resurgence of COVID-19 remains if protective measures are
     not maintained here in Oregon, we must maintain preparedness as we continue to
     ease these restrictions over time. Preventing and controlling outbreaks and
     continuing to limit the spread of COVID-19 is the only way to avoid future
     business and social disruption, and to allow Oregon’s economic and social life to
     thrive.


     Put simply, the difficult work of controlling the statewide spread of this virus must
     continue, and must continue to evolve as we learn more and conditions change.
     This emergency is not over, and neither is our emergency response.




                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-38
    PAGE THREE




    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


     Ile   Extension of State of Emergency for an Additional 60 Days

           a.     On March 8, 2020, I issued Executive Order 20-03, declaring a
                  statewide state of emergency pursuant to ORS chapter 401, due to
                  the COVID-19 outbreak in Oregon. That emergency declaration
                  extended for 60 days, through May 7, 2020.


           Bb:    I subsequently extended Executive Order 20-03 and the COVID-19
                  state of emergency twice, both times finding that the virus continued
                  to threaten public health and safety. On May 1, 2020, I issued
                  Executive Order 20-24, extending the state of emergency through
                  July 6, 2020. On June 30, 2020, I issued Executive Order 20-30,
                  extending the state of emergency through September 4, 2020.


           G:     Pursuant to ORS 401.165 and ORS 401.204 and based on the facts
                  described above, I find that COVID-19 continues to threaten public
                  health and safety, and remains a statewide emergency under
                  ORS 401.025. Accordingly, I hereby extend Executive Order 20-03
                  and the COVID-19 state of emergency for an additional 60 days,
                  through November 3, 2020, unless extended or terminated earlier by
                  the Governor.


    2.     Periodic Review of COVID-19 Emergency Orders


           a.     Review Process. As part of the response to the COVID-19 state of
                  emergency, and pursuant to my emergency powers, I have issued a
                  series of emergency orders, designed to address the threat. It is
                  important to continually evaluate the ongoing need for these orders.
                  Accordingly, I have committed to re-evaluating each of the COVID-
                  19 related orders once every 60 days, to decide whether it should be
                  continued, modified, or rescinded.


           b.     Results of Review. As part of my decision to extend the state of
                  emergency for COVID-19,I have reviewed all COVID-19
                  emergency orders which remain in effect. I have decided the
                  following:




                                                                                          Contains
                                                                                          Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-38
     PAGE FOUR




                 (1)   Executive Orders 20-06 and 20-15 (Abnormal Market
                  |    Disruption). I find there remains an ongoing need for these
                       emergency orders, which provide the Attorney General with
                       authority to investigate price gouging and other market
                       disruptions. At this time, these orders shall continue,
                       without modification.


                 (2)   Executive Order 20-16 (Public Meetings and Local
                       Government Operations). Earlier this summer, the Oregon
                       Legislative Assembly enacted House Bill 4212, which
                       codified several provisions from Executive Order 20-16. As
                       a result, I find that Executive Order 20-16 is no longer
                       necessary. I hereby rescind that order, effective
                       immediately.


                 (3)   Executive Order 20-19 (Childcare Facilities). Executive
                       Order 20-19 sets forth directives relating to emergency
                       childcare facilities. I find there remains an ongoing need for
                       this emergency order, and continue it without modification.


                 (4)   Executive Order 20-22 (Resumption of Non-urgent
                       Healthcare Procedures using PPE: Restricting Visitation).
                       Executive Order 20-22 sets forth directives that allow the
                       resumption of non-urgent healthcare procedures using PPE,
                       and that place restrictions on visitation in certain healthcare
                       facilities. I find there remains an ongoing need for this
                       emergency order, and continue it without modification.


                 (5)   Executive Order 20-27 (A Safe and Strong Oregon,
                       Reopening Phase II). Executive Order 20-27 sets forth
                       directives relating to the management of the ongoing
                       COVID-19 emergency and the reopening of Oregon’s
                       economy. I find there remains an ongoing need for this
                       emergency order, and continue it without modification.




                                                                                         Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-38
    PAGE FIVE




                (6)   Executive Order 20-28 (Higher Education), Executive Order
                      20-28 sets forth directives relating to the resumption of in-
                      person instruction and other activities at higher education
                      institutions. I find there remains an ongoing need for this
                      emergency order, and continue it without modification.


                (7)   Executive Order 20-29 (K-12 Education). Executive Order
                      20-29 sets forth directives relating to the provision of K-12
                      education services in Oregon. I find there remains an
                      ongoing need for this emergency order, and continue it
                      without modification.


                (8)   Executive Order 20-37 (Foreclosure Moratorium Extension).
                      Executive Order 20-37 extends House Bill 4204’s mortgage
                      foreclosure moratorium until December 31, 2020, pursuant
                      to the text of that bill and my emergency powers. I find
                      there remains an ongoing need for this order, and continue it
                      without modification.


                      Done at Salem, Oregon, this 1‘ day of September, 2020.




                                       Kt. Leow
                                              —
                                     Kate Brown
                                     GOVERNOR



                                     PATE ST




                                     Bev Clarno
                                     SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Contains
