Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-18

   PROTECTING CARES ACT RECOVERY REBATE PAYMENTS FROM
   GARNISHMENTS, SO THOSE FUNDS CAN BE USED FOR ESSENTIAL
   NEEDS


   On February 28, 2020, I appointed the State of Oregon’s Coronavirus Response
   Team.


   On February 29, 2020, the Department of Human Services issued strict guidelines,
   restricting visitation at congregated care facilities, including nursing homes.

   On March 2, 2020, the State of Oregon Emergency Coordination Center was
   activated.


   On March 8, 2020, I declared an emergency under ORS 401.165 et seq. due to the
   public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19).

   On March 12, 2020, I prohibited gatherings of 250 or more people, and announced
   a statewide closure of Uisgon K-12 schools from March 16, 2020, through March
   31, 2020.


   On March 13, 2020, the President of the United States declared the COVID-19
   outbreak a national emergency.


   On March 17, 2020, I prohibited gatherings of 25 or more people, banned on-site
   consumption of food and drink at food establishments statewide, and extended
   school closures until April 28, 2020. I also encouraged all businesses not subject to
   the prohibitions to implement social distancing protocols.

   On March 18, 2020, I suspended in-person instructional activities at higher
   education institutions through April 28, 2020.

   On March 22, 2020, I imposed a temporary moratorium on residential evictions for
   nonpayment, prohibiting law enforcement from serving, delivering, or acting on
   any notice, order or writ of termination of tenancy, relating to residential evictions
   for nonpayment.


   On March 23, 2020, I ordered Oregonians to “Stay Home, Save Lives,” directing
   individuals to stay home to the greatest extent possible, ordering the closure of
   specified retail businesses, requiring social distancing measures for other public
   and private facilities, and imposing requirements for outdoor areas and licensed
   childcare facilities.




                                                                                            Contains

                                                                                            Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-18
   PAGE TWO



   On April 1, 2020, I imposed a temporary moratorium on the termination of
   residential and nonresidential rental agreements and evictions for nonpayment, to
   ensure that individuals can stay at home to the greatest extent possible, and to
   ensure the provision of necessary goods and services during this emergency.

   On April 8, 2020, I announced that school closures and the suspension of in-person
   instructional activities at higher education institutions would be extended through
   the end of the current academic term and school year.

   COVID-19 may cause respiratory disease leading to serious illness or death. The
   World Health Organization considers COVID-19 to be a global pandemic.
   COVID-19 spreads person-to-person through coughing, sneezing, and close
   personal contact, including touching a surface with the virus on it and then
   touching your mouth, nose, or eyes.

   State and local public health officials advise that the virus is circulating in the
   community and expect the number of cases to increase. The United States Centers
   for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that COVID-19 is most
   contagious when the individual is most symptomatic, but may also spread before
   symptoms appear. CDC recommends measures to limit spread of the disease in the
   community, including limitations on events and gatherings.

   The number of COVID-19 cases continues to rise in Oregon. On March 8, 2020, at
   the time I declared an emergency, there were 14 presumptive or confirmed cases in
   Oregon. As of today, there are at least 1,785 confirmed cases and 70 deaths.

   In a short time, COVID-19 has spread rapidly. To slow the spread of COVID-19 in
   Oregon, and to protect the health and lives of Oregonians, particularly those at
   highest risk, I find that immediate implementation of additional measures is
   necessary to protect the health, safety, and the financial stability of all Oregonians.

   The COVID-19 emergency has resulted in the loss of employment and economic
   suffering for many Oregonians.

   Eligible Oregonians will soon be receiving CARES Act Recovery Rebate
   payments. These payments are needed by vulnerable Oregonians to help pay for
   their housing, food, medical and other essential needs. This Executive Order is
   necessary to ensure that these payments may be used to pay for their current needs.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-18 |
   PAGE THREE



   NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED THAT:

   Pursuant to ORS 433.441, ORS 401.168, ORS 401.175, ORS 401.188, and
   ORS 401.192, I am issuing the following directives, which are intended to protect
   the CARES Act Recovery Rebate payments to individuals from most garnishments.
   This is being done so that Oregonians may use these payments to pay for their
   housing, food, medical and other essential needs during the COVID-19 emergency
   period.


    Ie       Definitions.

             a.     “COVID-19 emergency period” means the period during which the
                    COVID-19 state of emergency declared by Executive Order 20-03 is
                    in effect, including any extensions of that state of emergency.

             b.     “Financial institution” has the same meaning as defined in
                    ORS 18.600(7).


             C,     “CARES Act” refers to the “Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
                    Security Act” (H.R. 748) passed by the United States Congress and
                    signed bv the President of the United States on March 27, 2020.

             d.     “Recovery Rebates” means the payments made to eligible
                    individuals by the United States Government in an amount not to
                    exceed $1,200 per individual (or $2,400 in the case of individuals
                    filing a joint return), plus $500 per qualifying child, pursuant to Sec.
                    2201(a) of the CARES Act.


   pis       Garnishment of CARES Act Recovery Rebates Prohibited. During the
             COVID-19 emergency period:

             a.     All CARES Act Recovery Rebates to individuals shall be exempt
                    from “garnishment” as that term is described in ORS 18.602 and
                    used in ORS Chapter 18, unless otherwise provided by this
                    Executive Order or guidance issued pursuant to this Executive
                    Order.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-18
   PAGE FOUR



        b.       All CARES Act Recovery Rebates exempt from garnishment
                 pursuant to this Executive Order and related guidance shall remain
                 exempt when deposited into an account in a financial institution, in
                 the same manner as other funds described in ORS 18.348(3).

        C.       Upon receipt of a Notice or Writ of Garnishment, financial
                 institutions shall treat all CARES Act Recovery Rebates in the same
                 manner as federal benefit payments for purposes of complying with
                 their obligations under ORS 18.784, unless the garnishment contains
                 the following statement: “This Garnishment Has Been Issued to
                 Collect a Criminal Money Judgment that Awards Restitution or a
                 Civil Judgment Based on a Criminal Offense.” When responding to
                 a garnishment containing this statement, the financial institution
                 shall treat any Recovery Rebate as being subject to garnishment.

   oe   Guidance, The Attorney General and the Oregon Department of Justice
        shall provide further guidance regarding the directives set forth in this
        Executive Order, as necessary.


   4,   Exceptions. Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Executive Order:

        a.       CARES Act Recovery Rebates shall remain subject to any
             -   garnishment issued to collect: (a) a judgment in a criminal action
                 that requires the defendant to pay restitution; or (b) a civil judgment
                 against someone who has been convicted of a criminal offense,         _
                 provided that the civil judgment is based upon the same underlying
                 facts as the conviction.


        b.       Garnishments issued pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of this Executive
                 Order shall contain the following statement: “This Garnishment Has
                 Been Issued to Collect a Criminal Money Judgment that Awards
                 Restitution or a Civil Judgment Based on a Criminal Offense.”

        Ci       In addition to the judgments set forth in paragraph 4(a) of this
                 Executive Order, the Attorney General may specify other judgments
                 that may be collected by garnishment of CARES Act Recovery
                 Rebates, through guidance issued pursuant to paragraph 3 of this
                 Executive Order.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-18
    PAGE FIVE



    This Executive Order is issued under the authority conferred to the Governor by
    ORS 401.165 to 401.236. Pursuant to ORS 401.192(1), the directives set forth in
    this Executive Order shall have the full force and effect of law, and any existing
    laws, ordinances, rules and orders shall be inoperative to the extent they are
    inconsistent with this exercise of the Governor’s emergency powers.

    This Executive Order is effective immediately, and remains in effect until
    terminated by the Governor.

    Done at Salem, Oregon, this 17" day of April, 2020.



                                           Ket. Leow
                                                   —
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR



                                         ATTEST:




                                             eGo
                                         Bev Clarno
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE
