Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-32


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    MORROW AND WHEELER COUNTIES DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW
    WATER SUPPLIES AND HOT, DRY CONDITIONS


    At the request of Morrow County (by Resolution 2020-20 dated July 1, 2020) and
     Wheeler County (by Resolution 2020-23, dated July1, 2020), and based on the
    recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply
    Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the continuing dry
    conditions and lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic disaster
    conditions in these two counties.


    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, forest, recreation, tourism,
    drinking water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish and
    wildlife and other natural resources which are dependent on adequate precipitation
    and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions have already affected local
    growers, and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability, shortened
    growing season, and decreased water supplies.


     Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
     Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
    declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Morrow and Wheeler
    counties.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        IF      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Morrow and Wheeler
                counties.




                                                                                             Contains
                                                                                             Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-32
     PAGE TWO


       IL.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Morrow and Wheeler counties as the Department and
              Commission determine is necessary and appropriate in accordance with
              ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


       II.    The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
              information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
              understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
              wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
              to 536.780.


       INE,   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
              assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
              current and projected conditions in Morrow and Wheeler counties.


              All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Morrow and Wheeler
              counties.


       NAL    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 21 day of July 2020.



                                          Ket {ror—
                                        Kate Brown
                                        GOVERNOR


                                        ATTEST:




                                        67  h
                                         08 arn
                                        Bev Clarno
                                        SECRETARY OF SIATE




                                                                                        Contains
                                                                                        Recycled
