Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-31


   EXTENDING EMERGENCY REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY FOR
   CHILDCARE LICENSING; AMENDING EXECUTIVE ORDER 21-15.

   Oregon is currently in the midst of a surge of the Delta variant of COVID-19. This
   has placed an extreme strain on our healthcare system. These challenging
   circumstances highlight the critical importance of our childcare infrastructure to
   support working parents, including parents who are healthcare providers, and our
   youngest Oregonians. As we continue to navigate the challenges of this pandemic, it
   is vital that our childcare providers are able to remain nimble to respond to urgent
   and shifting needs to support families. In light of the current delays in processing
   multistate background checks and the process for child care licensure, I find that
   there is a need to continue my emergency authorization of regulatory flexibility in
   the childcare sector so it can continue to support Oregon’s economy and its families.

   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

   Pursuant to my authorities under ORS Chapter 401, I am amending paragraph 6(b) of
   Executive Order 21-15, pertaining to providing additional regulatory flexibility for
   childcare providers, to modify the authority in sub-paragraphs 6(b)(1) and 6(b)(ii),
   and to extend the expiration date of the authorizations in those sub-paragraphs
   through December 31, 2021.


   Effective September 1, 2021, at 11:59pm, Paragraph 6(b) of Executive Order 21-15
   is amended to read as follows:


          b. Ordering Additional Flexibility through December 31, 2021. For
             purposes of ensuring continuity of care and facilitating a flexible and
              orderly transition away from the structures created by Executive Order
              20-19, and pursuant to my authorities under ORS Chapters 401 and 433
              and this Executive Order, I order the following, through December 31,
              2022


              i.   An entity or individual can be approved to operate a temporary
                   unlicensed emergency childcare facility as authorized by order of the
                   Early Learning Division if the entity or individual meets and complies
                   with all requirements for emergency childcare as provided by the
                   Early Learning Division, including any conditions imposed on the
                   emergency childcare approval. The Early Learning Division may
                   issue guidance to implement this directive.




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
                                                                                            Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

   EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-31
   PAGE TWO




             ii.   A childcare worker may satisfy the requirement to be enrolled in the
                   Central Background Registry through an Emergency Background
                   Check as authorized by order of the Early Learning Division and in
                   accordance to guidance issued by the Early Learning Division. The
                   Early Learning Division may issue guidance to implement this
                   directive.


   Done at Salem, Oregon, this 1“ day of September, 2021.



                                            y      “4
                                                   /      Syeae
                                           i
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR


                                         OES




                                         Shemia Fagan
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE
