Ottice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-06


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    GILLIAM, HARNEY, AND JACKSON COUNTIES.


    At the request of Gilliam County (by Resolution No. R2022-03, dated March 16,
    2022, adopted by the Gilliam County Court), Harney County (by Resolution No.
    2022-03, dated March 16, 2022, adopted by the Harney County Court), and
    Jackson County (by Order No. 47-22, dated March 23, 2022, ordered by the
    Jackson County Board of Commissioners) and based on the recommendations of
    the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply Availability Committee, and
    pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the low snowpack, low reservoir levels, and low
    streamflow have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in
    Gilliam, Harney, and Jackson Counties.


    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, vineyard, recreation, and natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on
    drinking water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for public instream
    uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate precipitation, stored water,
    and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to affect local
    growers, increase the potential for fire, shorten the growing season, and decrease
    water supplies.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Gilliam, Harney, and Jackson Counties.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       I.   .   The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Gilliam, Harney, and
                Jackson Counties.




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-06
    PAGE TWO



      I.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
            Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
            users in Gilliam, Harney, and Jackson Counties as the Department and
            Commission determine necessary and appropriate in accordance with
            ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


      UL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.


      IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Gilliam, Harney, and Jackson
            Counties.


            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Gilliam, Harney, and
            Jackson Counties.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2022.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 7" day of April, 2022.



                                                Ke Law
                                                  f      fi
                                                 Te OR             ies



                                              Kate Brown
                                              GOVERNOR




                                              ATTEST:      Sy aS


                                              Shemia Fagan
                                              SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Contains
                                                                                      Recycled
