Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-25


    ACCELERATING WIND AND SOLAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT IN
    ADVANCE OF ELIMINATION OF                FEDERAL CLEAN ENERGY TAX
    CREDITS


    WHEREAS, the State of Oregon recognizes the critical role of clean energy
    development in advancing community resilience and reducing greenhouse gas
    emissions while promoting a diverse and inclusive economy; and

    WHEREAS, demand for clean electricity is rising rapidly across the region, and
    development of solar and wind energy facilities in Oregon aligns with the state’s
    goals and values by producing clean and affordable electricity, supporting jobs and
    economic growth, generating property tax revenue for local communities, and
    advancing progress towards Oregon’s clean energy and climate goals; and

    WHEREAS, federal clean energy production and investment tax credits reduce the
    development costs of solar and wind energy projects; and

    WHEREAS, the Trump Administration is taking multiple actions to impede
    development of renewable solar and wind energy resources, driving up electricity
    costs and constraining economic development; and

    WHEREAS, the federal budget reconciliation bill adopted by Congress eliminated
    the clean electricity production and investment tax credits for solar and wind
    projects that begin construction after July 4, 2026 and are placed into service after
     December 31, 2027; and


    WHEREAS, if wind or solar energy projects cannot meet the tax credit deadlines,
    it will mean lost property tax revenues for Oregon communities and lost
    construction jobs in 2026 and 2027 and could lead to increases in electricity rates
    and setbacks to Oregon’s climate goals; and

    WHEREAS, immediate action is needed to help shovel-ready renewable solar and
    wind energy projects utilize soon-to-be-terminated federal clean energy production
    and incentive tax credits; and

    WHEREAS, temporary changes must be made to Oregon’s energy siting and
    permitting processes to position shovel-ready solar and wind projects to begin
    construction by July 4, 2026 and demonstrate compliance with federal requirements
    for clean energy tax credits.




                                                                                            Recycled
    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon


         EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-25
         PAGE TWO



         NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


         1.   Directives for Expediting Executive Branch Agency Siting and Permitting
              Processes.
                 e   Executive branch agencies identified by this Order are directed to take
                     any and all steps necessary and authorized by existing statutes to
                     accelerate and prioritize siting and permitting reviews, approvals, and
                     processes necessary to expedite the permitting and development of solar
                     and wind energy projects in Oregon that seek to qualify for federal clean
                     energy tax credits that require construction to commence by July 4,
                     2026 and impose a four-year deadline for projects to be placed into
                     service.
                 e   Agencies or their respective boards or commissions shall exercise
                     discretionary authority up to and including adoption of temporary
                     emergency rules to carry out the directives described in this Order.
                 e   These directives apply to the following state agencies and boards and
                     commissions:
                           e    Department of Land Conservation and Development and the
                                Land Conservation and Development Commission;
                           e    Department of Energy and the Energy Facility Siting Council;
                                Department of Environmental Quality and the Environmental
                                Quality Commission;
                           e    Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Fish and Wildlife
                                Commission;
                           e    Department of Forestry and the Board of Forestry;
.                          e    Department of State Lands and the Land Board;
                           e    Department of Transportation and the Oregon Transportation
                                Commission;
                           e    Public Utility Commission; and
                           e    State Historic Preservation Office.

         2. Specific Directives to the Oregon Department of Energy and the Energy
              Facility Siting Council.
                 e   Consult with solar and wind projects seeking state siting approvals that
                     demonstrate the need to begin construction by July 4, 2026, to be
                     eligible for federal tax credits. For those projects, identify process
                     changes within existing statutory authority that, if implemented, would
                     be of greatest assistance to meeting the deadline for federal tax credits
                     and determine the feasibility of making those changes consistent with
                     this Order.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-25
     PAGE THREE


                  Where applicable, forego consultation with or review by federal
                  agencies unless required by Oregon state statute.
                  Prioritize siting approval processes for projects that must
                  commence construction by the federal deadline on July 4, 2026,
                  and accelerate permit reviews and processes, including but not
                  limited to contracting third party expertise to process
                  applications at additional cost to the applicant. The highest
                  priority should be given to projects that have secured power
                  purchase agreements to serve electricity customers in Oregon,
                  have secured interconnection agreements, and can demonstrate
                  the project will provide benefits to Oregon ratepayers.
                  As necessary, schedule additional Council meetings to expedite
                  application reviews and site certificate approvals.
                  The Director of the Oregon Department of Energy and the
                  Energy Siting Council shall exercise the enforcement discretion
                  granted under ORS 469.992 to waive civil penalties for any solar
                  or wind energy project that meets the following criteria:
                      e The applicant has submitted a complete application for a
                         site certificate and begins construction prior to July 5,
                         2026, for the purpose of meeting the Physical Work Test
                         described in IRS Notice 2025-42 to qualify for the
                         federal clean energy investment or production tax credit;
                      e The applicant demonstrates financial assurance as
                         required by OAR 345-022-0050 by supplying a letter of
                         credit prior to commencing construction on the facility,
                         in a form approved by Council in December 2024,
                         naming the State of Oregon, acting by and through the
                         Council, as the beneficiary or payee. The letter of credit
                         must be issued by a financial institution that is included
                         on the Council’s pre-approved financial institution list
                         upon submission of a site certificate application, and in
                         an amount totaling no less than $150,000 per megawatt
                         of aggregate generating and storage capacity specified in
                          the site certificate application;
                      e   Violation of existing statutory or rule provisions must be
                          limited to the minimum disturbance necessary to satisfy
                          the Physical Work Test prior to July 4, 2026; and
                      e   In meeting the Physical Work Test, the applicant must
                          avoid all natural, historical, archeological, and cultural
                          resources identified in the application or by agencies
                          reviewing the preliminary application.




                                                                                       Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-25
     PAGE FOUR




                     Civil penalties may be waived for up to four years.


                     Nothing in this Order exempts a solar or wind facility from
                     complying with the energy facility siting standards established under
                     Chapter 345 of the Oregon Administrative Rules. This Order does
                     not limit or affect the Department’s or the Council’s discretion to
                     issue civil penalties for violations unrelated to the scope and intent
                     of this Order.


    3.   Specific Directives to the Public Utility Commission.
             e   To the extent practicable, accelerate Request for Proposal timelines and
                 support expedited public utility procurement of clean energy resources.
             e   Commission Staff shall propose for the Commission’s adoption
                 provisions of House Bill 2065 (2025) that if applied will allow use of
                 interconnection studies conducted by third parties to solar or wind
                 projects subject to this Order.


    4. This Order is effective as of 8:00 a.m. on October 6" 2025 and shall remain in
         effect until July 4, 2030.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 6'" day of October, 2025.




                                            Tina Kotek
                                            GOVERNOR




                                            "hie
                                            Tobias Read
                                             SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                              HS
