Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-04


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    CROOK, JEFFERSON AND MORROW COUNTIES.

    At the request of Crook County (by Resolution No. 2022-10, dated March 3, 2022),
    Jefferson County (by Resolution No. R-002-22, dated March 2, 2022), and Morrow
    County (by Resolution No. R-2022-4, dated March 2, 2022) and based on the
    recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply
    Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the low snowpack,
    low reservoir levels, and low streamflow have caused or will cause natural and
    economic disaster conditions in Crook, Jefferson and Morrow Counties.

    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, recreation, and natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on drinking
    water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for public instream uses and
    other natural resources dependent on adequate precipitation, stored water, and
    streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to affect local growers,
    increase the potential for fire, shorten the growing season, and decrease water
    supplies.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. L, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Crook, Jefferson and Morrow Counties.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       iE       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Crook, Jefferson and
                Morrow Counties.


       I.       The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Re
                                                                                           Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 22-04
    PAGE TWO



             users in Crook, Jefferson and Morrow Counties as the Department and
             Commission determine necessary and appropriate in accordance with
             ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


      UHI.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
             information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
             understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
             wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
             to 536.780.


      IV.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
             assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
             current and projected conditions in Crook, Jefferson and Morrow
             Counties.


             All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
             agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
             affected political subdivisions and water users in Crook, Jefferson and
             Morrow Counties.


      VI.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2022.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 21“ day of March, 2022.


                                                 )/      Wi


                                               Kate Brown
                                               GOVERNOR




                                               ATTEST:



                                                 Sate
                                               Shemia Fagan
                                               SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                       Contains
                                                                                       Materials
