Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-33


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LAKE
    COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW WATER SUPPLIES AND HOT,
    DRY CONDITIONS


    At the request of Lake County (by Resolution 2020-04C dated July 14, 2020) and
    based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water
    Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the
    continuing dry conditions, low snowpack, and lack of precipitation have caused
    natural and economic disaster conditions in Lake County.


    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, forest, recreation, drinking
    water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish and wildlife and
    other natural resources which are dependent on adequate precipitation and
    streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions have already affected local growers,
    and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability, shortened growing
    season, and decreased water supplies.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
    declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Lake County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       I       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Lake County.


       UE      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Lake County as the Department and Commission determine is
               necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-33
    PAGE TWO



      UGt,   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
             information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
             understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
             wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
             to 536.780.


      IV;    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
             assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
             current and projected conditions in Lake County.


             All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
             agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
             affected political subdivisions and water users in Lake County.

      VI.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 5" day of August, 2020.


                                          |

                                         Ket how—
                                       Kate Brown
                                       GOVERNOR


                                       ATTEST:



                                              (CUT
                                       Bev Clarno
                                       SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                       Contains
                                                                                       Recycled
