Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-09

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN LAKE
    COUNTY DUE TO LACK OF PRECIPITATION AND UNUSUALLY LOW
    SNOW PACK AND STREAMFLOW.

    At the request of Lake County (by Resolution 2021-02C, dated April 7, 2021) and
    based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water
    Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the lack of
    precipitation, low snow pack, and low streamflow have caused or will cause natural
    and economic disaster conditions in this county.

    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, ranch, recreation, drinking
    water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish and wildlife and
    other natural resources which are dependent on adequate precipitation, stored
    water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to affect
    local growers, and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability,
    shortened growing season, and decreased water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal and
    the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
    declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to continue
    to exist in Lake County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Lake County.

       ne      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Lake County as the Department and Commission determine is
               necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

       Il.     The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
               information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
               understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
               wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
               to 536.780.




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-09
    PAGE TWO



      Wve   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Lake County.

            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Lake County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 26" day of April, 2021.




                                        ka bor
                                      Kate Brown
                                      GOVERNOR



                                      ATTEST: < Z hy


                                      Shemia Fagan
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Contains
                                                                                      Recycled
