Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-05


    DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN OREGON DUE TO A
    SEVERE WINTER STORM THAT INCLUDED HIGH WINDS,
    FLOODING, AVALANCHES, AND LANDSLIDES


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that a threat to life, safety and property exists due
    to a severe winter storm that has caused a natural disaster across the State of
    Oregon.


    Beginning Jan. 12, 2024, and continuing, this severe storm has brought cold
    temperatures, snow, freezing rain, high winds, flooding, landslides, avalanches and
    erosion at various locations throughout the state, resulting in power and
    communications outages and transportation disruptions. State, local, and tribal
    agencies continue to respond to requests for mass care and medical services and
    communications, evacuation and transportation assistance. Early damage
    assessment reports from jurisdictions include significant debris from damaged trees
    and infrastructure damage, and state agencies are reporting damage to state
    facilities. Multiple fatalities are suspected to be associated with the storm.


    State agencies are coordinating with private sector and federal partners to address
    resource needs that cannot be met by state, local or tribal partners. Interstate mutual
    aid through the Emergency Management Assistance Compact is needed to bring in
    certified personnel to process data to find at-risk populations vulnerable during
    power outages. Federal waivers from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
    Administration are needed to facilitate interstate travel and response for mutual aid
    assets for power restoration. These resources require a state declaration of
    emergency before they can be activated.


    Power outages continue across the state with Benton, Clackamas, Clatsop, Hood
    River, Lane!, Lincoln, Linn, Multnomah, Tillamook and Washington counties
    experiencing the brunt of the interruptions. Widespread damage and outages to
    commercial cellular, wireline, VoIP, broadband, and other telecommunications
    services has caused significant impacts to the public’s ability to communicate and
    access the internet, including engaging with online government, telehealth,
    financial, e-commerce and other critical services. A loss of services for 911 and
    first responder communications networks in multiple areas has increased the threat
    to life-safety.


    1 Executive Order No. 24-04 was issued for Lane County on January 15, 2024 due to severe weather
    conditions and is specifically incorporated herein.




                                                                                                       ER?
                                                                                                       HE
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-05
    PAGE TWO


    The combination of power outages and transportation disruptions throughout the
    state has caused disruptions in drinking water and wastewater systems and
    numerous school closures. An inability to refuel emergency generators at critical
    communications sites has occurred due to debris, downed power lines and severe
    winter travel conditions. Hospital and emergency medical services are also
    experiencing limitations in the ability to provide services, while storm-related visits
    to emergency departments and urgent care centers for injuries, falls, and carbon
    monoxide poisoning have increased substantially.


    Jurisdictions on the central and northern coasts and in the Willamette Valley,
    Cascades, and central and eastern Oregon have suffered the heaviest impacts of the
    storm. More than 70 missions for state assistance have been coordinated through
    the State Emergency Coordination Center. 21 linfo has registered more than 160
    warming shelters and weather respite centers statewide and received more than
    3,200 calls across 25 counties for weather respite and transportation needs.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


           1.   The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (ODEM) shall
                coordinate access to and use of personnel and equipment of all state
                agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate or recover
                from conditions caused by this emergency. ODEM shall coordinate
                all essential protective measures in support of identified disaster
                areas to protect lives, property and the environment. All Oregonians
                are to heed the direction of emergency officials with regard to this
                emergency in order to protect their safety.


           2.   The Oregon Department of Administrative Services, Oregon Department
                of Human Services, Oregon Department of Transportation, Oregon
                Health Authority, Oregon Public Utility Commission, Oregon State
                Police, and other state agencies are directed to provide any assistance as
                requested by ODEM that is deemed necessary to assist in the response to
                this emergency and to provide all necessary support to statewide
                response, recovery and mitigation efforts.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-05
    PAGE THREE


        3.   This determination of a severe winter weather emergency is statewide. It
             is not to be construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of
             emergency for other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources
             and personnel required by the emergency, to request assistance through
             the Emergency Management Assistance Compact, if needed, and to
             allow state agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the
             agency if strict compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would
             in any way prevent, hinder or delay mitigating the effects of the severe
             winter weather emergency. Any local government requests for state
             resources must be submitted through county governing bodies to the
             ODEM pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.


             This state of emergency shall exist until 11:59 p.m., January 26,
             2024, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 19th day of January, 2024.




                                                Of [CAE
                                                 Tina Kotek
                                                 GOVERNOR



                                                 ATTEST:



                                           Sedans Grif, Vibade
                                                 LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                          Ht
