Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-02


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO RISK OF
    ECOMOMIC SHUT DOWN


    WHEREAS, The Port of Morrow (“The Port”) is currently discharging wastewater
    for reuse on irrigated agricultural lands pursuant to terms of a Wastewater Pollution
    Discharge Permit No.102325 issued by the Oregon Department of Environmental
    Quality (“DEQ”) on December 21, 2017, and subsequent modifications (hereafter
    “DEQ Permit’); and


    WHEREAS, Terms and conditions of the DEQ Permit set forth multiple
    parameters governing reuse of wastewater which the Port receives from food
    processing, power, data center, and agricultural facilities employing over 6,000
    people at various locations in Umatilla and Morrow counties; and

    WHEREAS, Having been found in violation of the DEQ Permit terms, the Port
    and DEQ entered into a Mutual Agreement and Final Order with a Stipulated
    Penalty Framework on October 31, 2023 (hereafter “Enforcement Order”). The
    Enforcement Order allows continued reuse of the wastewater for irrigating
    agricultural lands according to a Non-Growing Season Irrigation Plan set forth in
    the DEQ Permit as part of specific terms and conditions intended to protect ground
    water relied upon as a source of domestic drinking water from further
    contamination, while also recognizing that construction of additional lagoon
    storage capacity and treatment of wastewater received by the Port would require
    investment of over $400 million and take approximately 6 years to complete; and

    WHEREAS, Natural precipitation in the Lower Umatilla Basin in November and
    December of 2024 was approximately 95% above the 20-year average for those
    months and is predicted to continue at levels up to 40% above average in the first
    two months of2025. This is causing levels of soil saturation from natural causes
    that cannot be controlled, and will likely result in current lagoon storage capacity of
    the Port falling short of what is necessary to avoid land application of wastewater
    for a short interval of time during the “non-growing season” designated in the DEQ
    Permit which contains specific limitations that end at the start of the irrigation
    season on March 1, 2025; and


    WHEREAS, The compounding effects of greater than normal precipitation
    resulting in lack of lagoon storage capacity necessary to avoid land application of
    wastewater during the “non-growing season” prohibited by the DEQ Permit poses
    imminent risk that the Port will have to stop receiving wastewater from industrial
    food processing and agricultural facilities in February 2025 or sooner. This action
    by the Port will necessarily cause those facilities to cease operations, which will in
    turn trigger furloughs of potentially thousands of workers resulting in substantial
    economic harm to the region and the State of Oregon; and



                                                                                              He
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-02
    PAGE TWO


    WHEREAS, Oregon’s Department of Environmental Quality and Department of
    Agriculture, the Port of Morrow, and industrial food processing and agricultural
    entities in the Lower Umatilla Basin have all made good faith and substantial
    efforts to avoid and/or ameliorate land application of reuse wastewater from
    November 1, 2024 to March 1, 2025.


    Pursuant to my authority as Governor of the State of Oregon, specifically ORS
    401.165 et seq., I find that:


    To avoid a shutdown of food processing and agricultural industries in Morrow and
    Umatilla counties and the resulting economic consequences while still ensuring the
    protection of groundwater and groundwater users, the restrictions specifically set
    forth in Schedule A, Conditions (6), (8), (11) and (13) of the DEQ Permit, as
    applied to Farm 1 and Farm 3, and exclusively to fields that are ranked as “Low
    Risk” by the Enforcement Order on Farm 4 and Farm 5, are waived for the duration
    of this Executive Order. In doing so, the Port will adhere to the following
    conditions:


    IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        1.   Wastewater that cannot be stored because wastewater storage capacity
             controlled by the Port has been exhausted, or is predicted to be exhausted
             within seven days, and that cannot be applied consistent with Schedules
             A(6), A(8), A(11), and A(13) of the DEQ Permit, may be applied during the
             non-growing season not withstanding these provisions and Schedule A(6) of
             the DEQ Permit.
       2.    Land application (if any) must be consistent with the following:
                a. The application site is eligible to receive non-growing season
                    irrigation under Schedule A(13)(A)(i) and (ii) of the DEQ Permit;
                       and
                  b.   The application site:
                             i.   Must have no downgradient domestic user of alluvial
                                  groundwater, as determined by the DEQ-approved field
                                  risk ranking set forth in the existing DEQ Enforcement
                                  Order, or be ranked as “Low Risk” for nitrate leaching,
                                  as determined by the DEQ-approved field risk ranking in
                                  the DEQ Enforcement Order and the DEQ approved
                                  Non-Growing Season Irrigation Plan referenced in that
                                  Order; and




                                                                                            HE
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-02
    PAGE THREE


                         ii.   Land application on Farm | and Farm 3 will be
                               prioritized as the primary locations for land application
                               of wastewater, with application on Farm 4 and Farm 5
                               undertaken only as necessary with notice and
                               concurrence of DEQ; and
                        iii.   The application of wastewater is managed to minimize
                               runoff and channeling; and
                        iv.    The Port notifies DEQ in writing within 24 hours after
                               determining land application of wastewater in the non-
                               growing season will be necessary to initiate within seven
                               (7) days pursuant to the terms and conditions listed
                               above.


       3.   All terms and conditions of the DEQ Permit and Enforcement Order not
            specifically referenced here and waived remain in full force and effect.


    This emergency is effective as of 8:00 a.m. on January 15, 2025, and shall exist
    until 11:59 p.m. on February 28, 2025, unless extended or terminated sooner by the
    Governor.


    Done at Salem, Oregon, this 13" day of January, 2025.




                                                     O/ aa [Ce
                                                  Tina Kotek
                                                  GOVERNOR



                                                  ATTEST:




                                                   obias Read
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                           Ht
