Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-26


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN COOS
     COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW STREAMFLOW AND HOT, DRY
     CONDITIONS


     Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low streamflow and hot, dry
     conditions are likely to cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Coos
     County, resulting in a severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during
     2020.


     Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
     likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, forest, recreation, drinking
     water, and natural resources sectors, which are dependent on adequate precipitation
     and streamflow in Coos County. Extreme conditions have already affected local
     growers, and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability, shortened
     growing season, and decreased water supplies.


     Conditions continue to be monitored by the state’s natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
     Office of Emergency Management.


     Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
     property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
     declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Coos County.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        I       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Coos County.


        UE      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Coos County as the Department and Commission determine is
                necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                              Contains
                                                                                              Recycled
                                                                                              M.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


      EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-26
      PAGE TWO




      IIL.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
             assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
             current and projected conditions in Coos County.


      II     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
             agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
             affected political subdivisions and water users in Coos County.


             This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 14" day of May, 2020.



                                          Kite Leow—
                                       Kate Brown
                                       GOVERNOR




                                       ATTEST:




                                            Gh.
                                             Ce ann
                                       Bev Clarno
                                        SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                       Contains
                                                                                       Recycled
