Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-08


     DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
     JEFFERSON COUNTY.


     At the request of Jefferson County (by Commission Resolution and Order 0003-24,
     dated April 3, 2024), and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness
     Council and input from the Water Supply Availability Committee dated June 14,
     2024, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that multi-year drought conditions as
     well as below normal precipitation, streamflow and groundwater conditions have
     caused or will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Jefferson County.


     Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
     improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
     ranch, vineyard, recreation, tourism and natural resources sectors, as well as an
     impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife, and important minimum flows for
     public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate
     precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are
     expected to affect local growers and livestock, increase the potential for fire,
     shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.


     Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
     safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
     Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
     and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


     Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
     property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
     counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
     and is likely to continue to exist in Jefferson County.


     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


        IN;     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Jefferson County.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-08
     PAGE TWO




       Il.    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
              Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
              users in Jefferson County as the Department and Commission determine
              necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


       III.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
              information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
              understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
              wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
              to 536.780.


              The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
              assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
              current and projected conditions in Jefferson County.


              All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
              agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
              affected political subdivisions and water users in Jefferson County.


       Vi.    This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2024.


              Done at Salem, Oregon, this 25"" day of June, 2024.




                                                  C/o
                                                Tina Kotek
                                                GOVERNOR


                                                ATTEST:




                                                LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                      Hige
