Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-13

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    CROOK, HARNEY, MALHEUR, SHERMAN, AND WALLOWA
    COUNTIES DUE TO LACK OF PRECIPITATION AND UNUSUALLY
    LOW SNOWPACK AND STREAMFLOW.

    At the request of Crook County (by Resolution and Order 2021-24 dated May 5,
    2021), Harney County (by Resolution 2021-06 dated May 5, 2021), Malheur
    County (by Resolution R21-20 dated May 19, 2021), Sherman County (by
    Resolution C.3-65-202- dated May 19, 2021) and Wallowa County (by Resolution
    2021-18 dated May 21, 2021), and based on the recommendations of the Drought
    Readiness Council and the Water Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to
    ORS 536.740, I find the lack of precipitation, low snowpack, low reservoir levels,
    and low streamflow have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster
    conditions in these five counties.

    Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to
    improve. Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm,
    ranch, vineyard, recreation, and natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on
    drinking water, fish and wildlife, and other natural resources dependent on
    adequate precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme
    conditions are expected to affect local growers, increase the potential for fire,
    shorten the growing season, and decrease water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal,
    and the Oregon Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these
    counties. I, therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists
    and is likely to continue to exist in Crook, Harney, Malheur, Sherman, and
    Wallowa Counties.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       le      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and assist in agricultural recovery in Crook, Harney,
               Malheur, Sherman, and Wallowa Counties.

       lf,     The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Crook, Harney, Malheur, Sherman, and Wallowa Counties as
               the Department and Commission determine necessary and appropriate
               in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-13
    PAGE TWO




      UL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
            information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
            understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon’s fish and
            wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
            to 536.780.

      We    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
            assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
            current and projected conditions in Crook, Harney, Malheur, Sherman,
            and Wallowa Counties.

            All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Crook, Harney,
            Malheur, Sherman, and Wallowa Counties.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 8'" day of June, 2021.


                                                  Y

                                        Kah.          Kou
                                      Kate Brown
                                      GOVERNOR



                                      ATIEST:




                                      Shemia Fagan
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                    Contains
                                                                                    Recycled
