Office of the Governor
State of Oregon




  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-35


  DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN CURRY
  COUNTY DUE TO LACK OF PRECIPITATION AND ABOVE AVERAGE
  TEMPERATURES AND LOW STREAMFLOWS.


  At the request of Curry County (Resolution No. R2021-27, dated September 15, 2021),
  and based on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water
  Supply Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the lack of
  precipitation, trend of above-average temperatures, and low streamflow have caused or
  will cause natural and economic disaster conditions in Curry County.

  Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to improve.
  Drought is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm, ranch, recreation,
  and natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife,
  important minimum flows for public instream uses and other natural resources dependent
  on adequate precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme
  conditions are expected to affect local growers, increase the potential for fire, shorten the
  growing season, and decrease water supplies, among other challenges.

  Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public safety
  agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon Office of
  Emergency Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal, and the Oregon
  Department of Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.

  Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
  property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of this county. I,
  therefore, declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to
  continue to exist in Curry County.


  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

      IE     The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
             assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and
             assist in agricultural recovery in Curry County.




                                                                                                  Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon




  EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-35
  PAGE TWO



    UE    The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
          Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users
          in Curry County as the Department and Commission determine necessary and
          appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

    IL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek information from
          the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help understand the impacts of
          water availability on Oregon’s fish and wildlife, as necessary and appropriate
          in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

    IBY   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist as
          needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and
          projected conditions in Curry County.

          All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
          provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected political
          subdivisions and water users in Curry County.

    Wb,   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

          Done at Salem, Oregon, this 17" day of November, 2021.


                                               ee


                                            Kate Brown
                                            GOVERNOR


                                            ATTEST: Gate

                                            Shemia Fagan
                                            SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
