Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26


     DIRECTING STATE AGENCIES TO TAKE URGENT ACTION TO
     PROMOTE THE RESILIENCE OF OUR COMMUNITIES AND NATURAL
     AND WORKING LANDS AND WATERS                                                                |




     WHEREAS, the lands and waters that comprise the State of Oregon have
     supported people since time immemorial, contributing to clean air and water, food,
     fiber and shelter, rich biodiversity and ecosystems, recreation, livelihoods, and
     enhanced quality of life; and


     WHEREAS, Oregon is at an inflection point as changing climate and ocean
     conditions are impacting Oregon’s landscapes, waters, communities, and local
     economies with increased temperatures, warming surface waters, changing
     precipitation patterns, reduced snowpack, hotter and drier summers, sea-level rise,
     diminishing water supplies, habitat constraints to iconic species, and more frequent
     and damaging wildfires and extreme weather events; and


     WHEREAS, Oregon’s natural and working lands and waters — including forests,
     grasslands, rangelands, farmlands, wetlands, rivers, lakes and coastal and marine
     waters, and the parks and open spaces in urban environments — provide a range of
     environmental, social, health, and economic benefits statewide, including
     opportunities to increase carbon sequestration to help address climate change; and

     WHEREAS, Oregon can realize the promise and power of our natural and working
     lands and waters through proactive policies and actions that facilitate the
     management of natural landscapes and waterways in a way that enhances their
     ability to withstand and recover from climate change impacts; and


     WHEREAS, the effects of our changing climate are resulting in direct health
     impacts from heat and wildfire smoke; damage to and often destruction of homes,
     businesses, and working landscapes; and economic losses across multiple sectors of
     the State’s natural resource economy; and


     WHEREAS, communities have the knowledge, ability, and desire to participate in
     climate solutions and increase local disaster resilience through collaborative
     planning and action in partnership with state agencies; and


     WHEREAS, the Oregon State Legislature established a definition of climate
     resilience in House Bill 3409 (2023) as "the capability to anticipate, prepare for,
     respond to and recover from significant climate-related threats while minimizing
     damage to social wellbeing, the economy and ecosystem functions”; and




                                                                                            HB
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE TWO                                                                               |

                                                                                            |

     WHEREAS, meeting Oregon’s resilience goals at scale requires bringing everyone
     together —Tribes, landowners, communities, business, and government — in
     partnership to support our lands, waters, and communities; and


     WHEREAS, meeting Oregon’s resilience goals requires a coordinated, outcome-
     focused effort to implement actions that will meaningfully mitigate and adapt the
     State’s lands and waters to the increasing pace and scale of impacts from the
     changing climate, so they continue to contribute to the social, environmental, and
     economic well-being of Oregonians.


     NOW IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED THAT AGENCIES
     SHALL FURTHER THE ACTIONS               IDENTIFIED BELOW.


     I.   FOSTER RESILIENT LANDS, WATERS AND COMMUNITIES


          1.    Define Key Resilience Attributes for Land and Waters. Agencies
                shall use existing plans and strategies and the best available science to
                define key resilience attributes appropriate for Oregon with the goal of
                identifying characteristics of lands and water that are: (1) currently
                resilient to impacts from climate change and therefore able to deliver
                multiple benefits that are likely to persist under future climate
                conditions; or, (2) capable of achieving multiple benefits of high
                resilience in the face of changing conditions if supported by focused
                actions that promote restoration, enhancement or reconnection of those
                lands and/or waters.


                a.   The Executive Director of the Oregon Watershed Enhancement
                     Board (‘OWEB”) will partner with the Director of Oregon
                     Department of Fish and Wildlife ““ODFW”) (collectively “Lead
                     Agencies’’) to lead a natural resource interagency team to undertake
                     the work associated with development of resilience attributes
                     anticipated by Section 1, including determining baseline conditions
                     against which progress will be measured. The Lead Agencies shall
                     collaborate closely with the Director of the Oregon Department of
                     Energy (ODOE), who oversees the Natural and Working Lands
                     Program, to ensure consistency across efforts.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE THREE




        2.   Keep Oregon’s Working Lands and Waters Working.


             a.    Executive branch agencies identified in Section IJ of this Order
                   (“Agencies”) are directed to utilize the resilience attributes along
                   with other relevant information to identify and improve programs,
                   processes, and practices that protect and promote stewardship of
                   working lands and waters to adapt to impacts from a changing
                   climate. These include but are not limited to the following:


                    i.   Existing programs, tools and incentives that support the
                         stewardship of working lands and waters in order to provide
                         more diverse agricultural, forest and ocean-reliant products
                         while also supporting co-benefits such as clean water, healthy
                         soils and improved resilience to changing climate conditions.


                   ii.   Partnerships to increase the pace and scale of adoption of
                         sustainable stewardship and climate resilient practices by
                         landowners including federal, local and tribal governments,
                         businesses, non-profit organizations and private citizens.


                  iii.   Application and review processes for grantmaking, loan, and
                         financing programs to improve partner engagement on resilience
                         projects including exploration of opportunities to leverage and
                         expand access to capital and administrative capacity through
                         partnership with third party service providers.


                  iv.    Permitting processes for restoration projects on working lands
                         and waters.


             b. The Department of State Lands, Department of Land and
                Conservation Development and Department of Fish and Wildlife,
                shall work with the Oregon Ocean Policy Advisory Council, the
                Oregon Ocean Science Trust and Oregon Sea Grant to evaluate
                opportunities to support long-term resilience of nearshore resources
                in Oregon, and incentivize and promote globally competitive ocean-
                reliant products derived through sustainable practices.




                                                                                           HE
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE FOUR




        3.   Conserve Natural Lands and Waters to Act as Resilience Anchors in
             the Face of Climate Change Impacts.


             a.    Ten Percent in Ten Years. Agencies are directed to protect,
                   conserve, connect or restore ten percent of lands and waters in
                   Oregon within ten years as compared to baseline conditions
                   established for 2025.


             b.    Prioritize Key Lands and Waters. Agencies subject to this Order
                   will utilize resilience attributes developed in Section I (1) to
                   prioritize implementation of programs, policies and projects seeking
                   to advance protection, conservation, restoration, or connection of
                   lands and waters in support of the goal of ten percent in ten years.
                   Durability and effectiveness of actions to conserve, protect, restore,
                   or connect lands and waters must be considered in determining
                   whether proposed actions further this directive. Agencies shall seek
                   to maximize implementation of actions with co-benefits such as
                   increased carbon sequestration and biodiversity, improved
                   community health and cultural well-being, enhanced ecosystem
                   health, and/or reduced fire and flood risk.


             c.    Develop Innovative Mitigation Solutions.        The natural resources
                   inter-agency team established in Section II (3) of this Order shall
                   collaborate with Business Oregon as appropriate to explore
                   innovative mitigation tools to support the long-term protection and
                   resilience of land and waters that contain key resilience attributes
                   while ensuring that the economic benefits of mitigation investments
                   support local communities. Consideration shall be given but not be
                   limited to the following potential solutions:


                    i.   Advanced Mitigation Banks: which proactively conserve or
                         restore ecological values in anticipation of future development
                         impacts; and
                   ii.   In-Lieu Fee Programs: which allow project developers to meet
                         mitigation obligations by paying into a state-managed or
                         authorized fund used for strategic conservation, restoration, and
                         landscape resilience projects.
                  iii.   These programs must be designed to:
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE FIVE




                     1.   Maximize ecological outcomes aligned with the protection of
                          lands and waters with key resilience attributes.
                    2.    Retain mitigation revenue within Oregon, ensuring that
                          funds support in-state projects.
                    3.    Allow for creative mitigation portfolios that ensure “no net
                          loss” of lands and waters with key resilience attributes while
                          supporting “net benefit” programs and organizations that
                          protect lands and waters from catastrophic wildfire and/or
                          flooding.
                    4.    Benefit Oregon’s agricultural families and rural communities
                          through partnerships with local landowners, land trusts, and
                          conservation districts.
                    5.    Create durable and locally beneficial conservation outcomes
                          through transparent governance, science-based site selection,
                          and robust monitoring/accountability requirements
                    6.    Leverage private investment and market-based tools in ways
                          that complement existing public funding and programs.


        4.   Lead by Example: State-Owned and Managed Lands and Waters.
             Agencies subject to this Executive Order that own or manage lands or
             waters (including, but not limited to, those identified below) are directed
             to develop and implement strategies to enhance climate resilience as a
             co-benefit of current management objectives and to ensure present and
             future impacts of climate change are explicitly considered in planning
             for the management of those lands and waters.


                     i.   State Parks
                    ii.   State Forests, including the Elliott State Research Forest
                   iii.   State Wildlife Management Areas
                    iv.   State Fish Hatcheries
                    v.    State-Owned Properties/Lands (including Trust lands) not
                          principally owned, operated, or managed in support of
                          structures, offices, or facilities serving state agency
                          programs.

                    vi.   State Held Conservation Easements and/or Leases
                   vii.   State owned submerged and submersible lands and waters,
                          including the Territorial Sea
                  viii.   State-Held Water Rights




                                                                                           HE
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE SIX



        5.   Ensure a Livable Oregon.


             a.    Support and Enhance Local Resilience Efforts through Planning
                   and Action in Collaboration with Communities. The Oregon State
                   Resilience Officer shall lead an effort to create a Plan for a Resilient
                   Oregon (“PRO”) that identifies and offers funding pathways for
                   strategies to help communities adapt and thrive in the face of
                   increasingly severe climate risks, and to support communities in
                   long-term recovery from climate-driven disasters. The following
                   actions shall be taken to implement this directive:


                    i.   Extensive and meaningful outreach with communities shall
                         occur in every region of the State and shall inform the
                         development of the PRO.
                   ii.   Agencies participating in PRO planning and implementation
                         efforts shall utilize existing and available staffing resources.
                  iii.   The PRO will integrate with existing strategies and plans,
                         including those related to wildfire and flood protection, energy
                         resilience, and directives of this Order.


             b.    Protect Oregon from Catastrophic Wildfire.


                    i.   Implement Oregon’s 20-year Landscape Resiliency Plan.
                         Agencies are directed to leverage partnerships and use available
                         programs and resources to reduce the risk of wildfire and public
                         health impacts of smoke by creating resilient natural and
                         working landscapes. The following actions shall be taken to
                         implement this directive:


                         1.   Prioritize landscapes for restoration and resilience treatments
                              and identify pathways to increase the extent and scale of
                              treatments.
                         2.   Maximize dedicated funding to promote partnerships
                              through Good Neighbor Authorities to accomplish large
                              scale landscape resilience treatments.
                         3.   Identify pathways to increase the extent and scale of
                              prescribed burns and cultural burning while minimizing
                              smoke impacts to public health.




                                                                                                E1g
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE SEVEN




                          4.   Support the development and implementation of community
                               smoke response plans. Identify additional measures for
                               timely dissemination of air quality information and alerts
                               during wildfire and prescribed fire events.


                    ii.   Create Fire-Adapted Communities. To safeguard lives,
                          property, and critical infrastructure from the growing threat of
                          wildfires, agencies are directed to support efforts to build Fire-
                          Adapted Communities across the state. The following actions
                          shall be taken to implement this directive:


                          1.   Further defensible space education and establishment across
                               the state. Defensible space is the buffer between a building
                               and the surrounding vegetation that slows or stops the spread
                               of wildfire.
                          2.   Promote increased use of fire-resistant building materials
                               (home hardening) and community design features to reduce
                               structural vulnerability.
                          3.   Promote community risk reduction efforts through volunteer
                               programs such as Firewise, local evacuation route planning,
                               and partnerships to increase community survivability during
                               urban wildfire conflagrations.


     Il.   ACCOUNTABILITY, COORDINATION, AND IMPLEMENTATION


           1.   Executive Branch Agencies Subject to this Order. Progress on the
                direction and commitments of this Order will take focused and
                coordinated planning and execution by Oregon’s natural resource
                agencies, each of which has its own Board or Commission. The
                following state agencies and their Boards or Commissions are subject to
                the goals and directives outlined in this Order as they may apply section
                by section:


                     i.   Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD);
                    ii.   Department of State Lands (DSL);
                   iii.   Oregon Department of Parks and Recreation (OPRD);
                   iv.    Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ);
                    v.    Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA);
                   vi.    Oregon Department of Energy (ODOE);
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE EIGHT




                  vii.    Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODF W);
              viii.       Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries
                          (DOGAMI]);
                   ix.    Oregon Department of Forestry (ODF);
                    x.    Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT);
                   xi.    Oregon Health Authority (OHA) Environmental Public Health;
                  xii.    Oregon Water Resources Department (OWRD);
                  xiii.   Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board (OWEB);
                  xiv.    Public Utility Commission of Oregon (PUC); and
                   xv.    Oregon Climate Action Commission (OCAC).


        2.   Reporting and Accountability. State agencies must deliver transparent,
             accurate reporting on public programs, maintain accountability to
             citizens and stakeholders, and establish clear feedback loops that enable
             public input and demonstrate responsive government action, using the
             following:


             a.     Develop Biennial Plans. Each agency shall develop (or incorporate
                    into an existing planning process) a biennial plan that includes
                    targets and metrics appropriate to the agency’s intersection with this
                    Order with the goal of focusing existing and new resources,
                    programs, and incentives to advance the goals and actions in
                    Sections I and II of this Order as applicable:


                     i.   Public Feedback and Oversight. Agencies will present their
                          biennial plans to their respective board or commission for
                          discussion, review, and comment at a public meeting where
                          public testimony can be received.


                    ii.   Recommendations for Governor’s Recommended Budget
                          (“GRB”). Biennial plans will be developed on a schedule and in
                          a format to inform the development of the GRB starting with the
                          2029-2031 Agency Request Budget (“ARB”) biennial cycle.
                          Actions for consideration for the development of the 2027-2029
                          GRB will be expedited as needed.


                   iii.   Implementation Workplan. Agencies shall immediately begin
                          developing implementation timelines and pathways to comply
                          with this Order. The following existing reporting requirements




                                                                                             Hee
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE NINE


                       related to the goals of this Order will be assessed and
                       consolidated to the extent practicable: the Climate Adaptation
                       and Resilience Roadmap, Forest Climate and Carbon Plan,
                       Connectivity Action Plan, Integrated Water Resources Strategy,
                       Climate Adaptation Framework, Natural Climate Solutions, and
                       others as identified.


             b.   Update Key Performance Measures (“KPMs”). Agencies will
                  work with Department of Administrative Services to review and
                  modify existing plans and KPMs to adjust existing goals as
                  appropriate to integrate with and advance this Order.


             c.   Engagement with Oregon’s Nine Federally Recognized
                  Sovereign Tribal Nations. The State, through the Office of
                  Governor Kotek and the State Agencies within the Natural
                  Resources Cluster Workgroup, shall collaborate with Oregon’s nine
                  federally recognized sovereign tribal nations to build, sustain, and
                  enhance relationships to find common ground in support of the
                  implementation of this Order.


        3.   Coordination and Oversight of Implementation. The Governor’s
             Natural Resources Office will take a leadership role in advancing the
             efforts associated with this Order. It is the responsibility of each
             respective agency director to ensure appropriate coordination and
             implementation contemplated by this Order is integrated into agency
             programs and initiatives.


             a.   Agency Leadership Implementation Team. A group of agency
                  directors and senior staff will be assembled under the auspices of the
                  Governor’s Natural Resources Cabinet. The subgroup, working at
                  the direction of the Governor’s Office and State Agency Natural
                  Resources Cabinet, will:


                  i.   Identify existing initiatives and programs that could benefit from
                       increased cross-agency collaboration and develop
                       recommendations to improve integration of climate resilience
                       programs and actions in this Order. These recommendations will
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


     EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25-26
     PAGE TEN




                        include both policy and budget needs related to the successful
                        implementation of this Order.


                  ii.   Develop recommendations to address critical gaps or barriers
                        (e.g., programs, administrative rules, statutory changes) to the
                        state’s implementation of this Order.


                 iii.   Assess and implement as practicable a State of Oregon Climate
                        Action and Resilience Dashboard to serve as source of
                        information on the work of agencies on this Order.


            b.    Board & Commission Oversight Team. A subgroup of relevant
                  Board and Commission members will be assembled under the
                  auspices of the Governor’s Natural Resources Cabinet. The
                  subgroup will work parallel to the Agency Leadership Team to
                  support the implementation work of the Order.


            c.    Legislative & Public Engagement. As requested, agencies shall
                  provide updates and presentations on implementation work to
                  relevant Boards, Commissions, Councils, Local Governments,
                  Federal Agencies, and the Oregon State Legislature.



                  Done at Salem, Oregon, this 21‘ day of October, 2025.




                                                   Tina Kotek
                                                   GOVERNOR



                                                   Ad ESIC:

                                                                +




                                                         Gil
                                                  Tobias Read
                                                   SECRETARY OF STATE
