Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-21


    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    CURRY COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW STREAMFLOW AND
    HOT, DRY CONDITIONS


    Pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find that extremely low water supply conditions have
    caused natural and economic disaster conditions in Curry County, resulting in a
    severe, continuing drought emergency in that county during 2020.


    Drought conditions arrived early and have persisted, including reduced snowpack,
    precipitation, and subsequent minimal streamflow. The long-term forecast for the
    region continues for warmer than normal temperatures and lower than normal
    precipitation. These conditions have had significant economic impact on
    agriculture, timber, and recreational industries in Curry County.


    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state’s natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.


    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses of Curry County.
    I therefore declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Curry
    County.


    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


       I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
               provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
               conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Curry County.


       UE      The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
               Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
               users in Curry County as the Department and Commission determine is
               necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.


       lll.    The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
               assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
               current and projected conditions in Curry County.




                                                                                           ntains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon


    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-21
    PAGE TWO




       IV.     All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
               agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
               affected political subdivisions and water users in Curry County.


       Vv      This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.



    Done at Salem, Oregon, this 234 day of April, 2020.




                                           Keg huwow—
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR


                                         ATTEST:




                                         Gh Cane
                                         Bev Clarno
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                         Materials
