Oftice of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20


    CONTINUED SUSPENSION OF IN-PERSON K-12 INSTRUCTIONAL
    ACTIVITIES AND THE PROVISION OF SCHOOL-BASED SERVICES IN
    RESPONSE TO CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK


    On February 28, 2020, I appointed the State of Oregon’s Coronavirus Response
    Team.


    On February 29, 2020, the Department of Human Services issued strict guidelines,
    restricting visitation at congregated care facilities, including nursing homes.


    On March 2, 2020, the State of Oregon Emergency Coordination Center was
    activated.                                 |


    On March 8, 2020, I declared an emergency under ORS 401.165 et seg. due to the
    public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19).

    On March 12, 2020, I prohibited gatherings of 250 or more people, and announced
    a statewide closure of Oregon K-12 schools from March 16, 2020, through March
    31, 2020.


    On March 13, 2020, the President of the United States declared the COVID-19 |
    outbreak a national emergency.                         .


    On March 17, 2020, I prohibited gatherings of 25 or more people, banned on-site
    consumption of food and drink at food establishments statewide, and extended
    school closures until April 28, 2020. I also encouraged all businesses not subject to
    the prohibitions to implement social distancing protocols.


    On March 18, 2020, I suspended in-person instructional activities at higher
    education institutions through April 28, 2020.


    On March 22, 2020, I imposed a temporary moratorium on residential evictions for
    nonpayment, prohibiting law enforcement from serving, delivering, or acting on
    any notice, order or writ of termination of tenancy, relating to residential evictions
    for nonpayment.


    On March 23, 2020, I ordered Oregonians to “Stay Home, Save Lives,” directing
    individuals to stay home to the greatest extent possible, ordering the closure of
    specified retail businesses, requiring social distancing measures for other public
    and private facilities, and imposing requirements for outdoor areas and licensed
    childcare facilities.




                                                                                             Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE TWO



    On April 1, 2020, I imposed a temporary moratorium on the termination of
    residential and nonresidential rental agreements and evictions for nonpayment, to
    ensure that individuals can stay at home to the greatest extent possible, and to
    ensure the provision of necessary goods and services during this emergency.


    On April 8, 2020, I announced that school closures and the suspension of in-person
    instructional activities at higher education institutions would be extended through
    the end of the current academic term and school year.


    COVID-19 may cause respiratory disease leading to serious illness or death. The
    World Health Organization considers COVID-19 to be a global pandemic.
    COVID-19 spreads person-to-person through coughing, sneezing, and close
    personal contact, including touching a surface with une virus on it and then
    touching your mouth, nose, or eyes.


    State and local public health officials advise that the virus is circulating in the
    community and expect the number of cases to increase. The United States Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that COVID-19 is most
    contagious when the individual is most symptomatic, but may also spread before
    symptoms appear. CDC has recommended measures to limit spread of the disease
    in the community, including limitations on events and gatherings.


    The number of COVID-19 cases continues to rise in Oregon. On March 8, 2020, at
    the time I declared an emergency, there were 14 presumptive or confirmed cases in
    Oregon. As of today, there are at least 2,059 confirmed cases and 78 deaths.


    Social distancing, the “Stay Home, Save Lives” order, and the other essential
    actions mentioned above have helped slow the spread of COVID-19 in Oregon.
    We must continue to protect the health and lives of Oregonians, particularly those
    at highest risk, as we plan to ease these restrictions over time.


    In order to continue slowing the spread of the disease, and to protect Oregonians at
    the highest risk of contracting the disease, this Executive Order effectuates my
    April 8, 2020, announcement extending K-12 school closures through the end of
    the current school year. It also implements additional measures that will allow
    Oregon schools to provide school-based services in response to the COVID-19
    outbreak.




                                                                                           Contains
                                                                                           Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE THREE



    Every public school must ensure the accessibility of learning to every student, as
    well as the delivery of services that promote student health, safety, and well-being.
    Action is required to ensure the continuity of high quality education, in a fair and
    equitable manner, while protecting public health and safety.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    Pursuant to my powers as Superintendent of Public Instruction, and my emergency
    powers under ORS 433.441, ORS 401.168, ORS 401.175, ORS 401.188, and
    ORS 401.192, I am issuing the following directives:


    1.      Definitions. As used in this Executive Order:


           a.        “Effective period” means April 28, 2020, through June 30, 2020,
                     unless that period is extended or terminated earlier by the Governor.

           Db;       “Public schools” include schools within a school district,
                     educational service district, or public charter, as defined by
                     ORS 330.003(3), ORS 330.005(2), ORS 334.003(2), and
                     ORS 338.005(2).


           om        “Private schools” include private or parochial schools providing
                     courses of study usually taught in kindergarten through grade 12 in
                     the public schools and in attendance for a period equivalent to that
                     required of children attending public schools, as defined in
                 ~   ORS 339.030(1)(a).


    2.     In-person Classroom Instruction Prohibited, All public schools and private
           schools are prohibited from conducting in-person classroom instruction
           during the effective period, unless such instruction is otherwise permitted in
           this Executive Order or through directives issued by the Oregon Department
           of Education (ODE).


    5.      State School Fund Allocations. Public schools shall continue to receive
           allocations from the State School Fund, as if they had been actually in
           session during the effective period, provided that they comply with the
           provisions of this Executive Order.




                                                                                             ie
                                                                                             38
                                                                                              Be
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE FOUR           7



    4.   Continuity of Educational Services. In order to receive allocations from the
         State School Fund during the effective period, public schools shall:


         a.     Provide all students high quality continuous education through
                distance learning and other remote means, pursuant to guidance
                provided by ODE. Public schools may use transportation grant
                funds from the State School Fund for the purposes of providing
                student access to distance learning and educational materials.


         b.     Provide school meals, consistent with requirements provided by the
                ODE and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Transportation grant
                funds from the State School Fund may be used by public schools for
                delivery of meals using school district transportation services.


         om     Provide for critical student services and emergency management _
                services, including but not limited to, social, emotional, and mental
                health support for students, and the provision of childcare for first
                responders, emergency workers, health care professionals, public
                school employees, and other individuals, consistent with any
                guidance and requirements provided by the Oregon Department of
                Education. Public schools may use transportation grant funds from
                the State School Fund for school district transportation services to
                support the transportation of children to and from school-based child
                care.



         d.     Develop plans for the sustained, equitable delivery of distance
                learning and critical services to students and families, including but
                not limited to, food services, and social, emotional and mental health
                support. To the extent practical, these plans shall be developed in
                partnership with social service agencies, and community-based and
                culturally-specific organizations.


         €,     Regularly pay public school employees, subject to budget and
                personnel decisions. All employees shall report to work, or
                telework if authorized, and fulfill duties as may be assigned by their
                public school employers, consistent with the provisions of this
                Executive Order and guidance from ODE.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE FIVE



    SF   Rulemaking. The Oregon State Board of Education, in collaboration with
         the ODE, shall engage in any temporary rulemaking necessary to facilitate
         the directives in this Executive Order, and the ability of public schools to
         respond to the ongoing emergency. Rulemaking shall include, but not be
         limited to, amendment of the instructional time requirements of OAR 581-
         022-1620.                                                   |


    6.   Guidance. ODE shall provide further guidance regarding the directives set
         forth in this Executive Order, as necessary.


    ve   Continuity of Mental Health Services. ODE, the Oregon Health Authority
         (OHA), and the Department of Human Services are directed to provide
         guidance to school districts and communities to ensure continuity of mental
         health services to children and their families.


    8.   Continuity of Emergency Childcare. ODE, Early Learning Division, and
         the Department of Human Services are directed to collaborate and align
         resources to support and ensure the reimbursement for, continuity of, and
         availability of care provided by family-based, center-based, and license-
         exempt childcare providers. In consultation with the Early Learning
         Council, the Early Learning System Director is hereby directed and
         authorized to waive, suspend, or amend existing administrative rules
         pertaining to childcare, and to establish requirements for emergency
         childcare, pursuant to paragraph 4(c) of this Executive Order.


    o.   Public School Facilities. During the effective period, public schools shall
         limit school facility operations only to essential functions, consistent with
         any social distancing requirements set forth by OHA. For purposes of this
         paragraph, essential functions include, but are not limited to:


         a.     Use of facilities to facilitate the provision of continuous education
                by remote means, student meal programs, critical student services,
                and emergency management services, as set forth in paragraph 4 of
                this Executive Order, and consistent with guidance provided by
                ODE.
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE SIX



            b.     Limited in-person instruction and small group instruction, where
                   necessary and appropriate, to fulfill educational requirements for
                   students, for extended learning or summer learning opportunities,
                   and for other purposes, consistent with guidance provided by ODE
                   and OHA.


            c.     The provision of services for youth in Juvenile Detention Education
                   and Youth Corrections Education Programs.


            d.     Emergency childcare services provided by public schools within
                   public school facilities, in accordance with the directives for
                   childcare facilities under Executive Order 20-12, and guidance
                   provided by ODE and Early Learning Division.


    10.     Telework and Work-from-home. During the effective period, public
            schools and private schools shall facilitate telework arrangements and work-
            at-home by employees, to the maximum extent possible, and comply with
            other social distancing requirements set forth by OHA.


    lath.   Social Distancing Requirements. Public schools and private schools shall
            designate a person or officer to establish, implement, and enforce social
            distancing requirements, consistent with guidance from OHA. When in-
            person interactions are required, social distancing measures must be
            implemented and enforced to the maximum extent possible.


    12.     At-risk Employees. Nothing in this Executive Order should be construed to
            require public school or private school employees in at-risk categories, or
            public school or private school employees who have an at-risk member of
            their household, to take action inconsistent with public health
            recommendations or the advice of the employee’s physician.


    163)    Executive Order No. 20-08 Rescinded. Executive Order No. 20-08 (school
            closures) is rescinded as of April 28, 2020, and replaced by the directives in
            this Executive Order.




                                                                                             Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-20
    PAGE SEVEN



    This Executive Order is issued under the authority conferred to the Governor by —
    ORS 401.165 to 401.236. Pursuant to ORS 401.192(1), the directives set forth in
    this Executive Order shall have the full force and effect of law, and any existing
    laws, ordinances, rules and orders shall be inoperative to the extent they are
    inconsistent with this exercise of the Governor’s emergency powers.


    Done at Salem, Oregon, this 23" day of April, 2020.




                                                   —
                                           Kite Leow
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR


                                         ATTEST:




                                          CAC os
                                         Bev Clarno
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                         terials
