Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-17


    PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY DUE TO IMMINENT
    THREAT OF WILDFIRE


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165 ef seq., I find that the State of Oregon is in a critical fire
    danger situation. We have experienced wildfires this season that resulted in
    multiple State conflagrations and federal Fire Mitigation Assistance Grant (FMAG)
    declarations, community evacuations, threatened and damaged critical
    infrastructure, and destroyed homes and other structures. Our neighboring states of
    Washington, California, and Idaho, continue to experience similar fires and
    weather. The extended climate forecast in Oregon calls for continued warm and dry
    conditions, resulting in imminent threat of fire over a broad area of the State.

    The Oregon Department of Forestry is heavily engaged in initial and extended
    wildfire attack and Incident Management Teams are currently deployed in Oregon.
    New and existing fire threats elevate the need prepare for access to state resources
    including firefighting aircraft. This threat is not likely to recede in the near future. It
    is critically important that state resources like the National Guard be prepared to
    expedite requested resources and respond effectively to these dangerous and
    dynamic conditions, if requested.


    Therefore, I hereby declare a statewide State of Emergency due to the imminent
    and ongoing threat of wildfire.



    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


    1. All agencies of the state government will utilize and employ state personnel,
       equipment, and facilities for any and all activities as directed by the Oregon
       Department of Emergency Management to meet requests by the Oregon
       Department of Forestry, the Oregon Department of State Fire Marshal, and/or
       county emergency management and response needs to respond to or mitigate
       the effects of the wildfire emergency as described in the state’s Emergency
       Operations Plan. The Oregon National Guard will deploy and redeploy
       firefighting resources as needed and in accordance with Operations Agreement
       Smokey 2023 throughout the remainder of the fire season based upon threat and
       resource shortfalls. All citizens are to heed the advice of emergency officials
       regarding this emergency in order to protect their safety.

    2. This determination of a wildfire emergency is statewide. It is not to be
       construed as a comprehensive declaration or proclamation of emergency for
       other purposes. It is limited to the use of state resources and personnel for fire
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-17
    PAGE TWO



         management required by the emergency, to request assistance through the
         Emergency Management Assistance Compact if needed, and to allow state
         agencies to suspend provisions of any order or rule of the agency if strict
         compliance with the provisions of the order or rule would in any way prevent,
         hinder or delay mitigating the effects of the wildfire emergency. Any local
         government requests for state resources must be submitted through county
         governing bodies to the Department of Emergency Management pursuant to
         ORS Chapter 401.


    Jo   This order was made by verbal proclamation at 4:06 pm on July 28, 2023, and
         signed on August 2, 2023, in Salem, Oregon.


         This order shall remain in effect until the threat is significantly relieved or the
         fire season ends, as determined by the Governor or December 31, 2023
         whichever occurs first.


         Done at Salem, Oregon, this 2nd day of August, 2023.




                                                        OC) aa —[
                                                     Tina Kotek
                                                     GOVERNOR




                                                 /
                                                     LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                     SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                               fi3
