    Office of the Governor
    State of Oregon

        EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-06


        While Native American tribes have been here since time immemorial, Executive
        Order 96-30 made Oregon history in 1996 by establishing formal government-to-
        government relations between the State of Oregon and the nine federally
        recognized Indian Tribes that reside within Oregon’s borders. Those government-
        to-government relations were codified by the Oregon Legislature with SB 770
        (2001). For over two decades, the 9 sovereign tribal nations and State of Oregon
        have benefitted from productive and enhanced consultation about state and tribal
        interests.


        For much of Oregon’s history, Tribes have had an interest in obtaining information
        relating to cultural items currently held in storage or on display at Oregon state
        agencies, state universities, colleges, and public schools. Executive Order 17-12
        directed the creation of a Governor’s Task Force on Oregon Tribal Items (“the Task
        Force”) to survey these public entities. The Task Force completed the hard work of
        determining best practices for gathering information, developing definitions of
        cultural items, and providing training to state agencies on how to conduct these
        surveys. In 2019, Oregon was the first in the nation to report out its survey findings
        of tribal cultural items. The Task Force also established a process for annual
        updates by state agencies.


        In March 2020, the Task Force began the next phase of surveying the public
        universities and community colleges. During the COVID pandemic, this new
        phase, as well as the state agencies’ updates, stalled and have been on pause. It is
        time to renew this important work for the tribes and the state. The resumption of
        the Task Force will continue the process for identifying best practices for gathering
        information about these types of cultural items associated with Oregon Tribes. The
        Task Force will also work on developing the most appropriate next steps for
        establishing workable strategies for determining the provenance, the appropriate
|       custodian, and the appropriate storage or display of such items.

        NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:


            1. The Task Force on Oregon Tribal Cultural Items (“the Task Force”) is re-
                 established.


            2.   The Members of the Task Force shall include the following:

                     a.   The Governor’s Tribal Affairs Office Director or other designee;




                                                                                                 Contains
                                                                                                 Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-06
    PAGE TWO




              b.   Any additional member of the Governor’s staff as directed by the
                   Governor;


              c.   A representative of the State Historic Preservation Office, appointed
                   by the Governor upon recommendation of the Director of the
                   Oregon Parks and Recreation Department;


              d.   A State Agency Director, appointed by the Governor;


              e.   A representative of the Legislative Commission on Indian Services;


              f.   Tribal Chairs and Councils shall appoint a representative from each
                   of the nine federally recognized Oregon Tribes;


              g.   One or more representatives of one or more public universities or
                   colleges, appointed by the Governor;


              h.   One or more representatives of primary or secondary Oregon public
                   schools, appointed by the Governor.


              i.   Other Members as invited by the Governor.


      3.   In partnership with the Governor’s Tribal Affairs Office Director, the
           Legislative Commission on Indian Services shall be the lead entity
           responsible for convening the Task Force.


      4.   The Task Force’s purpose is to provide advice to the Governor.


      5.   The Task Force shall meet to consider a process for a soliciting information
           from state public institutions and agencies about items they may have in
           storage or on display associated with Oregon Tribes.




                                                                                           Contains
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-06
    PAGE THREE




      6.   The task force shall submit an annual report beginning in 2025 to the
           Governor setting forth its view of the progress of the State toward achieving
           the goal of establishing a process to determine best practices for gathering
           information about these types of cultural items associated with Oregon
           Tribes and for determining the most appropriate next steps for establishing
           workable strategies and plans for discussion regarding these tribal objects of
           cultural significance.


      7.   This Executive Order replaces Executive Order 17-12.



           Done at Portland, Oregon, this 30" day of January, 2024.




                                                  Tina Kotek
                                                  GOVERNOR


                                                  OESTe




                                                  LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                  SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                            Contains
