Office of the Governor
State of Oregon




EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-33


DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN JOSEPHINE,
LINN, AND YAMHILL COUNTIES DUE TO LACK OF PRECIPITATION, LOW
SNOWPACK, LOW RESERVOIR LEVELS, AND LOW STREAMFLOW.

At the request of Josephine County (by Resolution No. 2021-036 dated September 1, 2021), Linn
County (by Resolution & Order No. 2021-301 dated August 24, 2021), Yamhill County (by
Board Order 21-354 and Resolution 21-8-19-3 dated August, 19, 2021), and based on the
recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply Availability
Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the lack of precipitation, low snowpack, low
reservoir levels, and low streamflow have caused or will cause natural and economic disaster
conditions in these 3 counties.


Forecasted water supply conditions and precipitation levels are not expected to improve. Drought
is likely to have a significant economic impact on the farm, ranch, vineyard, recreation, and
natural resources sectors, as well as an impact on drinking water, fish and wildlife, important
minimum flows for public instream uses and other natural resources dependent on adequate
precipitation, stored water, and streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions are expected to
affect local growers, increase the potential for fire, shorten the growing season, and decrease
water supplies.


Conditions continue to be monitored by the State’s natural resource and public safety agencies,
including the Oregon Water Resources Department, the Oregon Office of Emergency
Management, the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal, and the Oregon Department of
Forestry’s Fire Protection Division.


Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons, property, and
the economic security of the citizens and businesses of these counties. I, therefore, declare that a
severe, continuing drought emergency exists and is likely to continue to exist in Josephine, Linn,
and Yamhill Counties.


NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

   I.      The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and provide
           assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought conditions and assist in
           agricultural recovery in Josephine, Linn, and Yamhill Counties.



                                                                                                       Contains
                                                                                                       Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon




EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 21-33
PAGE TWO



  IL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources Commission are
        directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water users in Josephine, Linn, and
        Yamhill Counties as the Department and Commission determine necessary and
        appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

  UL.   The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek information from the
        Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help understand the impacts of water
        availability on Oregon’s fish and wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance
        with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

  IV.   The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and assist as needed
        with assessment and mitigation activities to address current and projected conditions
        in Josephine, Linn, and Yamhill Counties.

        All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above agencies and
        provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist affected political subdivisions
        and water users in Josephine, Linn, and Yamhill Counties.

  wae   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2021.

        Done at Salem, Oregon, this 20'" day of September, 2021.




                                            K e t o u r —
                                          Kate Brown
                                          GOVERNOR


                                          ATTEST:       Y ah

                                           Shemia Fagan
                                           SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                                  Contains
                                                                                                  Recycled
                                                                                                  M.
