Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-04


    DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY IN LANE COUNTY DUE
    TO A SEVERE WINTER STORM THAT INCLUDED HIGH WINDS, ICE,
    FREEZING RAIN, AND EXTREME COLD


    Pursuant to ORS 401.165, I find that a threat to life, safety and property exists due
    to a severe winter storm that has caused a natural disaster in Lane County.

    Beginning Jan. 12, 2024, and continuing, this severe storm has brought cold
    temperatures, snow, freezing rain, high winds, and ice, resulting in disruptions to
    mass care and medical services, power and communications outages, infrastructure
    damage, and transportation disruptions posing a risk to the health and welfare of
    Oregonians. It is necessary to act to minimize and reduce the risk of harm and loss
    of life.


    The geographic scope of this emergency may increase during this emergency, and
    the geographic scope of this emergency declaration may be expanded as additional
    impacts become known and other counties exhaust their ability to provide services
    and seek assistance pursuant to ORS 401.165.


        NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

               1. The Oregon Department of Emergency Management (ODEM) shall
                  coordinate access to and use of personnel and equipment of all state
                  agencies necessary to assess, alleviate, respond to, mitigate or recover
                  from conditions caused by this emergency. ODEM shall coordinate
                  all essential protective measures in support of identified disaster
                  areas to protect lives, property and the environment. All Oregonians
                  are to heed the direction of emergency officials with regard to this
                  emergency in order to protect their safety.


               2. The Oregon Department of Human Services, Oregon Health Authority,
                  Oregon State Police, Oregon Department of Transportation, Oregon
                  Public Utility Commission, and other state agencies are directed to
                  provide any assistance as requested by ODEM that is deemed necessary
                  to assist in the response to this emergency and to provide all necessary
                  support to Lane County response, recovery and mitigation efforts.




                                                                                             HI
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 24-04
    PAGE TWO


        3.   This determination of a severe winter weather emergency is limited to
             Lane County at this time. It is not to be construed as a comprehensive
             declaration or proclamation of emergency for other purposes. It is limited
             to the use of state resources and personnel required by the emergency, to
             request assistance through the Emergency Management Assistance


             Compact, if needed, and to allow state agencies to suspend provisions of
             any order or rule of the agency if strict compliance with the provisions of
             the order or rule would in any way prevent, hinder or delay mitigating
             the effects of the severe winter weather emergency. Any local
             government requests for state resources must be submitted through
             county governing bodies to the Oregon Department of Emergency
             Management pursuant to ORS Chapter 401.


        5. This state of emergency shall exist until 11:59 p.m., January 26,
             2024, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Governor.


             Done at Salem, Oregon, this 19" day of January, 2024.




                                                 Tina Kotek
                                                 GOVERNOR




                                           Fave: Crafts-idhade
                                                 LaVonne Griffin-Valade
                                                 SECRETARY OF STATE




                                                                                           Hige
