Office of the eae,
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-05


    PROHIBITING LARGE GATHERINGS DUE TO CORONAVIRUS
    (COVID-19) OUTBREAK IN OREGON


    On March 8, 2020, I declared an emergency under ORS 401.165 et seq. due to the
    public health threat posed by the novel infectious coronavirus (COVID-19).

    On March 10, 2020, based on recommendations from the Oregon Health Authority,
    the Department of Human Services imposed restrictions and protective measures to
    limit visitors to long term care facilities to only essential personnel. The Oregon
    Health Authority is taking similar measures at the Oregon State Hospital and in
    other behavioral health settings.


    On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced that COVID-19 is a
    global pandemic.


    As of today, there are 21 presumptive or confirmed coronavirus cases in Oregon,
    and state and local public health officials have advised that the virus is circulating
    in the community and that they expect the number of cases to increase.

    COVID-19 spreads person-to-person through coughing and sneezing, close
    personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands, or touching an object or
    surface with the virus on it, and then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes. The
    symptoms are fever, cough and difficulty breathing.


    Consistent with the mitigation strategies for communities recommended by the
    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with regard to COVID-19, in
    order to slow the spread of the disease, and to protect the Oregonians who are at
    highest risk for contracting the disease, I find that immediate implementation of
    social distancing and community mitigation measures are necessary.


    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED THAT:


        Ite     Pursuant to ORS 433.441(3)(a) and (d), ORS 401.175(1), and ORS
                401.188(2), I am prohibiting large social, spiritual, and recreational
                gatherings of 250 people or more, statewide.


        2       Gatherings subject to Paragraph 1 of this Executive Order include, but
                are not limited to, community, civic, public, leisure, faith-based, and
                sporting events, concerts, conventions, fundraisers, and any similar
                events or activities, if a distance of at least three (3) feet between
                individuals cannot be maintained.




                                                                                             Materials
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-05
    PAGE TWO



       CF      Paragraph 1 of this Executive Order does not apply to school
               attendance, places of employment, grocery stores, or retail stores.


       4,      I delegate authority to the Oregon Health Authority and the Public
               Health Director to provide guidance regarding the types and categories
               of gatherings subject to this Executive Order.


       oy      Beginning on March 16, 2020, any person found to be in violation of
               this order is subject to the penalties described in ORS 401.990.


    This Executive Orderis in effect immediately and remains in effect until April 8,
    2020, unless extended or terminated earlier by the Governor.


    Done at Portland, Oregon this 12" day of March, 2020.




                                                   ue 5
                                         Kate Brown
                                         GOVERNOR



                                         ATTEST:




                                                Chas Coane
                                         Bev Clarno
                                         SECRETARY OF STATE
