Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-46

    DETERMINATION OF A STATE OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY IN
    BAKER COUNTY DUE TO UNUSUALLY LOW WATER SUPPLIES AND
    HOT, DRY CONDITIONS

    At the request of Baker County (by Resolution dated September 2, 2020) and based
    on the recommendations of the Drought Readiness Council and the Water Supply
    Availability Committee, and pursuant to ORS 536.740, I find the continuing hot
    and dry conditions and lack of precipitation have caused natural and economic
    disaster conditions in this county.

    Forecasted water supply conditions are not expected to improve, and drought is
    likely to have significant economic impacts on the farm, forest, recreation, drinking
    water, and natural resources sectors, as well as impacts on fish and wildlife and
    other natural resources which are dependent on adequate precipitation and
    streamflow in these areas. Extreme conditions have already affected local growers,
    and increased the potential for fire, a loss of economic stability, shortened growing
    season, and decreased water supplies.

    Conditions continue to be monitored by the state's natural resource and public
    safety agencies, including the Oregon Water Resources Department and the Oregon
    Office of Emergency Management.

    Preparation and resiliency to drought are vital to the health and safety of persons,
    property, and the economic security of the citizens and businesses. I therefore
    declare that a severe, continuing drought emergency exists in Baker County.

    NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DIRECTED AND ORDERED:

       I.       The Oregon Department of Agriculture is directed to coordinate and
                provide assistance in seeking federal resources to mitigate drought
                conditions and to assist in agricultural recovery in Baker County.

       ne       The Oregon Water Resources Department and the Water Resources
                Commission are directed to coordinate and provide assistance to water
                users in Baker County as the Department and Commission determine is
                necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700 to 536.780.

       Ill.   | The Oregon Water Resources Department is directed to seek
                information from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to help
                understand the impacts of water availability on Oregon's fish and
                wildlife, as necessary and appropriate in accordance with ORS 536.700
                to 536.780.

       IV.      The Office of Emergency Management is directed to coordinate and
                assist as needed with assessment and mitigation activities to address
                current and projected conditions in Baker County.




                                                                                            Contains
                                                                                            Recycled
Office of the Governor
State of Oregon

    EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 20-46
    PAGE TWO



      V.    All other state agencies are directed to coordinate with the above
            agencies and to provide appropriate state resources as needed to assist
            affected political subdivisions and water users in Baker County.

      VI.   This Executive Order expires on December 31, 2020.

            Done at Salem, Oregon, this 15" day of September 2020.


                                              —
                                        Kt: Lou
                                      Kate Brown
                                      GOVERNOR



                                      ATTEST:


                                            ChCOa  s
                                                 aren es
                                      Bev Clarno
                                      SECRETARY OF STATE
