 
 
 
 
 SP 800-53 Rev. 5, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations | CSRC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window. 
 This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to https://csrc.nist.gov . 
 

 
 
 
 
 You have JavaScript disabled. This site requires JavaScript to be enabled for complete site functionality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 An official website of the United States government
 
 Here’s how you know 
 
 
 Here’s how you know 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Official websites use .gov A
 .gov website belongs to an official government
 organization in the United States.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A
 lock (
 
 
 Lock 
 Locked padlock icon 
 
 
 ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
 the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
 secure websites.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CSRC MENU 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Search 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Projects 
 
 
 Publications
 
 Expand or Collapse 
 
 
 
 
 
 Drafts for Public Comment 
 All Public Drafts 
 Final Pubs 
 FIPS (standards) 
 
 
 Special Publications (SP s ) 
 IR (interagency/internal reports) 
 CSWP (cybersecurity white papers) 
 ITL Bulletins 
 
 
 Project Descriptions 
 Journal Articles 
 Conference Papers 
 Books 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Topics
 
 Expand or Collapse 
 
 
 
 
 
 Security & Privacy 
 Applications 
 
 
 Technologies 
 Sectors 
 
 
 Laws & Regulations 
 Activities & Products 
 
 
 
 
 News & Updates 
 Events 
 Glossary 
 
 
 About CSRC
 
 Expand or Collapse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Computer Security Division 
 
 Cryptographic Technology 
 Software Security Group 
 Hardware Security Group 
 Security Engineering and Risk Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 Applied Cybersecurity Division 
 
 Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications 
 National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) 
 National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) 
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Information Technology Laboratory 
 
 
 Computer Security Resource Center 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 




 
 
 
 Publications 
 



 
 
 NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5
 
 
 
 
 
 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations 
 

 
 Share to Facebook 
 Share to X 
 Share to LinkedIn 
 Share ia Email 
 
 
 
    
 Documentation 
    
 Topics 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Date Published: September 2020 (includes updates as of Dec. 10, 2020) 
 
 


 

 Supersedes: 
 
 SP 800-53 Rev. 5 (09/23/2020) 
 

 
 Planning Note ( 08/27/2025 ): 
 


 On August 27, 2025, NIST issued a minor release of SP 800-53 (Release 5.2.0) that includes: 
 
 New Control/Control Enhancements: SA-15(13), SA-24, SI-02(07) 
 Revisions to Existing Controls: SI-07(12) 
 Updates to Control Discussion: SA-04, SA-05, SA-08, SA-08(14), SI-02, SI-02(05) 
 Updates to Related Controls: All -01 Controls, AU-02, AU-03, CA-07, IR-04, IR-06, IR-08, SA-15, SI-02, SI-07 
 
 A list of all the changes in the patch release is available under Supplemental Material. 
 *** 
 Summary of supplemental files: 
 
 Analysis of updates between 800-53 Rev. 5 and Rev. 4 (Updated 1/07/22) Describes the changes to each control and control enhancement, provides a brief summary of the changes, and includes an assessment of the significance of the changes.  Note that this comparison was authored by The MITRE Corporation for the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) and is being shared with permission by DNI.   
 Mapping of Appendix J Privacy Controls (Rev. 4) to Rev. 5 Supports organizations using the privacy controls in Appendix J of SP 800-53 Rev. 4 that are transitioning to the integrated control catalog in Rev. 5.   
 Mappings and crosswalks between 800-53 Rev. 5 and other frameworks and standards ( NIST Cybersecurity Framework and NIST Privacy Framework ; ISO/IEC 27001:2022 ) Mappings and crosswalks provide a general indication of SP 800-53 control coverage with respect to other frameworks and standards. When leveraging these relationships, consider the scope and intended use of each publication. Do not assume equivalency based solely on relationship tables; mappings and crosswalks are not always one-to-one and relationship analysis can be subjective. 
 
 Also available: 
 
 Security and Privacy Control Collaboration Index Template ( Excel & Word ) The collaboration index template supports information security and privacy program collaboration to help ensure that the objectives of both disciplines are met and that risks are appropriately managed. It is an optional tool for information security and privacy programs to identify the degree of collaboration needed between security and privacy programs with respect to the selection and/or implementation of controls in Rev. 5.   
 OSCAL version of 800-53 Rev. 5 controls Rev. 5 controls are provided using the  Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL); currently available in JSON, XML, and YAML. 
 
 

 Author(s) 
 
 Joint Task Force 





 
 Abstract 
 This publication provides a catalog of security and privacy controls for information systems and organizations to protect organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation from a diverse set of threats and risks, including hostile attacks, human errors, natural disasters, structural failures, foreign intelligence entities, and privacy risks. The controls are flexible and customizable and implemented as part of an organization-wide process to manage risk. The controls address diverse requirements derived from mission and business needs, laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Finally, the consolidated control catalog addresses security and privacy from a functionality perspective (i.e., the strength of functions and mechanisms provided by the controls) and from an assurance perspective (i.e., the measure of confidence in the security or privacy capability provided by the controls). Addressing functionality and assurance helps to ensure that information technology products and the systems that rely on those products are sufficiently trustworthy. 
 
 
 
 This publication provides a catalog of security and privacy controls for information systems and organizations to protect organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation from a diverse set of threats and risks, including hostile attacks, human errors, natural...
 See full abstract 
 
 
 This publication provides a catalog of security and privacy controls for information systems and organizations to protect organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation from a diverse set of threats and risks, including hostile attacks, human errors, natural disasters, structural failures, foreign intelligence entities, and privacy risks. The controls are flexible and customizable and implemented as part of an organization-wide process to manage risk. The controls address diverse requirements derived from mission and business needs, laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Finally, the consolidated control catalog addresses security and privacy from a functionality perspective (i.e., the strength of functions and mechanisms provided by the controls) and from an assurance perspective (i.e., the measure of confidence in the security or privacy capability provided by the controls). Addressing functionality and assurance helps to ensure that information technology products and the systems that rely on those products are sufficiently trustworthy. 
 
 Hide full abstract 
 
 
 Keywords 
 
 assurance ; availability ; computer security ; confidentiality ; control ; cybersecurity ; FISMA ; information security ; information system ; integrity ; personally identifiable information ; Privacy Act ; privacy controls ; privacy functions ; privacy requirements ; Risk Management Framework ; security controls ; security functions ; security requirements ; system ; system security 
 


 Control Families 
 
 
 Access Control ; Awareness and Training ; Audit and Accountability ; Assessment, Authorization and Monitoring ; Configuration Management ; Contingency Planning ; Identification and Authentication ; Incident Response ; Maintenance ; Media Protection ; Physical and Environmental Protection ; Planning ; Program Management ; Personnel Security ; PII Processing and Transparency ; Risk Assessment ; System and Services Acquisition ; System and Communications Protection ; System and Information Integrity ; Supply Chain Risk Management 
 

 


 


 


 Documentation 


 
 Publication: 

 
 
 https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53r5
 

 
 
 Download URL
 


 


 
 Supplemental Material: 
 
 SP 800-53 Release 5.2.0 
 Summary of Changes SP 800-53 Release 5.2.0 (pdf) 
 Analysis of updates between 800-53 Rev. 5 and Rev. 4, by MITRE Corp. for ODNI (xlsx) 
 Mapping: Appendix J Privacy Controls (Rev. 4) to Rev. 5 (xlsx) 
 Mappings: Cybersecurity Framework and Privacy Framework to Rev. 5 (xlsx) 
 Crosswalk: 800-53 Rev. 5 to ISO/IEC 27001:2022 (OLIR) 
 OSCAL Version of Rev. 5 controls 
 Control Collaboration Index Template (xlsx) 
 Control Collaboration Index Template (docx) 
 Blog post 
 
 

 
 
 Publication Parts: 
 
 SP 800-53A Rev. 5 
 SP 800-53B 
 
 
 
 


 
 Related NIST Publications: 
 
 IR 8170 
 
 

 
 Document History: 
 
 12/10/20: SP 800-53 Rev. 5 (Final) 
 
 

 

 
 Topics 

 Security and Privacy 
 
 privacy controls , security controls , security programs & operations 
 Laws and Regulations 
 
 E-Government Act , Executive Order 14306 , Federal Information Security Modernization Act , Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 , Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7 , OMB Circular A-11 , OMB Circular A-130 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 HEADQUARTERS 
 100 Bureau Drive 
 Gaithersburg, MD 20899
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 X (link is external) 
 
 
 
 
 facebook (link is external) 
 

 
 
 
 linkedin (link is external) 
 

 
 
 
 instagram 
 (link is external) 
 

 
 
 
 youtube (link is external) 
 

 
 
 
 rss 
 

 
 
 
 govdelivery (link is external) 
 
 
 
 
 Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Contact Us |
 Our Other Offices 
 
 
 
 
 Send inquiries to [email protected] 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Site Privacy 
 Accessibility 
 Privacy Program 
 Copyrights 
 Vulnerability Disclosure 
 No Fear Act Policy 
 FOIA 
 Environmental Policy 
 Scientific Integrity 
 Information Quality Standards 
 Commerce.gov 
 Science.gov 
 USA.gov 
 Vote.gov 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
