                         OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
                                                       NUMBER                      SUPERSEDES

                                                       50.30.00                   50.30.00.PO & .PR
                                                                                  dated 11/01/2002
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                       EFFECTIVE DATE             PAGE NUMBER

                                                       TBD                        Pages 1 of 2
 Division                                              REFERENCE/AUTHORITY
 Chief Financial Office
                                                       Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 61(a)(1) – Gross
 Policy Owner                                          Income. Compensation from services, including fees,
                                                       commissions, fringe benefits and similar items.
 Statewide Accounting and Reporting
                                                       Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Regulations Section
 Services                                              1.61-21 – Taxation of Fringe Benefits.
                                                       Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Publications 5137 –
                                                       Fringe Benefit Guide for Federal, State and Local
                                                       Governments, and 15-B – Fringe Benefits.

 SUBJECT                                               APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Tax Issues – Fringe Benefits - Vehicles
                                                       George Naughton, Chief Financial Officer
                                                       Signature on file

PURPOSE
To address taxability, valuation and reporting related to personal use of employer-provided vehicles.
Nothing in this policy infers eligibility for benefits not otherwise allowed under federal or state law, rule,
regulation or policy.

APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all state agencies as defined in OAM 01.05.00.

FORMS/EXHIBITS/INSTRUCTIONS
The following related guidance addresses appropriate uses and record-keeping requirements for
employer-provided vehicles.
   • ORS 283.395 – Driving State-Owned Vehicles
   • OAR 125-155 – State Vehicle Use and Access
   • DAS Statewide Policy 1070-011-040 – Fleet Management, Statewide
   • DAS Internal Policy 107-07-030 – Taxable Fringe Benefits

DEFINITIONS
Click here for other definitions.

EXCLUSIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS
None.

GENERAL INFORMATION
State vehicles are intended for official state business only. Legitimate personal use, incidental to state
business, is sometimes unavoidable. The IRS updates tax requirements on personal use of state
vehicles periodically. Unless a specific exclusion applies, such as for minimal use, specialty vehicles, or
officially designated offices in the home, personal use is taxable. The topic falls under gross income in

Policy No: 50-30-00 | Effective: TBD                                                                 Page 1 of 3
the federal tax code, fringe benefits in the regulations with general administrative guidance in
Publication 15-B and specifics for governments in Publication 5137.

POLICY:

.101     Use of state-owned vehicles for other than official state business is not allowed per ORS
        283.395 except in the limited circumstances where it is incidental to state business. OAR 125-
        155 provides rules for the use of state vehicles.

.102    Strict business use, allowed by the state, is not considered taxable by the IRS. Strict personal
        use, dis-allowed by the state, is considered taxable by the IRS. Legitimate personal use,
        incidental to state business, may be considered taxable by the IRS, depending on
        circumstances.

.103    Unless specifically excludable per IRS guidelines, use of an employer-provided vehicle between
        the employee’s home and official duty station is considered a “commute” to be treated as a
        taxable fringe benefit. The fair market value of this personal use is reported as taxable income
        on the employee’s W-2 form.

PROCEDURES:

Determination of Taxable Amount

.104    If employee classifications, vehicle types, amounts and percentages of business and personal
        use fall within certain parameters, simplified methods to determine fair market value of personal
        use may be available. Otherwise, fair market value of the personal use is calculated according
        to IRS annual lease values.

.105    The agency is required to notify each employee who garages a state vehicle at home that there
        is a taxable value associated with each commute to the official duty station and the method that
        will be used to value the commute. The agency is required to define a record-keeping
        methodology and notify the employee of the requirements.

.106    Commuting between the employee’s home and official duty station (personal use) in a state-
        owned vehicle is valued using one of the following valuation rules. Please consult IRS
        Publications 15-B and 5137 for current rates.

        Commuting Valuation Rule       Allows a simple flat fee per each one-way trip.

        Cents-Per-Mile Rule            Allows use of IRS standard mileage rate with an allowance for fuel
                                       if not provided by the employer.

        Annual Lease Value Rule        Makes use of lookup table values in IRS Publication 15-B
                                       multiplied by the percentage of personal versus business use.

.107    The employee is required to maintain a monthly or quarterly log of the miles per each one-way
        or round-trip commute and provide that signed and dated log to the agency at the end of the
        month or quarter.

Reporting Procedure



Policy No: 50-30-00 | Effective: TBD                                                               Page 2 of 3
.108    These fringe benefits are reported through the payroll system either monthly or quarterly. Since
        the value of these non-cash fringe benefits might not be determinable for employers until after
        the end of a month when usage logs are turned in, the IRS allows use of a special accounting
        rule where reporting for the months of November and December can be deferred to the next tax
        year; that is, tax year reporting can be for benefits received for the period November 1 through
        October 31 of the next year.




Policy No: 50-30-00 | Effective: TBD                                                          Page 3 of 3
