                            OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
                                                  NUMBER                    SUPERSEDES
                                                  45.10.00                  45.10.00.PO
                                                                            45.10.00.PR
 STATEWIDE POLICY                                                           dated 02/27/2008

                                                  EFFECTIVE DATE            PAGE NUMBER
                                                  MM/DD/YYYY                Pages 1 of 3

 Division                                         REFERENCE/AUTHORITY
 Chief Financial Office                           ORS 292.036
                                                  ORS 292.045 – 292.070
 Policy Owner                                     ORS 652.610
 Office of the State Controller | Oregon
 Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS)

 SUBJECT                                          APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Voluntary Deductions



PURPOSE
This policy describes the circumstances under which modifications will be made in the Oregon
Workday Payroll System to process voluntary deductions from the pay of state employees.


APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all state agencies that are subject to the Oregon Accounting Manual (OAM), as
outlined in OAM 01.05.00 Introduction: Scope and Applicability. If any provisions of OAM policies or
procedures conflict with bargaining agreements, the provisions of bargaining agreements would
supersede OAM guidance.


FORMS/EXHIBITS/INSTRUCTIONS
None.


DEFINITIONS
Funds recipient refers to any entity receiving funds from an employee’s authorized voluntary deduction.

Refer to OAM 65.00.00 Glossary for definitions.


EXCLUSIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS
None.



Policy No: 45.10.00 | Effective:                                                            Page 1 of 3
POLICY:

       .101    This policy describes the circumstances under which modifications will be made to the
               Workday Payroll System to process voluntary deductions from the pay of state
               employees.


Authorization to Create Deduction Codes

       .102    Creating structure in the Workday Payroll System for the voluntary deduction of funds
               from employee salary and wages, must be permitted in the Oregon Revised Statutes or in
               the Oregon Administrative Rules. Creating and maintaining the deduction code sets and
               reconciling the aggregate deductions and vendor payments using a publicly owned
               system must be an authorized use of public resources. In response to special
               circumstances, or an emergency condition, a voluntary payroll deduction code may be
               authorized by a mandate from the Governor or the Director of the Department of
               Administrative Services.


Method Used for Payment

       .103    When possible, voluntary deduction codes implemented in the Workday Payroll System
               will utilize Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) to transmit the deducted funds to the vendor
               or other recipient. Vendor requests for waiver of electronic payment methods must
               present compelling reasons to process payments using paper checks. This is not the
               responsibility of the agency.


Procedure to Establish a Deduction Code

       .104    The organization, entity or agency proposing or requesting a new deduction contacts the
               Workday Payroll System Division through a case in the Workday Payroll System to
               request that a new deduction code be created. The requestor must specify if the
               deduction is to be limited to specific agencies. The Workday Payroll System Division will
               evaluate the request, reach out to State Controller for their approval and verify the
               permissions. If the deduction is permitted, The Workday Payroll System Division will
               respond to the requestor and verify the date by which the code will be effective.

       .105    When notified that the deduction code request has been approved, the funds recipient
               must, in writing, provide the information necessary to implement Electronic Funds
               Transfer (EFT) of the deducted funds. The following information is needed:
                  a. Complete business name and address of the recipient of the funds.
                  b. The name and address of the recipient’s bank.
                  c. The American Banking Association (ABA) routing/transit number and the
                       account number for the destination of the funds.

       .106    The Workday Payroll System Division will create the deduction code and notify the
               requesting entity and the agencies when the code is ready for use.



Policy No: 45.10.00 | Effective:                                                             Page 2 of 3
Implementing Deductions from Employee’s Pay

       .107    The employee must supply the agencies with voluntary deduction authorization to
               record the employee’s permission to activate the deduction. Authorization must indicate
               the funds recipient, the monthly amount, the effective date of the deduction, length of
               time for which the deduction is authorized (either fixed term or permanent), and a clear
               statement of authorization from the employee.

       .108    Upon receipt of authorization, the agency may activate the deduction code in the
               Workday Payroll System. The agency must retain employee deduction authorizations in
               accordance with the state records retention schedule.




Policy No: 45.10.00 | Effective:                                                            Page 3 of 3
