                                                                                 Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                        10.65.00.PO

 Oregon Department of                                Policy                      Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                     July 29, 2003

 Chapter             Internal Control
                                                                                 .1 OF .1
 Part                Approval of Proposed Fiscal Systems

 Section                                                                         Approval

                                                                                 Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 291.015
                ORS 291.038
                ORS 293.595


        .101    The Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), State Controller's Division will review
                all proposed development, acquisitions, or modifications of fiscal systems. For purposes of this
                policy, fiscal systems are defined to include subsidiary systems that interface into statewide
                systems which are used to record transactions related to revenues, expenditures, assets and
                liabilities; to record or control non-capital or capital assets; or to record or produce vouchers,
                checks, purchase orders, or invoices. Statewide systems managed by the State Controller’s
                Division include the Statewide Financial Management Application (SFMA) and the Oregon State
                Payroll Application (OSPA).

        .102    Because of the cost to develop a fiscal system and the requirement for data processing support,
                the State Controller's Division, in conjunction with the DAS Information Resources Management
                Division (IRMD), will review all proposals to determine:

                a. The need for purchasing, modifying, or developing a new system or a system
                   that will interface to SFMA or OSPA.

                b. Whether or not the proposed system duplicates the functionality of an
                   existing statewide system.

                c.     The availability of data processing support.

                d. The advisability of using or modifying an available system.

                e. Uniformity with other state systems.

                f.     Adequacy of controls and audit trail.

                The decision to approve or disapprove the request will be made based on the above
                determinations. The State Controller’s Division will retain formal documentation of the decisions
                made and will provide a copy of such documentation to the Secretary of State Audits Division for
                their information.




                                                                                                        10 65 00.PO. 1
