                                                                                Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                       10.10.00.PR

 Oregon Department of                              Procedure                    Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                    July 1, 2001

 Chapter          Internal Control
                                                                                .1 OF .5
 Part             Management’s Responsibilities

 Section                                                                        Approval

                                                                                Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 291.015
                ORS 291.038
                ORS 293.590
                ORS 293.595


Requirement to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls

        .101    Each agency head is ultimately responsible for establishing, maintaining and improving the
                agency internal controls. The internal control of agencies must be adequate to provide
                reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that management’s goals and objectives are being
                accomplished effectively and efficiently; assets are safeguarded; and transactions are accurate,
                properly recorded and executed in accordance with management’s authorizations.

        .102    All agencies are required to implement and maintain internal controls. Throughout the year, the
                agency will need to document periodic reviews, tests, and analysis of internal controls to assure
                proper operation.      Agency management is responsible for the extent of efficiency and
                effectiveness of internal controls as well as any deficiencies therein.

        .103    Each agency head may designate one senior agency manager as the internal control officer. This
                person’s responsibility is for coordinating the overall agency-wide effort of annually (at a minimum)
                evaluating, improving and reporting on internal controls. The internal control officer provides
                assurance and documentation to the agency head that internal control review processes have
                been conducted. Each manager is responsible for review, evaluation and reporting for his/her
                particular part of internal control.

        .104    Any material inadequacy or material weakness in an agency’s internal control, including
                unresolved internal or external audit comments, should be identified. A plan and schedule for
                correcting any such inadequacy, including an estimated completion date, should be described in
                detail.


Components of Internal Control

        .105    According to the Committee on Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission’s (COSO)
                model, there are five components of internal control: control environment, risk assessment,
                control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. Effective internal controls
                promote accountability, facilitate achievement of agency goals and objectives, and ensure
                compliance with state and federal laws, rules, and regulations.




                                                                                                         10 10 00.PR.1
Control Environment

      .106 The control environment encompasses the following factors:

             a. Integrity and ethical values. Integrity and ethical behavior are the product of ethical and
                behavioral standards, how they are communicated, and how they are reinforced in practice.
                Managers and employees are to maintain and demonstrate support of internal controls at all
                times. This support includes management’s obligation to remove or reduce incentives and
                temptations that might prompt personnel to engage in dishonest, illegal, or unethical acts.
                Also part of management responsibility is communication of values and behavioral standards
                to personnel through policy statements and codes of conduct and by behavioral example.
                Management’s values should be corroborated by adequate supervision, training, and
                motivation of employees in the area of internal controls. To demonstrate support for good
                internal controls, management should emphasize the value of internal auditing and be
                responsive to information developed through internal and external audits.

             b. Commitment to competence. Commitment to competence includes management’s
                consideration of the competence levels for particular jobs and how those levels translate into
                requisite skills and knowledge. Managers are required to comply with established personnel
                policies and practices for hiring, training, evaluating, promoting, and compensating
                employees, and to provide employees the resources necessary to perform their duties. Hiring
                and staffing decisions should include pertinent verification of education and experience and,
                once on the job, the individual should be given the necessary formal and on-the-job training.

                  Counseling and performance appraisals are also important. Performance appraisals should
                  be based on an assessment of many factors, one of which should be the implementation and
                  maintenance of effective internal controls. Promotions driven by periodic performance
                  appraisals demonstrate commitment to the advancement of qualified personnel to higher
                  levels of responsibility.

             c.   Management’s philosophy and operating style. Management’s philosophy and operating style
                  encompass a broad range of characteristics.           Such characteristics may include
                  management’s attitudes and actions toward financial reporting (conservative or aggressive
                  selection from available alternative accounting principles, and conscientiousness and
                  conservatism with which accounting estimates are developed). Management’s attitude should
                  positively reinforce and personnel should support adherence to Generally Accepted
                  Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the implementation of information processing and
                  accounting functions.

                  Managers should remain cognizant of the purpose of internal control with respect to
                  accounting and reporting. The purpose of internal control is to help assure the assertions
                  made by management in the accounting records and reports are materially correct with
                  respect to existence, completeness (including proper period), rights and obligations, valuation,
                  and presentation.

                  In a government environment, evaluation of the cost of controls must be considered in light of
                  legal and public policy framework. The controls in place should produce the largest net
                  benefit, both quantitative and qualitative. Managers should periodically review for the
                  optimum level of controls and eliminate unnecessary controls.

             d. Organizational structure. An organizational structure provides the framework within which
                activities for achieving objectives are planned, executed, controlled, and monitored.
                Management should establish well designed organizational structures that incorporate the
                form and nature of the organizational units, including the data processing organization and
                related functions. For good internal control, management must require clear lines of authority
                and responsibility, appropriate reporting relationships, and appropriate separation of authority.
                The appropriateness of an organizational structure will depend, in part, on the size and nature
                of a unit’s activities.


                                                                                                      10 10 00.PR.2
             e. Assignment of authority and responsibility.          This factor includes how authority and
                responsibility for operating activities are assigned and how reporting relationships and
                authorization hierarchies are established. Management should establish policies relating to
                appropriate business practices, knowledge and experience of key personnel, and resources
                provided for carrying out duties. In addition, management should provide policies and direct
                communications so that all personnel understand the organization’s objectives, know how
                their individual actions interrelate and contribute to those objectives, and recognize how and
                for what they will be held accountable.

                  Proper segregation of responsibilities is a necessary condition to make control procedures
                  effective. Management should ensure adequate separation of authorization for the execution
                  of transactions, recording of transactions, custody of assets, and periodic reconciliation of
                  existing assets to recorded amounts.

             f.   Human resource policies and practices. Human resource policies and practices relate to
                  hiring, orientation, training, evaluating, counseling, promoting, compensating and remedial
                  actions. To demonstrate commitment to competent and trustworthy people, management
                  should establish and adhere to standards for hiring the most qualified individuals – with
                  emphasis on educational background, prior work experience, past accomplishments, and
                  evidence of integrity and ethical behavior. Management is also required to implement training
                  policies that communicate prospective roles and responsiblities. Training should be designed
                  to illustrate expected levels of performance and behavior.


Risk Assessment

      .107   Risk assessment is the identification, measurement, and management of risks relevant to the
             achievement of the organization’s objectives. Risks include external and internal events or
             circumstances that may occur and adversely affect operations. Once risks are identified,
             management should consider their significance, the likelihood of their occurrence, and how to
             manage them. Management may initiate plans, programs, or actions to address specific risks or it
             may decide to accept a risk because of cost or other considerations. Risks can arise or change
             due to circumstances such as the following:

                     Changes in operating environment. Changes in the regulatory or operating environment
                      can result in changes in the competitive pressures which may alter risks.

                     New personnel.      New personnel may have a different focus on or understanding of
                      internal control.

                     New or revamped information systems. Significant and rapid changes in information
                      systems can change the risk relating to internal controls.

                     Rapid growth. Significant and rapid expansion of operations can strain controls and
                      increase the risk of a breakdown in controls.

                     New technology. Incorporating new technologies into service delivery or information
                      systems may change the risk associated with internal control.

                     New activities or lines of service. Entering into business areas or transactions with which
                      the organization has little experience may introduce new risks associated with internal
                      control.

                     Organization restructure (centralizing, decentralizing).    Restructuring may be
                      accompanied by staff reductions and changes in supervision and segregation that may
                      change risks associated with internal control.

                     Accounting pronouncements. Adoption of new accounting principles or changing
                      accounting principles may affect risks in preparing financial statements.

                                                                                                     10 10 00.PR.3
       .108    Risks are potential costs or undesirable results from weaknesses. When reviewing internal
               controls, focus on the objective, for example, that all user charges are billed and recorded. The
               controls which serve to meet that objective should be identified.

       .109    When evaluating a system, the strength of individual controls should be compared. How well
               does a particular control prevent or detect and correct errors? What does it cost? Who performs
               the control? Does a particular control require other controls working with it to adequately prevent
               errors?

       .110    There may be more than one weakness causing a risk. For example, cash may be
               misappropriated because licenses and permits are not controlled through prenumbering and
               receipts are not validated on a cash register. These weaknesses together create a much larger
               risk than either one taken alone.


Control Activities

       .111    Management should develop control activities (policies and procedures) to ensure
               directives are carried out and that necessary steps to address risks are taken.

               Control activities should pertain to the following:

                        Timely and appropriate performance reviews: actual to budgeted and to prior periods,
                         financial to nonfinancial, function or activity performance.

                        Information processing general and application controls to ensure that transactions are
                         valid, properly authorized, and completely and accurately recorded.

                        Physical controls for safeguarding of assets, including:

                         a. Physical segregation and security of assets, protective devices and bonded or
                            independent custodians (e.g. banks, safe deposit boxes, lock boxes, independent
                            warehouses).

                         b. Authorized access to assets and records (such as through the use of computer
                            access codes, prenumbered forms, and required signatures on documents for the
                            removal or disposition of assets).

                         c.   Periodic counting and comparison of actual assets with amounts shown in accounting
                              records (e.g. physical counts and inspections of assets, reconciliations and user
                              review of computer-generated reports).

                        Segregation of duties for authorization, recordkeeping, and custody of the related assets
                         to reduce the opportunities for any individual to be in the position to both perpetrate and
                         conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of duties.

                        Documentation: Internal control systems, all transactions and other significant events are
                         to be clearly documented, and the documentation is to be readily available for
                         examination at each agency.

                         a. Documentation of internal control systems is valuable to managers in controlling their
                            operations and may also be useful to auditors or others involved in analyzing and
                            reviewing operations.

                         b. Written evidence of (1) the internal control objectives and techniques and
                            accountability systems, and (2) all pertinent aspects of transactions and other
                            significant events is essential. For each agency, two written documents are
                            recommended: a narrative on the review of internal control and an analysis of risk
                            factors.

                                                                                                        10 10 00.PR.4
                     c.   Documentation of internal control systems should appear in management directives,
                          administrative policy, and accounting procedure manuals.       Documentation of
                          transactions and other significant events should be complete and accurate and
                          should allow tracing the transaction or event from before it occurs, while it is in
                          process, through its completion.

                     d. Many documentation tools are available such as checklists, flow charts, narratives,
                        and software packages. Supporting documentation for conclusions should be
                        gathered and kept on file at least five years.


Information and Communication

      .112   The information system, which includes the accounting system, should provide identification,
             capture, and exchange of information in a timely manner.

      .113   Communication should provide an understanding of individual roles and responsibilities pertaining
             to internal control; it should be written (policy and procedure manuals, financial reporting manuals,
             and memoranda), or may be oral and by example (through the actions of management).


Accounting System

      .114   The accounting system should consist of the methods and records established to record, process,
             summarize, and report entity transactions (as well as events and conditions) to maintain
             accountability for the related assets, liabilities, and equity. These methods and records are to:

                    Identify and record all valid transactions.
                    Describe transactions in a timely manner and in sufficient detail to allow proper
                     classification.
                    Measure and record the proper monetary value of transactions.
                    Determine and ensure recording of transactions and events in the proper time period.
                    Present transactions and events and related disclosures properly.
                    Maintain a traceable audit trail.

      .115   The Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), State Controller’s Division (SCD) will
             review all proposed acquisitions, development, or modifications of accounting systems. See
             OAM 10 65 00, Approval of Proposed Fiscal Systems.

Monitoring

      .116   Establishing and maintaining internal controls is a responsibility of management. Monitoring is the
             process that assesses the quality of internal control performance over time, by assessing design
             and operation on a timely basis and taking necessary corrective actions. The monitoring process
             should include ongoing activities built into regular management and supervisory activities.

      .117   Agencies, at their option, should consider implementing a review process and preparing a formal
             report periodically on the adequacy of the agency’s internal control. The report should certify the
             adequacy of the internal control and identify weaknesses and planned corrective actions. Agency
             management is responsible for follow through and appropriate actions necessary to correct
             identified weaknesses and risks.




                                                                                                      10 10 00.PR.5
