                                                                                                    Statewide Policy



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                                Number:          30.30.00.PO
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                       Effective date: April 2, 2007
Chapter:       Federal Compliance
Part:          Cash Management
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                    Original signature on file in SCD


Authority         ORS 291.003
                  ORS 291.015
                  31 CFR Part 205

Cash Management Improvement Act

        .101      The State and each of its agencies, boards, and commissions will comply with the provisions of
                  the Cash Management Improvement Act (CMIA) of 1990, as amended, to ensure that the State
                  minimizes payment of interest on federal funds. The CMIA was enacted to ensure efficiency,
                  effectiveness, and equity in the exchange of funds between the states and the federal government
                  related to federal assistance programs. The general provisions of the CMIA are as follows:

                  a. Federal agencies must make timely fund transfers and grant awards to state
                     agencies.
                  b. State agencies must minimize the time between the deposit of federal funds in state
                     agency accounts and the disbursement of funds for program purposes.
                  c.   With minor exceptions, the State is entitled to interest from the federal government
                       from the time the State’s disbursement instruments are redeemed until federal funds
                       are deposited in state agency accounts.
                  d. The federal government is entitled to interest from the State from the time federal
                     funds are deposited in state agency accounts until the State disbursement
                     instruments are redeemed.

Treasury-State Agreement (TSA)

        .102      The State will participate in the CMIA, as signified by the preparation of a Treasury-State
                  Agreement (TSA). This agreement sets forth the terms and conditions for implementing the CMIA.
                  The agreement shall be signed by the appropriate State official.

        .103      Federal assistance programs operated by the State will be included in the TSA when they meet
                  the criteria for a Major Federal Assistance program as defined in the CMIA.

        .104      The criteria for defining Major Federal Assistance programs is based on the expenditures
                  reported in the latest available Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards (SEFA).

Annual CMIA Report

        .105      Each year, the State’s CMIA Annual Report must be submitted to the U.S. Treasury by December
                  31. This report provides an accounting for the CMIA interest liabilities. The liabilities can be owed
                  either by the State or by the federal government.

                                                                                                          30 30 00.PO.1
