                                                                                 Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                        45.25.00.PO

 Oregon Department of                               Policy                       Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                     March 4, 2003

 Chapter             Payroll
                                                                                 .1 OF .2
 Part                Salary Advances

 Section                                                                         Approval

                                                                                 Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 292.033
                ORS 292.036
                ORS 293.330
                Various Collective Bargaining Agreements

        .101    Salary advances in Oregon state government are provided to state employees under ORS
                292.033 and various collective bargaining agreements as a means to provide employees with
                access to earned compensation in emergency situations. Providing salary advances is
                administratively costly and will be allowed only in financial emergency situations. If provisions of
                this policy conflict with provisions of a state approved collective bargaining agreement, the
                bargaining agreement will prevail.

        .102    An emergency situation is defined as an unusual, unforeseen event or unavoidable condition that
                requires immediate financial resources by the employee. Emergencies include, but are not
                limited to the following circumstances:

                a. Death in family necessitating unforeseen expenditures or travel.
                b. Major car repair such as engine, transmission, or catastrophic failure (not to be confused with
                   minor repairs, maintenance, tires, etc.).
                c.     Theft of cash representing major portion of most recent pay.
                d. Automobile accident leading to loss of vehicle use.
                e. Accident or sickness (self or family) requiring immediate substantial cash outlays.
                f.     Destruction or major damage to home requiring immediate substantial cash outlays.
                g. New employee lack of funds (maximum – 1 draw).
                h. Unreimbursed moving expenses due to transfer or promotion. This does not include personal
                   moving situations such as purchasing a home or renting a different residence.

        .103    Management’s responsibility in approving pay advances should include appropriate
                documentation and a reasonable assessment of the request for conformance with emergency
                situations, labor agreements, and with Oregon law.

        .104    Unless otherwise determined by the agency, it is not the responsibility of agency payroll officers
                to approve, disapprove, or enforce good management practices and the application of labor
                agreements with respect to pay advances. Payroll officers merely process the approved
                transaction.




                                                                                                         45.25.00.PO.1
.105   Payroll advances are not to be authorized or issued as short-term loans of state funds for
       frivolous purposes. It is management's responsibility to appropriately safeguard state assets
       balanced against the need for making prudent use of payroll cash advances to state employees
       for legitimate emergency situations authorized by law or labor agreement.

.106   Payroll advances are prohibited as a method of distributing earned compensation in advance of
       holidays, vacations, or other notable events.




                                                                                         45.25.00.PO.2
