                                                                                            Statewide Procedure



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                             Number:         05.30.00.PR
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                    Effective date: February 12, 2008
Chapter:       Relational Statewide Accounting and Reporting System (R*STARS)
Part:          General Ledger and Object Structure
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                 Signature on file at SCD



Recording Entries in R*STARS

        .101      The D31 comptroller General Ledger (GL) account is the level at which general ledger entries to
                  the Relational Statewide Accounting and Reporting System (R*STARS) are posted. These
                  accounts include the assets, liabilities, equities and changes in equities for all agencies on
                  R*STARS. The comptroller GL account rolls up to a GAAP account class (D14). The GAAP
                  account class is the level used by Statewide Accounting and Reporting Services (SARS) to
                  prepare the State’s financial statements for the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR).
                  A complete listing of the general ledger accounts, with definitions, is at OAM 60.10.00.

        .102      The D10 comptroller object is the level at which nominal account entries – revenues, transfers
                  and expenditures/expenses – are posted to R*STARS. These comptroller objects roll up to the
                  GAAP source/object (D08), which is the level used for preparation of the operating statements in
                  the CAFR. A complete listing of the comptroller objects and GAAP source/objects is at OAM
                  60.20.00.

        .103      All accounting information is recorded into R*STARS by way of transaction codes. The
                  transaction code designates which general ledger account and comptroller object will be posted.
                  Transaction codes are defined in the Transaction Code Profiles in R*STARS (28A and 28B
                  screens).

        .104      For guidance in transaction code selection, refer to OAM 05.35.00.PO and OAM 05.35.00.PR,
                  R*STARS, Transaction Code Structure, and OAM Resources. Statewide Financial Management
                  Services (SFMS) maintains the detailed T-Codes listings as a resource on the SFMS website.




                                                                                                         05 30 00.PR.1
