                           OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
                                                     NUMBER                      SUPERSEDES

                                                     15.95.00                    15.95.00.PO
                                                                                 15.95.00.PR
 STATEWIDE POLICY                                                                dated 07/01/2001

                                                     EFFECTIVE DATE              PAGE NUMBER

                                                     MM/DD/YYYY                  Pages 1 of 4
 Division                                            REFERENCE/AUTHORITY
 Chief Financial Office                              ORS 291.040
                                                     ORS 293.590
 Policy Owner                                        ORS 293.600
 Statewide Accounting and Reporting                  GASB Statement No. 34
 Services

 SUBJECT                                             APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Accounting and Financial Reporting-Year-end
 Closing and Statewide Reporting                     George Naughton, Chief Financial Officer
                                                     Signature on file


PURPOSE
This policy establishes standards and requirements for fiscal year-end closing and financial reporting.
Statewide Accounting and Reporting Services (SARS) is responsible for overseeing the statewide year-
end closing process. SARS prepares a statewide financial report for the State in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This statewide financial report is published in the
form of a Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR). Agencies need to provide requested
information for preparation of the CAFR, in the format and on the dates specified by SARS, to enable
SARS to comply with the legal requirement for issuance of the CAFR within 180 days of the close of the
fiscal year. The Secretary of State Audits Division is responsible for auditing the State’s financial
statements.

APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all state agencies included in the State’s annual financial statements, except for
those agencies specifically exempted by OAM 01.05.00.

FORMS/EXHIBITS/INSTRUCTIONS
None.

DEFINITIONS
Click here for other definitions.

EXCLUSIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS
None.

POLICY:
101. Agency management is responsible to ensure fiscal year-end closing procedures will result in
     reporting agency financial information in conformity with generally accepted accounting
     principles. This includes adherence to accounting and reporting policies and procedures
     contained in the Oregon Accounting Manual. Adjustments made during the year-end closing
     process will be supported by documentation and retained in accordance with the agency’s
     records retention schedule.
Policy No: 15.95.00 | Effective:                                                                    Page 1 of 4
102.    Agency management is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of their agency
        accounting records and the information provided for disclosure purposes. CAFR disclosure
        forms and other requested information are critical to the preparation of the notes to the State’s
        financial statements. Each agency should complete the applicable disclosure forms and submit
        them to SARS by the scheduled due date. A Certificate of Accuracy and Completeness, signed
        by the agency’s chief financial officer, should accompany the disclosure forms.

103.    Agencies that do not maintain their accounting records in R*STARS shall provide copies of their
        financial statements, or equivalent data sufficient to prepare financial statements, to SARS for
        the statewide compilation process.

104.    Each agency will designate one person to be primarily responsible for the agency’s fiscal year-
        end closing and financial reporting. SARS maintains a statewide list of these CAFR contacts on
        the SARS website to facilitate communication between agencies.

105.    SARS will designate an analyst to provide assistance to the agency CAFR accountant with
        accounting and reporting issues.


PROCEDURES:

Statewide Financial Reporting
106. Data from R*STARS, together with data from agencies not on R*STARS, is used to compile the
      statewide financial statements. Account balances as of the close of Month 13, modified by any
      required audit adjustments, are reported in the CAFR. During the compilation of the financial
      statements, SARS ensures that the State’s financial position and results of operations are fairly
      presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). SARS will
      combine the data in governmental funds, internal service funds, and the government-wide
      reporting fund in order to prepare the governmental activities column of the government-wide
      financial statements. Data in enterprise funds will be used to prepare the business-type
      activities column of the government-wide financial statements.

107.    The CAFR will include an audit opinion as to whether the State’s financial position and results of
        operations are fairly presented in accordance with GAAP. As the constitutional auditor of public
        accounts, the Secretary of State Audits Division conducts the statewide audit. The statewide
        audit is required to be a Single Audit in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984, as
        amended, because the State receives federal funds. The Audits Division selects certain
        accounts and federal programs to audit at specific agencies as part of the Single Audit.

108.    In order to comply with provisions of the Single Audit Act, SARS prepares a federal reporting
        package as required by OMB Circular A-133 (refer to OAM 30.10.00 PO for more information).
        The reporting package is required to include a Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
        (SEFA). Each agency should complete the year-end disclosure form on federal revenues and
        expenditures to determine if SEFA reporting is applicable to their agency. Agencies that receive
        federal funds, directly or indirectly, are required to provide information for the statewide SEFA. If
        applicable, agencies will submit pertinent information to SARS by the due date for inclusion in
        the SEFA.




Policy No: 15.95.00 | Effective:                                                                  Page 2 of 4
Year-end Closing Process
109. The quality of the CAFR depends on the accuracy and completeness of year-end closing
      activities. Year-end financial statement adjustments and accruals are recorded in R*STARS in
      month 13, the last period of each fiscal year. Normally, cash transactions that occur during the
      year are posted prior to the close of month 12 (June). Agencies should maintain up-to-date
      accounting records during the year and use month 13 for adjustments needed for reporting in
      conformance with GAAP at year-end. Agencies are responsible for selecting appropriate
      transaction codes to record transactions in R*STARS. The agency’s assigned SARS and SFMS
      analysts are available to provide guidance when needed. Supporting documentation should be
      attached to month 13 transactions in the same manner as other accounting entries

110.    Month 13 transactions must be recorded with an effective date of 06/31/YY (YY is the fiscal
        year), regardless of the document date. When recording entries in the second year of a
        biennium, care should be taken to ensure the transaction is posted to the proper appropriation
        year. After the system date changes (July 1), the appropriation year (AY) defaults to the new
        AY, not the AY that should be used in month 13

111.    For most accruals recorded in month 13, reversing entries are generated automatically in
        R*STARS in July of the new fiscal year. This helps to ensure revenues and expenditures are not
        duplicated. When the actual payment is made or the income is received, it will be offset by the
        reversal. SARS recommends posting transaction codes that auto-reverse in month 13, rather
        than month 12, since it is cleaner for the audit process if all year-end accruals are recorded in
        month 13.

112.    To facilitate year-end closing, agencies are encouraged to use accounting estimates if actual
        accrual amounts are not available in a timely manner. Using estimates is an acceptable
        accounting practice, provided the basis on which the estimates are made is fundamentally
        sound, sufficiently documented, can be audited, and conforms with generally accepted
        accounting principles.

113.    During the year-end closing process, agencies are responsible for ensuring transactions
        between agencies balance, as appropriate. This will ensure interfund transactions, as disclosed
        in the notes to the financial statements, balance on a statewide basis. For example, this would
        include transfers, loans between agencies, or year-end accruals of interagency transactions. To
        facilitate communication between agencies, SARS maintains a statewide list of agency
        contacts. If the agency’s CAFR contact changes, SARS should be notified to update the list.

114.    SARS will provide a schedule of year-end closing activities to agencies which will reflect the
        time frame necessary to prepare audited statewide financial statements by the statutorily
        required due date. Other guidance will be provided to agencies through the Agency Guide to
        Year Closing, maintained by SARS.

Post-Closing Adjustments
115. On occasion, it may be necessary to post adjustments to the statewide financial statements that
      were not discovered until after the close of month 13. These adjustments may be identified by
      the agency, by SARS, or proposed as audit adjustments by the Audits Division. Agencies
      should coordinate post-closing adjustments with SARS and the Audits Division, if applicable.
      Post-closing adjustments must be significant in amount. When adjustments are made to the
      CAFR balances, agencies should follow-up by recording a post-closing entry in the subsequent
      fiscal year. These are not prior period adjustments. They are adjustments to bring R*STARS
      balances in agreement with balances reported in the CAFR. Agencies should strive to post all
      necessary year-end adjustments during month 13 to alleviate the need for post-closing
      adjustments.

Policy No: 15.95.00 | Effective:                                                               Page 3 of 4
Subsequent Open Accounting Months
116. The time necessary to complete the year-end closing will require subsequent fiscal periods (i.e.
     July and August) to remain open on a statewide basis until year-end accounting adjustments
     are recorded and the ending fiscal year is closed. R*STARS agencies may close completed
     fiscal periods on an agency basis, while the statewide closing of a fiscal period may occur at a
     later date.

Requirements for Agency Financial Statements
117. Agencies are not required to submit annual financial statements to SARS unless specifically
      required by statute or by the federal government, as a condition to receive funds from an entity
      external to the State, or by the direction of SARS.

118.    For those agencies that issue annual audited financial statements, the information in the agency
        issued financial statements must agree with CAFR reported balances, if that agency’s
        information is presented discretely in the CAFR. In this case, agencies are required to submit
        one copy of their financial statements to SARS for inclusion in and agreement with the CAFR.

119.    Agencies that do not maintain their accounting records in R*STARS will provide copies of their
        financial statements, or equivalent data sufficient to prepare financial statements, to SARS for
        the statewide compilation process.




Policy No: 15.95.00 | Effective:                                                               Page 4 of 4
