                                                                                                 Statewide Policy



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                              Number:         10.35.00.PO
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                     Effective date: April 17, 2008
Chapter:       Internal Control
Part:          Credit Card Acceptance for Payment
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                  Signature on file at SCD


Authority         ORS 291.015
                  ORS 291.026
                  ORS 293.265
                  ORS 293.590


Authorization

        .101      State agencies must make application to and be preapproved by the Office of the State Treasurer
                  (OST) to accept credit cards in payment of products, services and other fees. In addition, third
                  party service organizations that provide storage, processing, or transmission services and/or
                  applications to state agencies associated with credit card transactions must be prequalified by
                  OST.


Agency Responsibilities

        .102      State agencies authorized by OST to accept credit card payments must:

                  a. Establish a system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that all credit card
                     transactions are properly authorized, timely settled, and accurately and completely recorded.
                     In addition, controls and safeguards must be established and maintained to reduce the risk of
                     unauthorized access and to monitor for errors, both unintentional and intentional errors,
                     including fraud.

                  b. Ensure that all employees responsible for accepting and processing credit card payments
                     receive appropriate training and are familiar with and have access to US Bank Merchant
                     Terms of Services (MTOS) and Discover Business Services Merchant Operating Regulations
                     (MOR). Training is available through OST.

                  c.   Ensure that personnel involved in accepting and processing credit card payments do not use,
                       disclose, or disseminate cardholder information except for the purposes of processing the
                       associated financial transactions.

                  d. Comply with MTOS/MOR; all applicable OST requirements; payment card industry security
                     standards; statewide IT security policies and initiatives issued by the Department of
                     Administrative Services, Enterprise Information Strategy and Policy Division (DAS-EISPD);
                     and all federal and state laws pertaining to safeguarding personal information and notifying
                     consumers in the event of a security breach, including the Oregon Identity Theft Prevention
                     Act (Oregon Laws 2007, Chapter 759).



                                                                                                          10 35 00.PO.1
