                                                                                Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                       45.15.00.PR

 Oregon Department of                              Procedure                    Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                    August 15, 2001

 Chapter          Payroll
                                                                                .1 OF .1
 Part             Payroll Accounts Reimbursement

 Section                                                                        Approval

                                                                                Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 291.405
                ORS 291.407
                ORS 292.026
                ORS 292.036

        .101    Oregon State Payroll Services (OSPS) prepares vendor and payroll checks and reports. The
                Oregon State Payroll Application (OSPA) transmits reports and provides the Statewide
                Financial Management Application (SFMA) reimbursement amounts.

        .102    SFMA reimbursement amounts (accounts receivable) are reconciled by Statewide Financial
                Management Services (SFMS) Operations unit to the OSPA information by payroll run, taking
                into consideration timing options for payroll run 2. For agencies that need detailed information
                from their subsidiary system, OSPS provides a file of the payroll data to accommodate this need.
                It is the responsibility of the agency to reconcile the original total dollars from OSPA to the new
                SFMA interface file. SFMS Operations will also verify totals for these agencies to assure the
                SFMA accounts receivable agency totals equal the agency total payroll accounts payables.

        .103    By pay day, all payroll information will need to be interfaced to SFMA so that SFMA can
                automatically reimburse the OSPS Joint Payroll Account. When agency funds are available
                (which should be no later than pay day), SFMA automatically reimburses the OSPS Joint Payroll
                Account for the appropriate amount based on the OSPA information.

        .104    After SFMA receives the payroll information, it generates the appropriate Mass Transit
                contributions, which automatically reimburse the Mass Transit Account. For any agencies not on
                SFMA, OSPA generates the Mass Transit amount and creates a check, which is deposited into
                the Mass Transit account.

        .105    If an agency’s cash position does not permit prompt reimbursement of payroll and Mass Transit, a
                request for temporary delay should be sent to the State Controller.

        .106    The request, signed by the agency head, should address the reasons for the delay, the expected
                payment date, the likelihood of future deficiencies, and the corrective action planned.

        .107    It is not appropriate for an agency to postpone the liquidation of payroll payables without following
                the procedures identified in .105 and .106 above.

        .108    SFMS Operations monitors receivable balances and reports to OSPS any outstanding
                reimbursements over 45 days old. OSPS reports outstanding reimbursements over 45 days old,
                by pay date and amount, to the State Controller and the Budget and Management Division
                administrator.

        .109    The State Controller pursues delinquent accounts.


                                                                                                         45.15.00.PR.1
