                                                                                                    Statewide Policy



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                                Number:          45.06.00
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                       Effective date: March 1, 2007
Chapter:       Payroll
Part:          Sick Leave Balances at Retirement
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                    Original signature on file in SCD



Authority         ORS 238.350
                  OAR 459-017-0060


Sick Leave Balance Expiration

        .101      When a state employee retires, the employing agency shall report all accumulated unused sick
                  leave to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). Thereafter, the unused sick leave is
                  no longer available to a retiree who is reemployed or rehired, in any appointment or position, by
                  the State.

        .102      This provision applies to all unused sick leave hours that are reported to PERS. Under no
                  circumstances can reported hours be restored to a retiree, regardless of the specific retirement
                  option elected by the individual (including disability retirement) or the type of appointment or
                  position filled upon reemployment or rehire.

        .103      At retirement, an employee’s sick leave balances shall be:
                      a. Entered into the Oregon State Payroll Application (OSPA) clearing account;
                      b. Documented as “retired” in the comment field; and
                      c.   Flagged to be adjusted to zero at 60 days following the date of retirement.


Recoupment of Benefit Overpayment

        .104      Any agency that discovers it has restored sick leave hours to a retiree must take the following
                  steps:
                      a. Immediately remove any remaining sick leave hours restored to the employee’s
                         account following reemployment or rehire;
                      b. Change the employee’s status to leave without pay for absences where the
                         employee applied restored sick leave hours to cover the absence; and
                      c.   Notify the employee of any amount of benefits to be repaid and adhere to
                           applicable policy or the relevant collective bargaining agreement to recoup such
                           amounts.




                                                                                                         45.06.00.PO .1
