                                                                                              Statewide Procedure



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                               Number:         45.10.00.PR
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                      Effective date: February 27, 2008
Chapter:       Payroll
Part:          Voluntary Deductions
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                   Signature on file at SCD



Procedure to Establish a Deduction Code

        .101      The organization, entity or agency proposing or requesting a new deduction contacts Oregon
                  Statewide Payroll Services (OSPS) to request that a new deduction code be assigned. The
                  requestor must specify if the deduction is to be limited to specific agencies. OSPS will evaluate
                  the request and verify the permissions. If the deduction is permitted, OSPS will respond to the
                  requestor and verify the date by which the code will be effective.

        .102      When notified that the deduction code request has been approved, the funds recipient must, in
                  writing, provide the information necessary to implement Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) of the
                  deducted funds. The following information is needed:

                      a. Complete business name and address of the recipient of the funds.
                      b. The name and address of the recipient’s bank.
                      c.   The American Banking Association (ABA) routing/transit number and the account number
                           for the destination of the funds.

        .103      OSPS will create the deduction code and notify the requesting entity and the agencies when the
                  code is ready for use.

        .104      The code and description will be added to the OSPS Reference Manual appendix of valid
                  deduction codes.


Implementing Deductions from Employee’s Pay

        .105      The funds recipient will supply the agencies with deduction authorization forms to record the
                  employee’s permission to activate the deduction. Authorization forms must indicate the funds
                  recipient, the monthly amount, the effective date of the deduction, length of time for which the
                  deduction is authorized (either fixed term or permanent), a clear statement of authorization, and a
                  place for the employee’s full name, signature and the date the form was signed.

        .106      Upon receipt of a signed authorization, the agency may activate the deduction code in OSPA.
                  The agency must retain employee deduction authorizations in accordance with the state records
                  retention schedule.




                                                                                                           45.10.00.PR.1
