                                                                                                                                    Print Form

                                                                                         Corporate Travel Card Application
Employee Applicant Information
Please print or type.

First Name:                                          Middle Initial:                Last Name:

SSN:                                                 D.O.B:                         Estimated monthly travel expenses: $

Billing Address: HOME ADDRESS MUST BE USED

Street:

City:                                                State:                                           Zip Code:

Work Phone:                                          Home Phone:                                      Employee #:    OR

Work location (Branch name/addr):

Company Information
This section is to be completed by the authorized Agency Travel Card Coordinator.

Agency Name:

Agency Address - Street:

City:                                                State:                                           Zip Code:

US Bank assigned - Agent #:                          Company #:                         Division #:                 Department #:

Reporting/FirstTrac SM


Agency Travel Card Coordinator Signature:
Employee Understanding / Signature
Employee Applicant requests the issuance of a US Bank Visa® Corporate Card. US Bank may obtain credit information
concerning the employee for the sole purpose of issuance, renewal and replacement of the U.S. Bank Corporate Card. The
employee agrees to be bound by the US Bank Corporate Cardholder Agreement that comes with the card in the mail, as
amended by US Bank from time to time, for all charges incurred by the use of the card and the related account. Creditor is
US Bank National Association ND.
Employee Applicant understands that this card is to be used for business travel only and that the employee is totally
responsible and liable for all expenses charged to the account. The employee understands and acknowledges that full
payment is due to US Bank upon receipt of the statement. The employee further understands that failure to pay US Bank for
all undisputed charges will result in permanent cancellation of the card.

Employee Signature / Date:


Authorizing Manager Signature / Date:

If approved, your US Bank Visa Corporate Card will be mailed to your home address within 7 - 10 business days following the receipt of
your application.
Unless otherwise instructed, please return this application and the State of Oregon Corporate Travel Card Agreement form to your
manager for approval. After approving the request, management submits both forms to the Agency Travel Card Coordinator for
processing.
revised 7/01/2010                                                                                                                          75.40.04 FO
