                                                                                          Statewide Policy



 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
 Subject:        Accounting and Financial Reporting                  Number:      15.60.10
                                                                     Effective date: September 16,
 Division:       Chief Financial Office
                                                                     2017
 Chapter:        Accounting and Financial Reporting
 Part:           Capital Assets
 Section:        Classification and Capitalization

 Approved:       George Naughton, Chief Financial Officer            Signature on file



PURPOSE:               This policy provides guidance on accounting and financial reporting for capital
                       assets.

AUTHORITY:             ORS 293.590
                       GASB Statement No. 34
                       GASB Statement No. 42
                       GASB Statement No. 51
                       GASB Statement No. 72
                       GASB Comprehensive Implementation Guide 2016-1, Q. 4.71

APPLICABILITY:         This policy applies to all state agencies included in the state’s annual financial
                       statements, except those agencies specifically exempted by OAM 01.05.00.

DEFINITIONS:           Capital Assets: Tangible or intangible property used in agency operations
                       having an initial estimated useful life of more than one year and an initial cost
                       (including ancillary charges) of $5,000 or more. This definition does not include
                       assets held primarily for resale; agencies account for these assets as inventory.

                       Acquisition Value: A market based entry price, representing the price that
                       would be paid to acquire an asset with equivalent service potential in an orderly
                       market transaction at the acquisition date, or the amount at which a liability could
                       be liquidated with the counterparty at the acquisition date.

                       Click here for other definitions.

POLICY:

101.     Agency management must ensure the proper accounting and reporting of capital assets and
         establish a system of internal controls that reduces the risk of theft or other loss. Agencies
         should refer to OAM 15.60.40, Intangible Assets for specific guidance on accounting for
         intangible capital assets.

102.     Record capital asset additions in the appropriate capital asset general ledger (GL) accounts.
         Assets that cost less than $5,000 must be expensed according to OAM 15.55.00, Non-Capital
         Assets.


OAM 15.60.10                                                                                         1 of 13
103.   If an agency uses estimated historical cost to capitalize an asset, ensure the estimate is
       reasonable and supported by documentation that adequately describes the methodology and
       assumptions used to arrive at the estimate. Once calculated, reduce the estimated historical
       cost by an appropriate amount of accumulated depreciation or amortization.

104.   Depreciate or amortize capital assets with limited lives on a straight-line basis according to
       OAM 15.60.20, Depreciation and Amortization. Do not depreciate or amortize capital assets
       with indefinite lives.

105.   Reconcile capital outlay expenditures and property disposition records to the subsidiary
       property ledgers; reconcile the subsidiary property ledgers to the capital asset GL control
       accounts. Perform these reconciliations at least quarterly.

106.   Conduct an annual physical inventory of capital assets.

107.   When an agency sells or retires a capital asset, remove the asset and accumulated
       depreciation from the GL control accounts and the subsidiary property ledger, and recognize
       any gain or loss arising from the disposition. When disposing of surplus capital assets, contact
       the Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Enterprise Goods and Services Division,
       Surplus Property unit for instructions.

108.   In addition to this policy, Statewide IT Policy 107-004-010, Information Technology Asset
       Inventory and Management, applies to all IT assets.

PROCEDURES:

Classification

109.   The Statewide Accounting and Reporting Services (SARS) combines and reports the capital
       asset general ledger accounts in the state’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
       (CAFR) under the following classifications:

          Land (not depreciated or amortized; includes land use rights with indefinite lives)
          Construction in Progress (not depreciated)
          Works of Art and Other Nondepreciable Assets (not depreciated/amortized)
          Buildings, Property, and Equipment (includes amortizable intangible assets)
          Infrastructure
          Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization
          Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt

       The GL accounts included within each of these reporting categories appear on the D31 profile in
       R*STARS, as defined below.

110.   Land: Assets capitalized as part of this classification are not subject to depreciation or
       amortization. Record land in the following GL accounts.

          Land – Record the carrying value of land owned by the agency in this GL account. When an
           agency purchases land, the capitalized cost includes the purchase price and any costs
           incurred to place the land in condition for its intended use, such as legal fees, title fees,
           surveying costs, appraisal and negotiation charges, site preparation and excavation costs
           (clearing, filling, and leveling) and similar costs. If an agency purchases land for a building
           site, add the demolition costs to remove existing buildings to the cost of the land. If an


OAM 15.60.10                                                                                        2 of 13
           agency acquires land by donation, the amount capitalized represents the estimated
           acquisition value at the time of donation, plus ancillary charges, if any. Account for land
           purchased for resale as inventory, not as a capital asset. Do not depreciate land.

           Note: Capitalize only those acquisition costs directly identifiable with a specific asset. For
                 example, do not capitalize the cost of a site assessment or feasibility study
                 undertaken to determine the best location for constructing a new building. Costs
                 incurred during this early stage are not identifiable to a specific property. Capitalize
                 such costs only if incurred after acquisition of the related asset becomes probable
                 (i.e., likely to occur).

          Land Use Rights (not amortized) – The cost of land use rights obtained by contract or other
           legal right that the agency must account for separately because the agency did not acquire
           the rights as part of the purchase or donation of the underlying land (see OAM 15.60.40,
           Intangible Assets). Land use rights recorded in this GL account have indefinite lives, for
           example, a permanent easement.

111.   Construction in Progress: Use this GL account to record the costs of unfinished construction or
       capital improvement projects (i.e. labor, materials and overhead). When a project is complete
       (i.e., the asset is ready for its intended use), reclassify the capitalized costs from Construction in
       Progress to the appropriate capital asset GL account (e.g., Buildings and Building
       Improvements). Do not depreciate Construction in Progress. Do not begin depreciating a capital
       asset until the agency places the asset in service.

112.   Works of Art and Other Nondepreciable Assets (not depreciated/amortized): Do not depreciate
       or amortize assets capitalized as part of this classification. Record these assets in the following
       GL Accounts.

          Works of Art and Historical Treasures (not depreciated) – Includes works of art and historical
           artifacts, held as individual items or in a collection, that are considered inexhaustible; i.e.,
           their economic benefit or service potential is used up so slowly that their estimated useful
           lives are extraordinarily long. Examples include statues, paintings, sculptures, and historical
           documents or artifacts.

           Note: For items considered exhaustible, or depreciable, see paragraph 113 below.

           Normally, agencies report collections of works of art and historical treasures in the financial
           statements. However, agencies are not required to capitalize collections if they meet all of
           the following criteria:

           a. The collection is held for reasons other than financial gain (i.e., public exhibition,
              education, or research as a public service, rather than financial gain).

           b. The collection is protected, kept unencumbered, cared for, and preserved.

           c. The collection is subject to a policy that requires the agency to use the proceeds from
              sales of collection items to acquire other items for collections.

          Other Nondepreciable Assets (not depreciated/amortized) – Includes the cost of intangible
           assets (other than land use rights) with indefinite lives, such as a trademark.

113.   Buildings, Property and Equipment: Depreciate or amortize assets capitalized as part of this
       classification. Record these assets in the following GL accounts.



OAM 15.60.10                                                                                           3 of 13
          Works of Art and Historical Treasures (depreciable) – Includes works of art or historical
           treasures, held as individual items or in a collection, that are exhaustible, such as exhibits
           whose useful lives are diminished by display, educational, or research purposes.

           Note: Agencies record artwork acquired as the result of the “one percent for arts” provision
                 contained in ORS 276.080 in GL account, Buildings and Building Improvements.

          Equipment and Machinery – Tangible property of a permanent nature (other than land,
           buildings, and improvements to land or buildings) used in agency operations. Examples
           include machinery, tools, and equipment.

           Note: Do not capitalize data processing hardware in this account. See below.

          Motor Vehicles – Includes cars, vans, trucks or other motorized vehicles used in agency
           operations.

          Data Processing Software – Computer and Web site software programs purchased,
           internally generated, or acquired through a licensing agreement. See OAM 15.60.40.

          Data Processing Hardware – Computers and peripheral equipment, such as modems and
           servers.

          Buildings and Building Improvements – Use this GL account to record the cost of permanent
           structures (and improvements to structures) used to house people or property. Also, include
           the cost of fixtures attached to and forming a permanent part of a building. When
           constructing a new building on land owned by the agency, include the cost of demolishing
           existing buildings in the cost of the new building. Record the value of land associated with
           buildings separately in the GL account, Land. Outbuildings related to airports, buildings
           associated with roadways, or buildings that are considered historical treasures, normally, are
           not recorded in this account.

          Land Improvements – Includes the costs of permanent improvements, other than buildings,
           that add value to land. Examples include fences, gates, retaining walls, pedestrian bridges,
           sidewalks, paved paths, parking lots, lighting, irrigation systems, septic systems, swimming
           pools, fountains, signage, kiosks, and landscaping.

          Leasehold Improvements – The cost of permanent additions or improvements made to a
           leased asset that reverts to the owner of the property upon termination of the lease.

          Capital Leased Property – Property acquired through a lease that meets the criteria for
           capitalization. See OAM 15.60.30, Capital Leases.

          Land Use Rights (amortizable) – The cost of land use rights obtained by contract or other
           legal right that the agency must account for separately because the agency did not acquire
           the rights as part of the purchase or donation of the underlying land (see OAM 15.60.40,
           Intangible Assets). Limit the useful life of assets recorded in this GL account to the term of
           the contract or legal right. Examples include non-permanent easements and water, mineral,
           and timber rights.

          Other Intangible Assets (amortizable) – The cost of intangible assets (other than land use
           rights) that have limited lives, for example, patents.




OAM 15.60.10                                                                                         4 of 13
114.   Infrastructure: Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally are stationary in
       nature and can be preserved for a significantly greater number of years than most capital
       assets. Examples of infrastructure assets include roads, bridges, tunnels, water and sewer
       systems, and lighting systems. Do not consider buildings as infrastructure assets, except
       buildings that are an ancillary part of a network of infrastructure assets, such as road
       maintenance shops associated with roadway systems. Infrastructure capital assets are subject
       to depreciation and are recorded in the following GL accounts.

          State Highways – All state highway roads maintained by an agency including interstate
           highways, principle arterials, minor arterials, major collectors and minor collectors. Costs
           includes construction of the road, associated lighting, signage, traffic control devices, pipes,
           wires, guard rails, culverts, drainage systems, and retaining walls. Also, include
           maintenance buildings (such as sand sheds) and rest areas if the agency considers these
           items a subsidiary part of state highways.

          Other Roads – Any graveled or paved section of land maintained by an agency and used by
           motorized vehicles, not associated with state highways. Costs includes construction of the
           road, associated lighting, signage, traffic control devices, pipes, wires, guard rails, culverts,
           drainage systems, and retaining walls. Also, include maintenance or other buildings
           connected with the roadways.

          Tunnels and Bridges – Tunnels, bridges, trestles, and other similar items needed for the
           construction of roadway systems.

          Airports – Any airport maintained by an agency. An airport includes elements such as air
           traffic control structures, hangers, taxiways, runways, fueling stations, outbuildings,
           helicopter landing pads, and lighting.

          Utility Systems – Systems designed to deliver facility services including, for example,
           sanitary sewer collection systems (not septic systems), fiber optics systems, water
           distribution systems, electrical distribution systems, and vehicle fuel distribution systems.
           These systems differ from land improvements in that they are not an integral part of the
           operation of a single building. Example: Classify a septic system that is integral to the
           operation of a single building as a land improvement, rather than as infrastructure.

          Docks, Dikes and Dams – Infrastructure including docks, piers, dikes, levies, seawalls, dams
           and structures associated with dams, wharves, and other similar assets.

Acquisitions

115.   Account for capital assets purchased with resources from proprietary funds or fiduciary
       funds, or capital assets donated to those funds, within the GL accounts of those funds. Capital
       assets purchased with resources from governmental funds, or donated to governmental funds,
       are considered general capital assets (assets associated with governmental activities). Account
       for general capital assets in the government-wide reporting fund.

116.   Agencies may acquire capital assets by purchase (with or without trade-in), construction,
       capital lease agreement, installment purchase contract, donation, transfer from another fund or
       agency, eminent domain, or by foreclosure. Normally, agencies intend to resell assets acquired
       through foreclosure. Record items for resale as inventory rather than capital assets.

117.   Purchase: Report purchased capital assets at historical cost. The cost of a capital asset
       includes ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into service. Ancillary charges include


OAM 15.60.10                                                                                         5 of 13
       costs that directly relate to acquisition of an asset, such as freight and handling charges,
       insurance on the asset while in transit, site preparation costs, and assembly or installation costs
       to get the asset ready for its intended use and location.

118.   When an agency purchases a capital asset, use the capital outlay expenditure/expense
       comptroller object that best matches the nature of the asset acquired. Comptroller objects for
       capital outlay appear on the D10 profile in R*STARS and are included in the range 5000
       through 5999 (e.g., 5800 Buildings and Improvements). The following entries illustrate how to
       record the purchase and capitalization of equipment acquired with governmental fund
       resources.

                                               Governmental Fund

       Generic entry to record expenditure using comptroller object 5150 - Equipment and Machinery.

           DR Expenditure (C/O 5150)                                                 5,000
             CR Cash                                                                         5,000
                                    Government-wide Reporting Fund

       T-code 545: To capitalize the asset using comptroller object 5150 - Equipment and Machinery.

           DR 0815 Equipment and Machinery                                           5,000
           DR 3074 Change in Capital Assets                                          5,000
             CR 3018 Invested in Capital Assets                                              5,000
             CR 3600 GAAP Expenditure Offset – C/O 5150                                      5,000

119.   Additions or Improvements to Existing Assets: The historical cost of a capital asset includes
       the cost of subsequent additions or improvements but excludes the cost of repairs and
       maintenance. An addition or improvement, unlike a repair, provides additional value, enhances
       a capital asset’s functionality (effectiveness or efficiency), or extends a capital asset’s expected
       useful life. Repairs and maintenance only retain value. Example: The periodic resurfacing of a
       road is expensed as a repair, while adding a new lane constitutes an addition that is capitalized.

       Upon purchase or completion of an addition or improvement, the agency must reevaluate the
       estimates used in the depreciation calculations (remaining useful life and salvage value) and
       adjust them prospectively, if necessary.

120.   Purchase with Trade-In: When the seller grants a trade-in allowance, record the cost of the new
       asset at the amount of the cash paid, plus the unexpired cost (asset less accumulated
       depreciation) of the trade-in surrendered. This rule applies to assets purchased and recorded in
       proprietary funds, fiduciary funds, and the government-wide reporting fund.

121.   Construction: The cost of capital assets acquired through construction includes all the costs
       required to build the asset and get it ready for its intended use, such as architect fees,
       engineering fees, materials, labor, subcontractor charges, and other similar costs.

122.   Capitalized Interest: When enterprise funds use tax-exempt debt to finance the capital
       construction of specified assets, capitalize the interest costs incurred during the construction
       period as part of the cost to construct the asset. Interest capitalization starts on the date of the
       borrowing and continues until the date the asset is ready for its intended use. Interest earned
       during this period on unspent borrowings reduces the amount the agency capitalizes. Do not
       include capitalized interest in the cost of assets purchased with resources from governmental
       funds. Do not include capitalized interest in the cost of assets purchased with the resources of


OAM 15.60.10                                                                                          6 of 13
       internal service funds, as these are governmental activities for government-wide financial
       reporting purposes.

123.   Capital Lease Agreement: If a lease agreement meets the criteria of a capital lease, capitalize
       the related asset using an amount equal to the net present value of future minimum lease
       payments. See OAM 15.60.30.

124.   Installment Purchase Contract: The cost of a capital asset acquired through an installment
       purchase contract does not include the interest charges contained in each payment. Expense
       the interest charges. See OAM 15.60.40, the final paragraph, for an example of how to account
       for an installment purchase contract. The example involves a software licensing agreement that
       is accounted for as an installment purchase contract.

125.   Donation of Capital Asset by External Party: Report capital assets donated to an agency by an
       external party at their estimated acquisition value at the time of donation, plus ancillary
       charges, if any. It’s important to note that acquisition value is a market-based entry price, which
       is the price to acquire an asset, rather than an exit price, which is the price to dispose of an
       asset. If the agency cannot readily determine the acquisition value, use an appraisal value. If an
       agency considers donated capital assets as capital contributions, report the amount of the
       contribution separately on the operating statement. The following entry illustrates the donation
       of equipment to a governmental fund.

                                   Government-wide Reporting Fund

       T-code 537R: To capitalize a donated asset using comptroller object 2550 - Capital
       Contributions.

           DR 0815 Equipment and Machinery                                          5,000
           DR 3074 Change in Capital Assets                                                 5,000
             CR 3018 Invested in Capital Assets                                     5,000
             CR 3200 GAAP Revenue Offset (C/O 2550)                                         5,000

       Note that there is no entry to be made directly in the governmental fund to record the donation.
       Only an entry to the government-wide reporting fund is made. If a proprietary fund receives
       a donated capital asset, it does recognize the donation as a capital contribution.

126.   Capital Assets Used for Pollution Remediation: Agencies account for the estimated costs to
       acquire facilities and equipment that will be used exclusively in pollution remediation activities
       as a component of the pollution remediation obligation. Agencies record the eventual purchase
       of the facilities and equipment as a reduction of the previously recognized liability for pollution
       remediation outlays.

127.   Transfer of Assets: When capital assets move from one agency to another, the receiving
       agency reports those assets at the net book value previously reported (that is, historical cost
       less accumulated depreciation) by the sending agency in the government-wide statement of net
       position. Consequently, the sending agency recognizes no gain or loss. Record the transfer in
       R*STARS as a two-step process.

       Step 1: Select the appropriate transaction code from the list below to remove the depreciated
               portion of the capital asset from the sending agency’s GL accounts. The receiving
               agency records the depreciated portion of the capital asset in its GL accounts using
               the same transaction code with an “R” (reverse).




OAM 15.60.10                                                                                        7 of 13
                                                                         DR GL            CR GL
                  TC       Description                                   (Accum Depr)     (Asset)
                  529      FA Disp/Adj-Motor Veh-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid      0872             0816
                  530      FA Disp/Adj-Bldg&Imp-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid       0875             0852
                  531      FA Disp/Adj-Land Impr-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid      0867             0856
                  532      FA Disp/Adj-DP Sftwr-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid       0868             0817
                  533      FA Disp/Adj-Equip&Mach-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid     0869             0815
                  534      FA Disp/Adj-Lesehld Imp-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid    0870             0862
                  535      FA Disp/Adj Cap L’sd-Prop/Govt-Wide/Fid       0871             0863
                  538      FA Disp/Adj-DP Hrdware-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid      0873             0818
                  539      FA Disp/Adj-Art/His Tres-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid    0876             0812
                  543      FA Disp/Adj-St Highways-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid     0880             0840
                  544      FA Disp/Adj-Tun’l/Brid-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid      0881             0842
                  546      FA Disp/Adj-LandUse Rght-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid    0865             0849
                  547      FA Disp/Adj-Oth Intangib-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid    0866             0820
                  551      FA Disp/Adj-Airports-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid        0882             0843
                  552      FA Disp/Adj-Util Syst-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid       0883             0844
                  553      Disp/Adj-Docks,Dikes,Dams-Prop/Gov-Wi/Fid     0884             0845
                  557      FA Disp/Adj-Oth Roads-Prop/Gov-Wide/Fid       0885             0841

        Step 2: Use transaction codes 900 and 901 (a balanced transfer) to transfer the remaining net
                book value of the capital asset from one agency to another. The sending agency uses
                T-code 900 and the appropriate agency transfer-out comptroller object. The receiving
                agency uses T-code 901 and the appropriate agency transfer-in comptroller object.

                Note: If the transfer involves a capital asset that is fully depreciated, T-codes 900 and
                      901 are not required.

                Use comptroller objects 1301 and 1401 only when transferring the net book value of a
                capital asset from one fund to another fund within the same agency (not transfers
                between agencies).

                See the chart below for details.


                  TC      Description        DR G/Ls    CR GLs      Optional G/Ls   Comp Object

                  900     Capital Asset      3550,      3074        0811-0863       1401, 1430, 1800-
                          Transfer Out       3018                                   1999
                          Between Funds/                                            GASB 38 transfer
                          Agencies                                                  number required
                  901     Capital Asset      3074       3150,       0811-0863       1201-1301, 1305-
                          Transfer In                   3018                        1490
                          Between Funds/                                            GASB 38 transfer
                          Agencies                                                  number required

Ownership is Unclear

128.   Sometimes it is unclear who owns a particular capital asset. Uncertainty of ownership may
       arise when an agency maintains or uses an asset, but another governmental entity finances the
       capital asset and retains a reversionary interest or is responsible for replacement of the asset.
       Under these circumstances, the agency records the asset in its accounting records and
       depreciates the asset, if either of the following conditions apply:



OAM 15.60.10                                                                                        8 of 13
           The agency is party to an arrangement that makes it responsible for maintaining the asset,
            or

           The agency is the party that uses the asset in its activities and makes the decisions
            regarding when and how the asset will be used and managed.

Estimated Historical Cost

129.   Agencies may use a variety of methods to estimate the historical cost of a capital asset when
       invoices are no longer available. One method is to use historical sources, such as old vendor
       catalogs, to establish the average cost of obtaining a similar asset at the time of acquisition (the
       standard costing approach). Another approach is to deflate the current cost of a similar asset
       using an appropriate price index (normal costing or backtrending). In either case, once
       calculated, reduce the estimated historical cost by an appropriate amount of accumulated
       depreciation or amortization.

       Example: An agency acquired an asset 10 years ago and the asset has an estimated remaining
       useful life of 5 years. The current cost of a similar asset is $9,500, and the price index for that
       type of asset over the past 10 years is 1.90 (that is, a 90% increase).

            9,500 (cost of new asset) = 5,000 (estimated historical cost)
               1.90 (price index)

            10 years (past service life) X 5,000 (estimated historical cost) = 3,333 accum depr/amort
            15 years (estimated total service life)

Subsidiary Property Ledgers

130.   Track and control capital assets by affixing permanent identification tags and recording them in
       subsidiary property ledgers. The tags must be pre-numbered and controlled. At a minimum,
       maintain the following details in the property ledgers:

       a. Asset identification tag number
       b. Asset description
       c. Acquisition date
       d. Acquisition voucher number
       e. Acquisition cost for purchases or acquisition value for donations.
       f.   Location
       g. Accumulated depreciation
       h. Value for insurance coverage (usually replacement value). Refer to the Property Self-
          Insurance Manual maintained by DAS, State Services Division, Risk Management.

131.   Agencies may also use subsidiary property ledgers to track and control non-capital IT assets
       and other non-capital assets at high risk of loss. In either case, do not record non-capital assets
       in the capital asset GL control accounts. See OAM 10.50.00 PO, Capital and Non-capital
       Assets for detailed internal control procedures related to capital and non-capital assets.




OAM 15.60.10                                                                                        9 of 13
Reconciliations

132.   Reconcile capital outlay expenditures to the additions recorded in the subsidiary property
       ledgers. If an agency budgets its capital asset purchases or construction as services and
       supplies expenditures, include those services and supplies comptroller objects in the
       reconciliation. Reconcile deletions recorded in the subsidiary property ledgers to the property
       disposition records. Lastly, reconcile the subsidiary property ledgers to the capital asset GL
       control accounts. Perform these reconciliations at least quarterly.

Physical Inventory Observation

133.   Take a physical inventory of the agency's property at least annually to verify the existence of
       all items listed on the subsidiary property ledgers. Investigate and resolve discrepancies and
       adjust the GL control accounts accordingly. Maintain documented evidence that the agency has
       conducted a physical inventory.

Impairment

134.   When a significant, unexpected decline in the service utility of a capital asset is determined to
       be a permanent impairment, reduce the carrying value of the capital asset by the amount of the
       impairment loss. For guidance, refer to OAM 15.60.25, Capital Asset Impairments.

Disposals and Retirements

135.   As assets wear out or become obsolete, agencies may sell, scrap, or exchange them. When
       disposing of surplus capital assets, follow the guidelines established by DAS, State Services
       Division, Surplus Property unit. Use the property disposition request (PDR) form that agencies
       complete to dispose of surplus property as documentation for removing the asset from the
       agency’s GL accounts and subsidiary property ledgers.

136.   If an agency permanently retires a capital asset from service (either voluntarily or involuntarily)
       and does not immediately sell or otherwise dispose of the asset, the asset ceases to be a
       capital asset (because it no longer will be used in operations) and must be reclassified to state
       owned property held for sale (GL 0927). Report assets held for sale at the lower of book value
       or fair value.

137.   Proprietary Fund Sale: When an agency sells an asset, remove the cost from the appropriate
       asset account and the related depreciation from the accumulated depreciation account. The
       difference between the unexpired cost (asset cost less accumulated depreciation) and the
       proceeds received on the sale equals the gain or loss.

138.   The entries below illustrate the sale of a fully depreciated piece of equipment originally
       purchased by an enterprise fund for $50,000. At the time of sale, accumulated depreciation was
       $50,000. The equipment was sold for $20,000. Since the asset was fully depreciated, the entire
       $20,000 represents a gain on the sale.

                                                Enterprise Fund

       T-code 149: To record sale proceeds using comptroller object 2330 - Gain (Loss) on
       Disposition.

           DR 0065 Unreconciled Deposit                                             20,000
             CR 3100 Revenue Control-Cash (C/O 2330)                                         20,000



OAM 15.60.10                                                                                          10 of 13
       T-code 533: To remove accumulated depreciation

           DR 0869 Accumulated Depreciation – Equipment                            50,000
             CR 0815 Equipment and Machinery                                                50,000

139.   Sale of General Capital Assets: When an agency sells a general capital asset, remove the
       cost from the appropriate asset account and the related depreciation from the accumulated
       depreciation account in the government-wide reporting fund.

140.   The entries below illustrate the sale of a partially depreciated vehicle originally purchased with
       special revenue fund resources for $20,000. At the time of sale, accumulated depreciation was
       $15,000. The vehicle was sold for $5,000.

                                             Special Revenue Fund

       T-code 149: To record sale proceeds received using comptroller object 2330 - Gain (Loss) on
       Disposition.

           DR 0065 Unreconciled Deposit                                            5,000
             CR 3100 Revenue Control-Cash (C/O 2330)                                        5,000

                                       Government-wide Reporting Fund

       T-code 529: To remove accumulated depreciation.

           DR 0872 Accumulated Depreciation – Motor Vehicles                       15,000
             CR 0816 Motor Vehicles                                                         15,000

       T-code 537: To remove unexpired cost using comptroller object 2330 - Gain (Loss) on
       Disposition.

           DR 3018 Invested in Capital Assets                                      5,000
           DR 3200 GAAP Revenue Offset (C/O 2330)                                  5,000
             CR 0816 Motor Vehicles                                                         5,000
             CR 3074 Change in Capital Assets                                               5,000

141.   Trade-in: When the seller grants a trade-in allowance, record the cost of the new asset as the
       amount of the cash paid, plus the unexpired cost (asset cost less accumulated depreciation) of
       the trade-in surrendered. Remove the cost and accumulated depreciation of an asset traded-in
       from the accounts in conjunction with recording the acquisition cost of the new asset. This rule
       applies to assets purchased and recorded in proprietary funds, fiduciary funds, and the
       government-wide reporting fund.

Financial Statement Reporting

142.   SARS combines capital assets into the asset categories noted above in paragraph 109 on the
       proprietary funds statement of net position, the statement of fiduciary net position, and the
       government-wide statement of net position. SARS reports accumulated
       depreciation/amortization as a contra account to capital assets in the proprietary funds
       statement of net position and the government-wide statement of net position. Capital assets are
       reported net of accumulated depreciation in the statement of fiduciary net position. SARS
       reports invested in capital assets, net of related debt, as a component of net position (equity) in
       the proprietary funds statement of net position and government-wide statement of net position.



OAM 15.60.10                                                                                         11 of 13
143.   SARS reports depreciation/amortization expense in proprietary funds as an operating expense
       in the statement of revenues, expenses and changes in fund net position.
       Depreciation/amortization expense in fiduciary funds is reported in the statement of changes in
       fiduciary net position as a part of administrative expenses. SARS reports
       depreciation/amortization expense in the government-wide reporting fund as a program
       expense in the applicable function for governmental or business-type activities.

144.   SARS reports gains and losses on disposition of capital assets of a proprietary fund in
       nonoperating revenues/expenses in the statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in fund
       net position. Similar gains and losses in fiduciary funds are reported as part of administrative
       expenses.

145.   SARS reports proceeds from the sale of general capital assets as other revenue in the
       governmental fund statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balances.
       Although comptroller object 2330 - Gain (Loss) on Disposition of Assets is used to record sale
       proceeds, it rolls up to Other Revenue for governmental fund reporting purposes.

146.   When an agency transfers a capital asset to a proprietary fund from the government-wide
       reporting fund, SARS reclassifies the transfer-in and treats it as a capital contribution for
       financial reporting. The capital contribution appears as a separate line item within nonoperating
       revenues/expenses on the proprietary funds statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in
       fund net position.

147.   When an agency transfers a capital asset from a proprietary fund to the government-wide
       reporting fund, SARS reclassifies the transfer-out and reports it as nonoperating expense on
       the proprietary funds statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in fund net position.

148.   Because the state does not normally sell general capital assets (assets associated with
       governmental activities), sales of capital assets are usually infrequent and insignificant.
       However, agencies should consider whether a sales transaction meets the definition of a
       special item or an extraordinary item that must be reported separately in the operating
       statement. If applicable, agencies must disclose the transaction when completing the year-end
       General Disclosure forms.

149.   In the government-wide statement of activities, SARS reports immaterial gains/losses on
       disposition of general capital assets as an adjustment to current year depreciation expense. If
       the gains are material, SARS reports them as general revenues (unlike gains on the sale of
       capital assets in proprietary funds, which are reported as part of the appropriate functional
       expense within business-type activities), or as a special item or an extraordinary item, if
       applicable.

Disclosure Requirements

150.   The state must disclose capital asset activity in the CAFR, including beginning balance,
       increases, decreases, and ending balance of each asset classification and the related
       accumulated depreciation/amortization. The notes to the financial statements report capital
       assets used in governmental activities separately from capital assets used in business-type
       activities.

151.   Notes to the state’s CAFR also include a schedule to illustrate the amount of depreciation
       expense charged to each function during the fiscal year. The disclosures present
       depreciation/amortization for capital assets used in governmental activities separately from
       depreciation/amortization for capital assets used in business-type activities. Depreciation related
       to fiduciary fund activities is also presented.


OAM 15.60.10                                                                                      12 of 13
152.   If an agency elects not to capitalize a work of art or historical treasure because it meets all of
       the criteria in paragraph 114, the agency must provide a description of the collection and the
       reasons the agency has chosen not to capitalize it. If applicable, disclose this information when
       completing the year-end General Disclosure forms.

153.   SARS reports the amount of net position (equity) invested in capital assets, net of any related
       debt outstanding at year end. To determine the appropriate balance, agencies complete a year-
       end General Disclosure form to report the amount of outstanding debt issued to acquire or
       construct capital assets. SARS subtracts the outstanding debt from the Invested in Capital
       Assets account and reports invested in capital assets, net of related debt, in the proprietary
       fund statement of net position and the government-wide statement of net position.




OAM 15.60.10                                                                                      13 of 13
