                                                                               Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                      10.80.00.PO

 Oregon Department of                             Policy                       Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                   July 1, 2003

 Chapter          Internal Control
                                                                               .1 OF .2
 Part             Auditing

 Section                                                                       Approval

                                                                               Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 291.015
                ORS 291.026
                ORS 291.040
                ORS 293.515
                ORS 293.590


Auditor Understanding of Internal Control

        .101    The Secretary of State, Audits Division, is the constitutional auditor of public accounts in Oregon.
                The Audits Division conducts a statewide single audit annually, and performs other audits and
                reviews at its discretion. The audits are performed in conformance with generally accepted
                government auditing standards.

        .102    Generally accepted auditing standards require that the independent auditor study and evaluate the
                existing system of internal control as a basis for reliance thereon to determine the nature, timing,
                and extent of tests to be performed. Findings and judgments resulting from the auditor’s study of
                internal control affect the overall audit plan including judgments about staffing, extent of
                supervision, conduct and scope of the audit, and degree of professional skepticism applied.

        .103    Internal auditors provide assistance to independent auditors by documenting existing systems and
                controls, recommending appropriate corrective actions, and assuring recommendations are
                implemented as planned. The Audits Division may rely upon the work of internal auditors in
                certain circumstances.


Federal Compliance

        .104    Agency management is required to identify laws and regulations pertaining to compliance
                requirements. Agencies should establish internal controls to ensure compliance with those laws
                and regulations applicable to federal assistance.


Financial Statement Compliance

        .105    Agency management is required to establish internal controls to ensure compliance with laws,
                regulations, and provisions of contracts and grant agreements that have a direct and material
                effect on the determination of financial statement amounts.




                                                                                                        10.80.00.PO.1
Entrance and Exit Conferences

       .106   Agency heads or their designees must attend the audit entrance and exit conferences.


Agency Responsibility to Respond to Audit Findings

       .107   For all audits conducted by, or under the auspices of, the Audits Division, agency management is
              responsible to respond to audit findings and ensure proper resolution.


Audit Sanctions

       .108   ORS 293.515 allows the Secretary of State to certify to the Governor the failure of State officials
              or employees to comply with significant recommendations in audit reports.

              a. The Governor may or may not order compliance with the audit recommendations.

              b. The Governor may order withholding of salaries in order to obtain compliance with
                 orders issued.




                                                                                                     10.80.00.PO.2
