                              OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
                                                        NUMBER                       SUPERSEDES

                                                        35.30.70                     35.30.70
                                                                                     dated 07/01/2013
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE               PAGE NUMBER

                                                        12/11/2018                   Page 1 of 2
 Division                                               REFERENCE/AUTHORITY
 Chief Financial Office
                                                        ORS 291.015
                                                        ORS 293.252
 Policy Owner                                           ORS 646.639
 Statewide Accounting and Reporting Services

 SUBJECT                                                APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Accounts Receivable Management- Account                George Naughton, Chief Financial Officer
                                                        Signature on file
 Activity: Skip Tracing and Asset Location

PURPOSE
This policy provides agencies with guidelines for using skip tracing and asset location tools to enhance
the collection of delinquent accounts receivable.

APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all state agencies included in the State’s annual financial statements, except for
those agencies specifically exempted by OAM 01.05.00.

FORMS/EXHIBITS/INSTRUCTIONS
None.

DEFINITIONS
Skip tracing: The process of locating a debtor when the information a state agency has on file is
determined to be outdated, inaccurate, or incomplete.

Asset location: The process of finding a debtor’s assets of value (e.g. cash, equipment, land,
residence).

Click here for other definitions.

EXCLUSIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS
The guidance referenced in this policy does not apply when it conflicts with any state or federal statute
or regulation.

POLICY
101. Agency management must ensure that agency personnel employ appropriate practices in the
     collection of accounts receivable.

102.    State agencies are encouraged to incorporate skip tracing and asset location into their
        collection procedures.

Policy No: 35.30.70 | Effective: 12-11-2018                                                        Page 1 of 2
103.    State agencies should exercise professional judgment to determine how much time and effort
        should be spent utilizing skip tracing or asset location services. When determining how much
        time and effort to employ, consider the amount of investigation time compared to the amount of
        the debt.

104.    State agencies may use returned mail as a skip tracing tool. When using this tool, state
        agencies should determine how the updated information will be processed.

        Note: Refusal of a registered or certified letter does not necessarily indicate the person is not at
        that address.

105.    State agencies may use telephone contact as a skip tracing tool. When using this tool, refer to
        OAM 35.30.40 for telephone contact provisions.

PROCEDURES:
106. There are several tools available to state agencies for skip tracing and asset location; some
     are free services available through the internet, while others are fee-based services such as
     credit reports and consumer database services.

        Some examples of free skip tracing services available through the internet include:
        a. http://www.addresses.com/
        b. http://www.worldpages.com/
        c. http://find.person.superpages.com/

        Some examples of fee-based services include:
        a.   Credit bureaus
        b.   LexisNexis
        c.   http://www.usatrace.com
        d.   http://www.555-1212.com
        e.   http://www.skipease.com/

107.    State agencies are encouraged to coordinate with other state agencies to obtain information
        about a debtor. For example, the Oregon Department of Transportation (Driver and Motor
        Vehicle Services and Motor Carrier Transportation Division), Secretary of State (Corporation
        Division), or Oregon Employment Department may have additional information to assist in
        locating a debtor.

108.    Each county clerk’s office has information such as marriage licenses, death certificates, and a
        list of real property owned by the debtor. Each county assessor’s office maintains property
        records which may identify the name of current and previous owners.




Policy No: 35.30.70 | Effective: 12-11-2018                                                        Page 2 of 2
