                                                                               Number
 OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL                                                      10.30.00.PO

 Oregon Department of                             Policy                       Effective Date
 Administrative Services
 State Controller's Division                                                   July 1, 2001

 Chapter          Internal Control
                                                                               .1 OF .2
 Part             Revenues

 Section                                                                       Approval

                                                                               Signature on file at SCD

Authority       ORS 291.015
                ORS 293.590


Revenue Controls

        .101    Management must establish and maintain adequate internal controls over revenue.              At a
                minimum, these controls should provide evidence of the following:

                a. Revenue transactions occurred and that cash and revenue amounts exist as
                   recorded.

                b. All revenue transactions are recorded and nothing has been excluded from the
                   accounts.

                c.   Revenue is properly classified as to source, mathematically correct, and entered
                     appropriately into the accounting system. Restricted revenue is classified separately
                     to show restricted rights and obligations.

                d. Revenue is recognized in the proper period, neither postponing current period
                   recordings to the next period nor accelerating next-period transactions into the
                   current-year accounts.

                e. Revenue transactions are reported in accordance with accounting principles and in
                   compliance with applicable legal, administrative, and budget requirements.


Accounts Receivable

        .102    Recording uncollected revenues (revenues earned but not received) results in the recognition of
                receivables. Receivables include loans, notes or similar obligations owed to the agency and must
                be recorded in the accounting records. Accounts receivable generally arise from the sale of
                goods or the rendering of services, but accounts receivable also arise from other sources, such
                as overpayments of entitlements. Accounts receivable include the amounts due for goods and
                services provided by state agencies to other state agencies, local governments, nonprofit
                organizations, and others.

        .103    Adequate internal control over receivables must be established and maintained. Adequate
                controls must include, at a minimum: separation of duties or appropriate compensating controls,
                proper authorization of transactions, and timely reconciliations. Collection documentation will
                include a record indicating the action taken, person performing the action, and the date of the
                action. Collection documentation must also include summaries of collection efforts and results,
                summary totals of accounts written off, and results of using other collection expertise.

                                                                                                      10 30 00 PO.1
       Documentation should also include other information deemed necessary to aid in identifying
       effective collection programs and areas that need improvement. A cumulative history can aid in
       the improvement of receivables management and collections.

.104   Accounts receivable will be aged and analyzed. The analysis will be documented and will include,
       at a minimum, the aging of accounts receivable balances, descriptions and summaries of payees
       or debtors and evaluation of the quality of the accounts receivable for management review and
       appropriate action.

.105   Refer to Oregon Accounting Manual Chapter 35, Accounts Receivable Management, for details
       regarding Liquidated and Delinquent Accounts, as well as Interagency Receivables, Billings, and
       Payments.




                                                                                           10 30 00 PO.2
