                                                                                                    Statewide Policy



OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
Subject:       Accounting and Financial Reporting                                Number:          40.20.10.PO
Division:      State Controller’s Division                                       Effective date: May 1, 2007
Chapter:       Travel
Part:          Corporate Travel Card
Section:

Approved:      John Radford, State Controller                                    Original signature on file in SCD



Authority        ORS Chapter 291
                 ORS 292.220
                 ORS 292.230
                 ORS 292.250
                 ORS 292.495
                 ORS 292.280 through 292.288
                 ORS 240.250
                 ORS 243.650
                 ORS 244.040

Purpose

        .101     The purpose of this policy to provide guidelines on the use of the State Corporate Travel Charge
                 Card (travel card) for official state business travel.

        .102     The State sponsors the Travel Card Program to provide state employees who travel on behalf of
                 state government a means to pay for authorized travel expenses incurred. The travel card is a
                 personal liability card, not a State liability card. The travel card is available to individual state
                 employees through US Bank, subject to US Bank credit standards.


Agency Issued Cash Travel Advances

        .103     See OAM 40.20.00, effective date July 1, 2012 for travel advance information.

Use of Travel Card

        .107      The preferred method of providing a means to state employees to pay for authorized travel
                  expenses is through the use of the travel card. Agencies are encouraged to adopt the use of the
                  travel card; however, it is understood that US Bank may deny issuance of a travel card or may
                  cancel a travel card due to delinquency.

        .108      Agencies are encouraged to obtain the travel card for all personnel that continuously travel or
                  periodically travel (minimum of at least one travel occasion every 6 months) on official state
                  business. Agencies should periodically review authorized travel cards issued and regularly cancel
                  travel cards if the employee travel needs have been significantly reduced or eliminated.

        .109      Only official travel expenses shall be purchased with the travel card. Official travel shall include,
                  but is not limited to, lodging, meals, and ground transportation. When necessary, in emergency
                  travel situations, air transportation fares may also be purchased with the travel card. However,
                  the preferred payment method for air transportation is to use the Central Travel System (CTS)

                                                                                                          40 20 00.PO.1
              Account (or ‘ghost account’) through the State’s travel agency. Retail spending is permitted only
              in those instances when, during official state travel time, the retail items being purchased are
              necessary for state business purposes.

       .110   Use of the travel card is authorized only for travel related expenses while on official state
              business travel and is strictly prohibited for any other purpose. The travel card shall not be used
              for personal purchases and doing so will be considered abuse of the card. Abuse of the corporate
              travel card privilege or disregard for the terms of the Corporate Travel Card Agreement may
              result in cancellation of the travel card and is grounds for disciplinary action up to and including
              dismissal.

       .111   Employees are liable for all charges they make on their travel cards. This includes purchases or
              cash obtained at an automated teller machine (ATM) as well as any late fees assessed. Cash
              that is lost is not reimbursable by the State. Under the current travel card contract, neither the
              employee nor the State is liable for illegal charges to the card due to lost or stolen cards.
              However, cardholders should immediately report lost and stolen cards to US Bank.


Preferred Method of Travel Advance Issuance

       .112   Whenever possible, travel advances shall be obtained through the travel card. Use of the travel
              card reduces the administrative burden of application, voucher/warrant issuance, reporting, and
              reconciliation costs associated with a cash advance issued by check or warrant. In addition, use
              of the travel card sustains State cash resources.


Travel Card Monitoring Responsibilities

       .113   Agency Travel Card Management. Agencies are required to provide for internal management of
              the travel cards issued to their employees by assigning a person or persons to function as the
              agency Travel Card Coordinator (coordinator). The coordinator(s) will ensure that all card
              applications are appropriate and processed correctly. In addition, the coordinator(s) or other
              individual(s) designated by the agency shall request and review monthly card management
              reports (available on-line through US Bank’s Access Online program) regarding the agency’s
              cardholders using the accompanying procedures defined in 40.20.10.PR. Agencies are required
              to perform appropriate review and monitor delinquent accounts or misuse of the card. Each
              agency is required to take appropriate corrective action as necessary for misuse, delinquent
              accounts, or other anomalies.

       .114   Canceling Travel Card Privileges upon Termination or Transfer. Each agency is responsible for
              canceling travel card privileges for an employee who either terminates or transfers to another
              agency. Failure to notify the card issuer of an employee termination transfers the liability of any
              charges made on the card after termination from the cardholder to the issuing agency. Agencies
              must destroy cancelled cards.


Payment of Travel Card Monthly Statement

       .115   The payment of the travel card monthly statement is the responsibility of the state employee who
              is authorized to travel and to whom the charge card is issued. The entire balance is to be paid in
              full each month. Under no circumstance should an agency pay an employee’s charge card
              statement. Employees are required to submit requests for business travel expense
              reimbursements timely after travel so that reimbursement payments to the employee provide
              sufficient resources and time for the employee to pay the monthly travel card statement.

       .116   Effective May 1, 2007 cardholder accounts with a 60 day past due balance will be suspended by
              US Bank and subsequently cancelled if not paid in full before they become 90 days past due.
              When an account is suspended, no additional charges can be made until the cardholder pays the
              past due balance. The first instance of a 90 day past due balance will result in the cancellation of

                                                                                                      40 20 00.PO.2
              the cardholder account with no provision for reinstatement of privileges, unless the past due
              balance was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the cardholder (i.e., erroneous
              posting of charges or payments through no fault of the cardholder). Travel cards that were
              canceled prior to May 1, 2007 as a result of a 60 day past due balance (in accordance with the
              previous policy) will not be reinstated.


Corporate Travel Card Rebate

       .117   Under the Corporate Travel Card program, the State may qualify for an annual rebate from US
              Bank. The rebate amount is based on a combination of dollar volume of purchases and timeliness
              of payments on accounts. Therefore, timely payment by employees of travel card account
              balances contributes towards earning the rebate. When a travel card account balance is charged
              off by US Bank (180 days past due), the amount charged off reduces the rebate. Although the
              amount is “charged off” for the purposes of the travel card program, US Bank will continue to
              pursue collection from the cardholder.


Use of Personal Credit Card

       .118   State employees may opt to use their own personal credit card in lieu of obtaining the travel card
              and/or a cash advance. Employees choosing to use a personal credit card to pay for official state
              travel expenses must adhere to the Oregon Government Standards and Practices Commission's
              Advisory Opinion 01A-1006. This advisory opinion states that using benefits earned from the use
              of a personal credit card that offers incentives such as cash rebates, frequent flyer miles or other
              benefits based upon the dollar amount of purchases made violates ORS 244.040(1)(a) which
              prevents public officials from using their position or office to obtain personal financial gain.

       .119   Employees using their own personal credit card for travel related expenses may be reimbursed
              for reasonable ATM cash withdrawal charges for cash advances up to the amount of the travel
              card fee. Interest accumulations for cash withdrawals made using a personal card are not
              reimbursable.




                                                                                                      40 20 00.PO.3
