                             OREGON ACCOUNTING MANUAL
                                                        NUMBER                       SUPERSEDES

                                                        50.50.00                     50.50.00.PO & .PR
                                                                                     dated 08/01/2001
 STATEWIDE POLICY
                                                        EFFECTIVE DATE               PAGE NUMBER

                                                        TBD                          Pages 1 of 4
 Division                                               REFERENCE/AUTHORITY
 Chief Financial Office                                 Internal Revenue Service publications:
                                                        General Instructions for Certain Information Returns
                                                        Instructions for Forms 1099, 1098, 5498, 1096, and W-2G
                                                        Publication 1179 – General Rules and Specifications for
                                                        Substitutes Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and Certain
                                                        Other Information Returns
                                                        Publication 1220 - Specifications for Electronic Filing of
                                                        Forms 1097, 1098, 1099, 3921, 3922, 5498 and W-2G
                                                        Publication 1281 - Backup Withholding for Missing and
                                                        Incorrect Name/TIN(S)
                                                        Publication 1586 - Reasonable Cause Regulations and
                                                        Requirements for Missing and Incorrect Name/TINs

 Policy Owner                                           APPROVED SIGNATURE
 Statewide Accounting and Reporting Services
                                                        George Naughton, Chief Financial Officer
                                                        Signature on file
 SUBJECT
 1099-MISC Reporting

PURPOSE
Oregon State government must comply with reporting requirements for Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
information returns. All agencies must comply with IRS requirements by acquiring, accumulating, and reporting
information required on information returns, except the information identified below as the responsibility of
Statewide Financial Management Services (SFMS).

APPLICABILITY
The following procedures pertain to the filing of forms 1099-MISC. If your agency is subject to reporting for
other types of 1099 forms, these procedures may not cover all reporting situations. For additional information,
check the IRS instructions for filing information returns (refer to Reference/Authority above). To further clarify
requirements for filing any information returns, contact the SFMS Accountant.

FORMS/EXHIBITS/INSTRUCTIONS
None.

DEFINITIONS
Click here for other definitions.

EXCLUSIONS AND SPECIAL SITUATIONS
None.

GENERAL INFORMATION

Policy No: 50-50-00 | Effective: TBD                                                                       Page 1 of 4
Federal regulations require organizations to report certain types of payments to the IRS. The IRS has also
established specific rules regarding the solicitation of taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) from payees,
backup withholding triggers, vendor payments and withholding requirements. The State is required to report
payment for services made to any individual or entity other than most corporations, governmental entities, or
international organizations. Payments to companies, sole proprietorships, estates, trusts, partnerships and
individuals are all reportable. In addition, the fair market value of prizes and awards must be reported. Form
1099-MISC must be filed with the IRS at the end of the calendar year if the vendor’s cumulative reportable
payments meet or exceed the IRS reporting threshold for the calendar year.

POLICY:

.101   SFMS is responsible for coordinating all information return compliance issues and related liaison
       activities between the state and the IRS for vendors in the Statewide Financial Management Application
       (SFMA) receiving a form 1099-MISC. SFMS is responsible to provide specific guidance, instruction,
       and current information to all agencies on all aspects of information return reporting as follows:

           a. Information and interpretations of form 1099-MISC reporting criteria.

           b. Accumulation of payment information.

           c. Backup withholding requirements including calculation, deposits and reporting.

           d. Filing requirements for original, computer-generated, manually prepared and corrected
              information returns.

.102   SFMS will provide verification procedures and review of SFMA for all electronic media to ensure the
       accuracy and completeness of information before submission to the IRS.

.103   Each agency is responsible for preparing, implementing, and maintaining policies and procedures to
       meet its federal information return requirements.

.104   Those agencies that are responsible for filing returns that are unique to their operations may elect to act
       as their own agent for coordinating the filing of such returns. If they also elect to file their own 1099-
       MISC forms, they must request an exception from SFMS. If an agency is required to file other types of
       1099 forms, the agency must use its own unique Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN). The
       agency is responsible and accountable for correct and timely filing of such returns.

PROCEDURES:

Payments Subject to 1099-MISC Reporting

.105   SFMS files all 1099-MISC forms for all SFMA vendors that meet the reporting requirements. State
       agencies are required to file form 1099-MISC for non-SFMS vendors and all other informational returns
       including other types of 1099 forms.

.106   Reportable payments are those made for services, rents, royalties, prizes and awards, and other fixed
       determinable income. The payments are reportable whether the paying agency directly receives the
       benefit of the services or whether they are paying for services received by a third party.

.107   Vendors subject to reporting are any vendors that are not corporations, except for medical corporations
       and attorneys, which are subject to reporting. Payments to companies, sole proprietorships, estates,
       trusts, partnerships, medical corporations, individuals, or non-profit organizations are all reportable.

Policy No: 50-50-00 | Effective: TBD                                                                   Page 2 of 4
.108   1099-MISC reporting is on a calendar year rather than a fiscal year and will include reportable
       payments totaling at least $600 paid within the calendar year being reported, whether or not the
       services were performed within the same calendar year in which the payments were made.

Obtaining a Proper Taxpayer Identification Number

.109   In order to file forms 1099-MISC with the IRS, it is necessary to include the vendor's Taxpayer
       Identification Number (TIN). A taxpayer’s TIN can be either a social security number or a FEIN. Note: A
       TIN is also required when creating a new vendor on SFMA.

.110   There is no required form for requesting TINs, and agencies may make the request either orally or in
       writing. SFMS sends form W-9 to vendors who claim to be corporations or if a vendor’s organization
       type is unknown. The form is also available from the IRS for use in requesting TINs.

.111   Personal services contracts issued by the Department of Administrative Services Procurement
       Services (PS) may include a section on the signature page that requests the vendor's TIN. Contracts
       issued by the agency may also have the vendor’s TIN. Each agency is responsible for developing
       internal procedures that instruct personnel involved in any procurement/purchasing function to request
       the TIN. If an agency uses a vendor whose contract was issued by PS, contact PS to determine if a TIN
       was submitted by the vendor and request the number for the agency's records. However, if a TIN was
       not received by PS and the agency uses the vendor, the agency must ask for the TIN directly from the
       vendor as in paragraph .110 above. The agency that incurs a liability to a given vendor is responsible
       for the reporting of the TIN to the IRS whether or not a third party was involved in hiring the vendor.

Locating Missing Vendor Information

.112   If vendor data collected by an agency is found to be in error or incomplete and the agency encounters
       difficulty in contacting the vendor, the information regarding companies or individuals who do business
       in Oregon may be available from the Corporation Division of the Secretary of State. Some of the
       information that may be available includes:

            a. Registry Number - a number assigned by the Corporation Division.

            b. Entity Name – name under which the entity does business.

            c. Owner's Name - name of the owner of the entity.

            d. Principal's Name - name of individual with primary responsibility for the business. Address –
               address of the entity, principal, and owner.

.113   The above information may be obtained by contacting the Secretary of State’s Corporation Division and
       requesting pdf copies of the business registry documents or by accessing the Corporation Division's
       online Business Registry Database.

Backup Withholding Requirements

.114   The IRS requires backup withholding (similar to income tax withholding for employees) on payments to
       vendors under any of the following circumstances:

            a. The vendor did not provide a TIN as requested by an agency (see .109 through .111 above).


Policy No: 50-50-00 | Effective: TBD                                                                Page 3 of 4
            b. SFMS has received two "B Notices" from the IRS regarding a given vendor within a three-year
               period. The IRS indicates that payee is subject to backup withholding due to underreporting
               through a notice.

            c. Payee failed to certify that they are not subject to backup withholding.

.115 Visit irs.gov for the latest backup withholding rate. The backup withholding rate is required withholding
     on all sums due to a vendor who meets the criteria in .114 above, even if the amount is less than $600
     in a calendar year.

.116   SFMS is responsible for processing backup withholding for vendors in SFMA.

Filing Requirements and Deadlines

.117   January 31st is the deadline for filing forms with the IRS and distributing a copy to payees/vendors.
       SFMS is responsible for the timely filing of 1099-MISC information for SFMS vendors. Agencies are
       responsible for providing accurate information. Agencies are responsible for filing any other information
       form 1099 required.

Filing Penalties

.118   The IRS may assess penalties against any entity, including a state agency, that is required to file form
       1099-MISC and fails to file, files untimely, files forms with incorrect or incomplete information, files
       unformatted forms, or files on paper when electronic filing was required. Penalties may be assessed
       against the Employer Identification Number under which an agency was required to file forms.




Policy No: 50-50-00 | Effective: TBD                                                                  Page 4 of 4
