



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-0927 
 Working Near Standing Tree Anchors, and Tail/Intermediate Support Trees 
 
 (1) Affected personnel must be notified of the potential failure zone of any tail tree, intermediate support tree and standing tree anchor.  NOTE: The potential failure zone is that area which could be impacted by the failure of any part of a tail tree, intermediate support tree or standing tree anchor as the result of forces or loads imposed on the tree by guylines, running lines or skylines.  (2) The boundaries of the potential failure zone must be determined by a competent person.  (3) The boundaries of the potential failure zone must encompass the area into which the tree or parts of the tree could fall, slide or roll and all trees, logs, lines and material that could be impacted by the tree failure.  (4) Personnel must be in the clear of the turn and out of the potential failure zone of a standing tree skyline or running line anchor before lines are tensioned.  NOTE: Personnel may be in the potential failure zone when minor positioning of the rigging is needed or to set chokers.  NOTE: "Before lines are tensioned" means before:  (a) Logs are moved or suspended.  (b) The rigging or carriage is moved to the landing or returned to the brush.  (c) Lines are tight-lined to clear up the road.  (d) Any movement or tightening of the line(s) other than that needed for minor positioning of the rigging or carriage to set chokers.  (5) Personnel working around tail and intermediate support trees must be in the clear of the turn and out of the potential failure zone before lines are tensioned.  NOTE: Personnel may be in the potential failure zone when minor positioning of the rigging is needed or to set chokers.  (6) If the potential failure zone cannot be determined, personnel must move at least 1 1/2 tree lengths from the base of tail and intermediate support trees, and in the clear before lines are tensioned.  (7) A competent person must instruct affected personnel in the safe work practices required for work activity in any potential failure zone. This instruction must identify the:  (a) Boundaries of the potential failure zone  (b) Potential for the boundaries of the failure zone to change when line pull and line angles change.  (c) Limitations or restrictions for entering or working in the potential failure zone. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
