



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 TEACHING LICENSES 
 584-210-0060 
 Reciprocal Teaching License
 
 
 (1) Purpose of the License: The Reciprocal Teaching License is a license that qualifies its holder to teach prekindergarten through grade 12 Oregon public school district, education service districts, and charter school assignments. The Reciprocal Teaching License is issued to teachers who have completed an educator preparation program and hold an active and valid non-provisional initial or advanced teaching license in another National Association of State Directors of Teacher Education and Certification (NASDTEC) jurisdiction. The purpose of the Reciprocal Teaching License is to allow an out-of-state or out-of-country licensed teacher to transition into the Oregon licensure system based on the credentials they earned in the other jurisdiction. 

 (2) Out of State or Out-of-Country License Reciprocity: An out of state or out-of-country teaching license alone does not authorize a teacher to teach or work as a teacher in Oregon public schools. The out-of-state or out-of-country license is used only as a basis for qualifying for the Reciprocal Teaching License. The out-of-state or out-of-country licensed applicant must apply for and receive the Reciprocal Teaching License or another non-provisional teaching license for which the applicant qualifies prior to employment in any Oregon public school, charter school or education service district. 

 
 NOTE: The out of country licensed applicant may also be eligible to apply for the International Visiting Teacher License. 
 

 (3) Out-of-State License Holders: An applicant must hold a valid and active out-of-state license from a NASDTEC jurisdiction prior to qualifying for an Oregon non-provisional teaching license. If an applicant only holds an expired out-of-state teaching license, the applicant must first reinstate their teaching license from a NASTDEC jurisdiction prior to qualifying for the Reciprocal Teaching License or any other non-provisional Oregon Teaching License. 

 (4) Out-of-State teacher preparation program completers: If an applicant completes a teacher preparation program in another state, the applicant must first obtain a valid and active non-provisional teaching license in that state or another NASDTEC jurisdiction in order to qualify for the Oregon Reciprocal Teaching License. 

 
 NOTE: This provision does not apply to Oregon non-provisional teaching license holders who complete out-of-state endorsement, administrator, or personnel service programs. 
 

 (5) Fully-Qualified Out-of-State License Holders: If an applicant with a valid and active non-provisional out-of-state license fully qualifies for a Preliminary, Professional, Teacher Leader, Substitute or Legacy Teaching License, the applicant may bypass the Reciprocal Teaching License and apply immediately for the other license. In order to qualify for a non-provisional Oregon teaching license upon first application, the applicant must meet all of the requirements in subsections (10) and (11) of this rule. 

 (6) Out-of-country applicants: Applicants prepared or licensed outside the United States may be eligible to qualify for the Reciprocal Teaching License or another teaching license upon evaluation of: 

 (a) Official transcripts from the professional the education preparation program from the other country; 

 (b) Official educator credential or license from the other country. 

 (c) The evaluation of foreign documentation must be completed as provided in OAR 584-200-0090, Preparation in Another Country. 

 (7) Endorsements: Oregon endorsements may not be added to the Reciprocal Teaching License. Subject to Section (11) of this rule, endorsements may be added when the applicant moves to the non-Reciprocal Teaching License. Existing out-of-state or out-of-country endorsements will be added to the Reciprocal Teaching License, or other non-provisional licenses, as provided: 

 (a) Out-of-state applicants holding a valid and active non-provisional license issued by a NASDTEC jurisdiction will be granted endorsements on their new Oregon license based on the endorsement(s) on their valid and active out-of-state license if a similar Commission-adopted endorsement exits., 

 (b) Out-of-country license holders will be granted endorsements based on their out-of-country license if a similar Commission-adopted endorsement exists. The endorsements on the out-of-state license may be evaluated as provided in OAR 584-200-0090, Preparation in Another Country. 

 (c) Endorsements not recognized by the Commission will not be added to the license. 

 (d) To maintain the endorsements when moving from the Reciprocal to the Preliminary or Professional teaching license, the applicant must provide acceptable evidence of content knowledge and pedagogy skills as provided in OAR 584-220-0015. 

 (8) Term of Licensure: The Reciprocal Teaching License is valid for one year and expires one year from the date of issue. It is not renewable. Prior to the expiration of the Reciprocal Teaching License, an applicant must meet the subsequent licensure requirements in subsection (11) of this rule. 

 (9) Assignment and Endorsement Authorization: The Reciprocal Teaching License qualifies the teacher to accept: 

 (a) Any instructional assignment from prekindergarten through grade 12 within the scope of the subject-matter endorsement(s) on the Reciprocal Teaching License. The scope of endorsements will be determined by the National Center for Educational Statistics (NCES) course codes associated with the endorsements as provided by the TSPC Licensure Guide; and 

 (b) Any substitute teaching assignments. 

 (10) Qualifications: To be eligible to apply for a Reciprocal Teaching License, an out-of-state or out-of-country applicant must: 

 (a) Have never held an Oregon non-provisional educator license, or completed an Oregon educator preparation program; 

 
 NOTE: The applicant may have held an Oregon provisional license or registration, including the Restricted Teaching License; Limited Teaching License; American Indian Language; Teaching Associate License; Substitute Teaching License; Restricted Substitute Teaching License; International Visiting Teaching License; and Charter school registration. 
 

 (b) Possess the personal qualifications for licensure including attainment of at least eighteen years of age and possessing good moral character and mental and physical health necessary for employment as an educator; 

 (c) Hold a bachelor's degree or higher from an Approved Institution in the United States, or the foreign equivalent of such degree approved by the Commission. 

 (A) The applicant must submit official transcripts to verify the completion of a bachelor’s degree. 

 (B) An education specialist degree, a master's degree or a doctoral degree from an Approved Institution in the United States validates a non-regionally accredited bachelor's degree for licensure. The applicant must submit official transcripts to verify the completion of the advanced degree. 

 (d) Have completed a teacher preparation program from another National Association of State Directors of Teacher Education and Certification (NASDTEC) jurisdiction or a foreign program evaluated as satisfactory by the Commission. 

 (A) The applicant must submit official transcripts to verify the completion of the teacher preparation program. 

 (B) Completion of alternative route teaching programs resulting in licensure through school districts or other alternative routes are subject to the Executive Director’s or Licensure Director’s approval; 

 (e) Meet one of the following: 

 (A) Hold a valid and active non-provisional teaching license from another NASDTEC jurisdiction valid for unrestricted full time teaching assignments; 

 (B) Have held a teaching license valid in another country. The Commission will determine if the applicant’s official transcripts and teaching credentials from the other country meet Oregon requirements as provided in OAR 584-200-0090, Preparation in Another Country. 

 (f) Complete a background clearance that includes: 

 (A) Furnishing fingerprints (if necessary); 

 (B) Providing satisfactory responses to character questions in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission; and 

 (g) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (11) Subsequent Licensure Requirements: Prior to the expiration of the Reciprocal Teaching License, an applicant must apply for and meet the requirements for a Preliminary, Professional, Teacher Leader or Legacy Teaching License in accordance with the following provisions: 

 (a) The applicant must qualify for a Commission-adopted endorsement by receiving a passing score as currently specified by the Commission on one or more of subject matter tests unless the applicant qualifies for reciprocity or waiver of subject matter tests as provided in OAR 584-220-0015; and 

 (b) The applicant must obtain a passing score on a Commission-approved test of knowledge of U.S. and Oregon civil rights laws and professional ethics. 

 (c) An Emergency Teaching License will not be issued if the holder of the Reciprocal Teaching License fails to meet the requirements of the Preliminary, Professional, or Legacy Teaching License or any Oregon non-provisional teaching license by the end of the one year term. 

 (d) Endorsements added to the Preliminary or Professional Teaching License when an applicant moves from the Reciprocal Teaching License are subject to the requirements at the time of application to add them. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.121 - 342.144 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 21-2023, amend filed 10/23/2023, effective 11/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 8-2020, amend filed 11/23/2020, effective 01/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 12-2015, f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
