



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-1325 
 Training 
 
 The following requirements are in addition to the training requirements of OAR 437-007-0140.  (1) The employer and/or their authorized representative must ensure that all personnel who may be called upon to do wildland fire suppression and/or prescribed fire activities receive Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training as follows:  (a) Once a year, between January 1 and the legal declaration of fire season, for personnel who are employed at the time training is presented.  NOTE 1: Personnel who have previously received Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training need only receive refresher training on those portions of the curriculum outlined in Appendix 7-C that are relevant to the fire suppression activities to which they may be assigned.  NOTE 2: Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training is not required for personnel who are assigned to fire support positions that will not expose them to wildland fire hazards.  (b) Newly hired and/or reassigned personnel who have not received Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training must be trained within 17 days of being assigned or dispatched to wildland fire suppression or prescribed fire activities. In the interim, they may perform wildland fire suppression, or prescribed fire activities provided they work under the direct supervision of a competent person who must:  (A) Brief personnel (prior to starting fire suppression or prescribed fire activities) about the escape route(s), safety zone(s), anticipated fire activity, and what to do if they get separated from the competent person; and  (B) Provide continuous on-the-job supervision; and  (C) Provide on-the-job fire safety training; and  (D) Supervise no more than 5 untrained personnel.  NOTE: When an untrained runner is enroute, direct supervision may be achieved by radio contact provided there is a competent person providing direct supervision at both the pick-up and drop-off points.  (2) Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training must:  (a) Be presented by a qualified person; and  (b) Provide instruction and training on the curriculum outline in Appendix 7-C; and [Appendix not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (c) Be presented in a language and manner that the employee(s) is able to understand.  (3) The employer must keep a current written record of Basic Wildland Fire Safety Training for each employee.  (4) Personnel who are issued fire shelters must receive instructions from a qualified person prior to issue, and at least once a year thereafter, on:  (a) How to inspect and care for the shelter; and  (b) How, when and where to deploy the shelter; and  (c) What a person needs to do in the deployed shelter.  NOTE: When fire shelters are required, an orderly transition for employee training must be consistent with fire suppression needs and employee safety.  [ED. NOTE: Appendices referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 2-2005, f. 5-27-05, cert. ef. 6-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
