



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 COUNSELING AND TREATMENT SERVICES 
 413-060-0440 
 Treatment 
 
 (1) Treatment in specialized offense-specific peer groups is the treatment of choice, and must address aggressive and exploitive behaviors. The family should be a key part of the treatment planning. The treatment is to be geared toward the chronological and developmental needs of the offender. Treatment issues to be addressed for all risk categories include the following:  (a) Substance abuse intervention;  (b) Sex education;  (c) Educational assessment for remedial or special education referrals;  (d) Social skills training;  (e) Assertiveness training;  (f) Anger management;  (g) Victimization issues — (sexual, physical, and emotional) their own and their victims;  (h) Family therapy;  (i) Cognitive restructuring;  (j) Values clarification;  (k) Stress management;  (l) Cycle recognition/self-intervention;  (m) Relaxation/biofeedback.  (2) In addition to the above, if the offender in the medium to high risk category demonstrates assaultive, compulsive, or repetitive acts of sexual offending, then behavioral therapy can be introduced. Also, behavioral therapy can be introduced after cognitive methods have failed.  (3) The decision to utilize aversion therapy should be discussed with the juvenile offender and his/her parent or guardian after other therapies have failed, and if, according to polygraph and plethysmograph examinations, the arousal patterns have not altered. The rationale for this choice should be documented in the case record. The SOSCF director or designee must then provide written consent to proceed. Should the parent/guardian or client refuse to sign, a review hearing should be requested to determine the course of action.  (4) Ongoing polygraph and plethysmograph testing should accompany behavioral therapy on a periodic basis to assess treatment progress. In order to graduate from treatment, the client must successfully “pass” a polygraph test which determines that they are not now offending, have disclosed all of their victims and offenses, and are exercising steps to successfully intervene in their offending cycle. Furthermore, they must also demonstrate reduction in deviant arousal patterns.  (5) Relapse prevention is an essential component to the juvenile’s treatment plan. Whether he/she is placed in or out of the home, the primary parental figures, parole officer, or other significant figure in the juvenile’s life should know and understand his/her assault cycle so as to support the offender in learning to intervene in his/her own cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  HB 2004 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  HB 2004 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SCF 6-1995, f. 12-22-95, cert. ef. 12-29-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
