



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-0325 
 Reservoirs 
 
 (1) The following operating principles apply to reservoirs in the Malheur Basin:  (a) Bully Creek and Warm Springs Reservoirs shall be managed for natural production of the current combination of warmwater species consistent with the Natural Production Policy. Channel catfish stocking shall be maintained to the extent this species does not adversely affect other warmwater game fish populations;  (b) Beulah and Malheur Reservoirs shall be managed for trout by annually stocking with domestic hatchery trout or other appropriate trout species;  (c) Reservoirs less than 150 surface acres shall be managed for trout or for warmwater species. Trout shall be managed by annually stocking with domestic hatchery trout or other appropriate trout species. Warmwater species shall be managed for natural production consistent with the Natural Production Policy;  (d) The species mix currently present in reservoirs less than 150 surface acres may be altered to better use the reservoir production potential or to meet changing public demand;  (e) Participation by the Department in fishery development in private waters is contingent on the availability of public benefits;  (f) Fish management in reservoirs in the Malheur River Basin shall be guided by the statewide Trout Plan and the Warmwater Fish Plan under the basic yield alternative and shall be consistent with the Wild Fish management Policy.  (2) In accordance with these operating principles, it is the objective of the Department to:  (a) Improve warmwater game fish production in Bully Creek and Warm Springs Reservoirs; emphasize largemouth bass, white crappie and yellow perch in Bully Creek Reservoir; emphasize largemouth bass, yellow perch and brown bullhead in Warm Springs Reservoir, and give secondary consideration to channel catfish in both reservoirs;  (b) Improve trout production at Beulah and Malheur Reservoirs;  (c) Improve game fish production in small reservoirs in the Malheur River Basin that have public access;  (d) Use South Fork Reservoir as a source of largemouth bass brood stock. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 81-1990, f. 8-7-90, cert. ef. 8-9-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
