



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 ELECTRICAL CODES AND STANDARDS 
 918-305-0460 
 Grounding 
 
 (1) System substations shall be installed with a grounding grid to limit touch and step potentials to safe levels as recommended by IEEE 80, “Guide for Safety in Substation Grounding.” AC and low-voltage equipment shall be bonded or grounded to this grid, except as otherwise provided for the utility neutral or ground. Calculations and ground resistance test reports for every substation shall be furnished to the division prior to final inspection and maintained by the operating entity.  (2) The service neutral conductor is not required to be bonded to the substation grounding grid, provided that:  (a) A warning sign is posted on the service equipment to provide notice of potential hazards to technical persons who may have access to the service equipment. The notice shall clearly indicate that the neutral is isolated and not grounded;  (b) An isolation barrier is installed over the neutral termination within the service equipment; and  (c) The ground grid is installed in a manner that will demonstrate a ground resistance of 5 ohms or less when tested in accordance with IEEE 81, “Guide for Testing Grounding Systems.”  (3) Free-standing signal system cabinets, bungalows or buildings shall be separately grounded by means of a driven ground electrode or electrodes to obtain ground resistance of 25 ohms or less when tested in accordance with IEEE 81.  (4) 60 Hz, 120-volt AC systems for accessory power or lighting located within station platforms or substations shall meet the requirements of the Electrical Specialty Code.  (5) All service equipment receiving service voltage from the utility shall be posted with warning signs to provide notice of potential hazards to technical persons who may have access to the panel. The notice shall clearly indicate that the neutral is isolated and not grounded.  (6) All fencing located within 10 feet of a metallic railway substation, building, ground grid, bungalow or other structure shall be constructed of nonmetallic material.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.950 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.950 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 7-2000, f. 3-15-00, cert. ef. 4-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
