



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Geologist Examiners 
 Chapter 809 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
 809-025-0020 
 Record Keeping 
 
 (1) Each registrant is responsible for maintaining records that document completion of the continuing education activity requirements of these rules. Documentation shall support all continuing education activity hours claimed. 

 (2) The registrant’s continuing education activity records shall contain at least the following documentation: 

 (a) A log of continuing education activities completed using a Board-provided form and showing: 

 (A) The type of activities claimed; 

 (B) The sponsors, as applicable; 

 (C) Contact information for the sponsors, as applicable; 

 (D) The location and date of the activities; 

 (E) The instructor or speaker names and titles, as applicable; and 

 (F) The number of hours spent completing the activities and the continuing education hours earned. 

 (b) Attendance verification records in the form of completion certificates or other documents provided by the sponsor and supporting evidence of attendance such as: 

 (A) Certificates of completion; 

 (B) Signed attendance receipts; 

 (C) Paid receipts; or 

 (D) A copy of a final attendee list. 

 (c) If proof of attendance, as described in (2)(b) of this rule, is not provided by the sponsor and is not made available upon request made by the registrant to the sponsor, then a copy of the sign-in sheet, which includes the date, title, and presenter, along with the agenda may be submitted to verify participation for purposes of documenting continuing education activity credit. 

 (d) In the absence of the documentation described in (2)(b) and (2)(c) or for a self-directed educational activity, described in 809-025-0015(2)(d), the registrant is required to prepare and retain a written summary of the continuing education activity including, at a minimum, the following information: 

 (A) A brief description of the activity; 

 (B) The date(s) and hours of the activity; 

 (C) The location of the activity; 

 (D) The continuing education activity hours claimed; and 

 (E) A summary of how the activity related to the public practice of geology, as defined in ORS 672.505(7), and maintained, improved, expanded, or developed the professional knowledge or skills of the registrant. 

 (3) The registrant shall retain continuing education activity documentation for a period of at least three (3) years. The registrant does not need to submit this documentation at the time of registration renewal. However, documentation shall be made available to the Board in a timely manner upon notice of selection for audit or upon other written request from the Board. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.310 & ORS 672.588 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 672.588 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BGE 3-2020, adopt filed 06/03/2020, effective 01/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
