



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Medical Imaging 
 Chapter 337 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSURE 
 337-010-0031 
 Requirements for LXMO Permit Program Sponsors
 
 
 (1) Instructors, program directors, or authorized school officials of Core Module or Radiographic Procedure Module classes must provide the Board with the names of all students who have successfully completed the didactic portions of the LXMO permit program. The list must indicate the specific didactic portion(s) of the LXMO permit program the student has successfully completed and the completion date. 

 (2) Retention of Student Records: instructors, program directors, or authorized school officials of Core Module or Radiographic Procedure Module classes and practical experience evaluators must retain student grades and attendance records for a period of two years. 

 (3) LXMO permit program sponsors must annually submit to the Board for review an outline of the LXMO permit program. The outline along with the names of all instructors teaching in the program must be submitted to the Board office no later than July 1 each year. The plan must include details on the respective school’s compliance with Paragraph (5). In addition to a written outline, and as a condition of Board approval, each LXMO permit program site shall be inspected every two years or as needed by a Board member or an authorized representative of the Board. The site visit shall include an inspection of the physical premises on which LXMO permit programs are conducted and interviews with students currently enrolled in the LXMO permit program. The Board may obtain a list of students and respective clinical experience sites from each school, and may make inquiries or site visits to clinical experience sites to assure that temporary permit holders are being properly trained and supervised.  Each LXMO permit program must provide oversight of the clinical experience component for a specific number of exams for each anatomic area in which the student completed and passed coursework at an approved school. For any anatomic area in which the temporary permit holder is permitted to perform under supervision, the following minimum number of exams must be included. The minimum number of exams must include at least one of each of the “required” exams as specified in the Board’s most recently approved version of the Clinical Demonstration Checklist. Each exam must include the minimum diagnostic series, established in accordance with the July 2018 edition of the Board of Medical Imaging’s Practical Experience Evaluation Requirements: 

 (a) Chest: 

 (A) Required: 1 exam (2 views) 

 (B) Total of all views to be completed, including required and elective: 5 

 (b) Extremities: 

 (A) Required: 11 exams (25 views) 

 (B) Total of all views to be completed, including required and elective: 29 

 (c) Skull/Sinus: 

 (A) Required: 4 exams (11 views) 

 (B) Total of all views to be completed, including required and elective: 15 

 (d) Spine: 

 (A) Required: 3 exams (9 views) 

 (B) Total of all views to be completed, including required and elective: 16 

 (e) Podiatric: 

 (A) Required: 4 exams (9 views) 

 (B) Total of all views to be completed, including required and elective: 16 

 (5) The clinical experience component must have a designated clinical coordinator who will minimally fulfill the following functions: 

 (a) Complete a clinical experience agreement for each student, formalizing the responsibilities of the school, the student, and the clinical experience site; 

 (b) Provide orientation to students regarding clinical experience requirements and expectations; 

 (c) Placement of students in clinical experience sites, for students who are not already employed at their clinical experience site; 

 (d) Assure proper supervision of temporary permit holders during clinical procedures, in compliance with OBMI statutes and rules; and 

 (e) Assure proper evaluation of practical clinical experience requirements. 

 (6) A resource library shall be maintained at the program site and the resource materials shall be made available to students. 

 (7) Prior to the first class meeting, Board-approved LXMO permit programs must provide students with clear statements describing the course and program policies. These must include, but are not limited to information regarding the following: 

 (a) Student costs including tuition, books, lab fees, LXMO permit examination fees, LXMO permit application and renewal fees; 

 (b) Tuition refund policies; 

 (c) How the practical experience requirement will be fulfilled including a clear explanation of the responsibilities to be assumed by the program and the responsibilities that will be assumed by the student; 

 (d) Employment guarantees, if any; 

 (e) Course outlines and minimum hourly requirements for each section of the course; 

 (f) The LXMO permit examination process including applications, deadlines for filing for the examination, and examination fees; 

 (8) Failure by the LXMO permit program sponsor to submit the outline required under this section or to cooperate in the site visit procedure shall constitute grounds for the Board's refusal to approve the program. 

 (9) If the Board's inspection of a LXMO permit program site reveals that corrective action needs to be taken, the Board or its representative will so notify the program director. The program director shall respond in writing to the Board within 20 days of receiving the information. The response shall include a description of the corrective action that will be taken. 

 (10) Any LXMO Permit course of instruction, approved by the Board in order to satisfy the Board's requirement for didactic and clinical experience portions of the LXMO Permit course of instruction, shall be made generally available to the public for purposes of enrollment in and completion of the course, unless the Board, for good cause, decides otherwise. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 688.555(1) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 688.515 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMI 7-2020, amend filed 07/28/2020, effective 07/28/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMI 4-2018, amend filed 10/30/2018, effective 01/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BRT 1-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-15-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BRT 2-2006, f. 12-15-06, cert. ef. 1-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BRT 6-1998, f. & cert. ef. 10-16-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RT 3-1990, f. & cert. ef. 11-7-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RT 1-1989, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
