



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-1810 
 Allocation of Service Territory 
 
 (1) Any water utility may apply for an order designating the territory it serves adequately and exclusively as its exclusive service territory. The application must include:  (a) The information required by OAR 860-036-1100(2);  (b) The water utility's business organization, i.e., corporation, partnership, limited partnership, sole proprietorship, association, etc.;  (c) The name and address of each corporate officer, director, partner, and all other persons owning an interest in the water utility;  (d) A statement showing the financial and technical ability of the water utility to provide service to the territory;  (e) A detailed map of the water utility’s existing lines and facilities;  (f) A detailed map of the water utility's current service territory. The water utility must identify the source of the map, which may include a GIS map, city or county map, tax lot map, or plat map;  (g) A written description of the water utility's current service territory. The description may be a legal description or may reference township, range, and section; interstates, state roads, and local streets; rivers, streams, and major bodies of water; and recorded plats or lots, tracts, or other recorded instruments identifying permanent fixtures references;  (h) Evidence that the water utility owns the land upon which the water utility facilities are located, or a copy of an agreement that provides for the continued use of the land, such as an easement or lease;  (i) A schedule showing the number of customers currently served by class and meter size. If the service area is not built out, indicate the number of proposed customers expected to be served when the current service territory is fully occupied;  (j) The name and address of the nearest municipalities, the county, any known planning councils or governmental authorities having concern with the application, and all known water utilities and community water supply systems in the general area of the service territory the water utility is seeking; and  (k) A copy of the customer notice of application required under section (2) of this rule and a complete customer mailing list.  (2) Within 15 calendar days of the filing date of the application for exclusive service territory, a water utility must provide written notice to each customer affected by the application. The notice must include:  (a) The information required by OAR 860-036-1100(2)  (b) The purpose of the notice;  (c) An accurate and detailed written description of the territory applied for;  (d) The date the filing was submitted to the Commission;  (e) A statement that customers may file a protest with the Commission; and  (f) The contact information for the Consumer Services Section provided in OAR 860 001-0020(2). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756, 757 & 758 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 758.300-758.320 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
