



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Energy Facility Siting Council - Chapter 345 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 PROCEDURES GOVERNING COUNCIL AND DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY PROCEEDINGS, INCLUDING SITE CERTIFICATE HEARINGS 
 345-015-0320 
 Public Hearing Procedures for Special Criteria Facilities 
 
 (1) The Council shall appoint a hearing officer to conduct the public hearing described in OAR 345-015-0310(22). The Council may appoint a Council member, an employee of the Department of Energy or other person.  (2) The duties of the hearing officer are to:  (a) Ensure a full, fair and impartial hearing.  (b) Facilitate presentation of evidence.  (c) Comply with statutory time limits on Council decisions.  (d) Maintain order.  (e) Assist the Council in making its decision.  (f) Prepare a summary of the evidence presented on the record of the public hearing addressing the factual and legal issues raised in the hearing, including findings related to the credibility of witnesses, as necessary. The hearing officer shall submit the summary and the record of the hearing to the Council within 7 days after the close of the record.  (3) During the public hearing, the Department shall present the following information either orally or by written handout:  (a) A description of the proposed facility.  (b) A description of the Council standards, including those standards on which the Council may base site certificate conditions.  (c) An explanation of the application process, including the means and opportunities for the general public to participate in the process.  (4) At the commencement of the public hearing, the hearing officer shall state that:  (a) The record for public comment on the application will close at the conclusion of the hearing and that failure to raise an issue in person or in writing prior to the close of the record with sufficient specificity to afford the decision maker an opportunity to respond to the issue, precludes consideration of the issue in a contested case or by a court on judicial review of the Council’s decision.  (b) To raise an issue with sufficient specificity, a person must present facts that support the person’s position on the issue.  (c) The hearing is the only opportunity for the public to make a factual record for review and that persons having objection to the proposed order must appear at the hearing in person or in writing and present factual evidence, including any expert testimony, and legal argument.  (5) Any person may present information regarding the pending application without administration of an oath.  (6) The hearing officer shall record all presentations made during the public hearing, and the presentations are part of the decision record for the application. The hearing officer shall maintain a record of all exhibits received and any rulings made during the course of the hearing.  (7) If the applicant requests an opportunity to present written evidence, arguments or testimony as described in OAR 345-015-0310, the hearing officer shall leave the record open for that purpose only for a specified period not to exceed 14 days after the date of the hearing or any continuance.  (8) The hearing officer is authorized to carry out the duties assigned in this rule, including but not limited to:  (a) Adopting special rules of procedure to govern the proceeding.  (b) Setting reasonable time limits for oral presentations.  (c) Receiving evidence and ruling on offers of proof.  (d) Requiring persons to submit written testimony in lieu of oral testimony if the hearing officer determines that a reasonable opportunity for oral presentation has been provided.  (e) Asking questions of commenters.  (f) Requiring expert witnesses to submit a statement of qualifications in writing  (g) Continuing the hearing during a period not exceeding 7 days from the commencement of the hearing. Notwithstanding this time limit, the hearing officer shall leave the record open for the purpose described in section (7).  (h) Continuing the hearing beyond any continuance allowed under subsection (g) for the limited purpose of allowing the applicant reasonable time to review written material submitted to the record before making the request described in section (7).  (i) Taking any other action consistent with the statutes governing expedited review of special criteria facilities and the applicable Council's rules.  (9) A request by the applicant for a contested case as provided in OAR 345-015-0310(23)(b) does not suspend the public hearing, and the hearing officer shall continue to accept evidence from interested persons until the close of the hearing.  (10) Notwithstanding the provisions of OAR 137-003-0055(1), following the issuance of a notice of the public hearing, the hearing officer shall enter into the record the substance of any significant contact with the applicant, the Department of Energy staff or a commenter from that point forward concerning facts in the record.  (11) The Council may remove a hearing officer if it determines that the hearing officer is not competent, is biased or is otherwise unable to conduct the proceeding.  (12) If any person engages in conduct that interferes with the hearing officer's duty in connection with any aspect of a public hearing or fails to obey an order of the hearing officer, the hearing officer may suspend the hearing or order such person excluded from the hearing temporarily or permanently. If the hearing officer issues an order permanently excluding a person from further participation in a public hearing, the hearing officer shall issue the order in writing and shall state in the order the grounds for the order. The order is final unless the person subject to the order submits an appeal to the Council within seven days after the date of the order.  (13) Upon the request of a governing body of a city, county or tribe, the Department of Energy shall offer, and the hearing officer shall receive in evidence, a certified copy of a resolution of the governing body. The hearing officer shall receive such resolutions subject to rebuttal as to the authenticity of the resolution or the circumstances surrounding its procurement. The hearing officer shall receive such resolutions only for the purpose of showing the expression of official action of the resolving body with respect to matter contained in the resolution. Such resolutions are not proof of facts related to the subject of the resolution. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.373 & 469.470 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.370 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2007, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-3-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2002, f. & cert. ef. 4-3-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
