



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 LAND APPLICATION OF DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY BIOSOLIDS, BIOSOLIDS DERIVED PRODUCTS, AND DOMESTIC SEPTAGE 
 340-050-0080 
 Best Management Practices for Site Selection and the Use and Application of Bulk Biosolids and Domestic Septage: Application of Biosolids and Domestic Septage
 
 
 (1) Biosolids analyses offer a guide to determine the annual application rate for a particular crop; ascertain whether cumulative pollutant tracking is required; and establish that solids are sufficiently stable to comply with pathogen and vector attraction reduction standards required under 40 CFR §503.32 and 40 CFR §503.33, respectively. 

 (2) The application of biosolids or domestic septage on agricultural land should be managed to utilize the fertilizer and organic matter value to the maximum extent possible. The recommended rate of biosolids or domestic septage application is normally based on the nitrogen requirement of the crop grown and will vary depending on the nitrogen content of the solids. 

 (3) Crop nitrogen requirements are used routinely to determine application rates for commercial fertilizer and these figures are readily available from state or county Extension Service offices. Applying biosolids and domestic septage within these limits helps ensure that solids nitrogen will be utilized for plant growth and that excess nitrogen which could leach into groundwater will not be of concern. 

 (4) Exceeding crop nitrogen requirements may occasionally be justified on a temporary basis in order to achieve rapid soil improvement or to prolong beneficial effects. Biosolids applications exceeding normal crop nitrogen requirements may be approved on a case-by-case basis for reclamation or soil improvement, if justification for a single high rate application is provided to the Department. 

 (a) Where a site has previously been amended with biosolids at soil improvement or reclamation rates, documentation of background soil nitrate-nitrogen (NO3-N) shall be submitted for Department approval prior to the application of additional biosolids; 

 (b) Soil samples shall be collected and tested according to protocols published by Oregon State University and the American Society of Agronomy. 

 (5) Sites proposed for routine annual application at agronomic rates must periodically be assessed to determine the impact of nitrogen from biosolids and other sources. 

 (a) The criteria for requiring evaluation or performance monitoring [e.g., soil testing for carry-over nitrate-nitrogen (NO3-N)] will be biosolids applications exceeding 2 out of 3 successive years at agronomic rates; 

 (b) Soil samples shall be collected and tested according to protocols published by Oregon State University and the American Society of Agronomy. 

 [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468B.095 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 55-2018, minor correction filed 04/03/2018, effective 04/03/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 18-1995, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 15-1984, f. & ef. 8-21-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
