



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Equity and Inclusion Division - Chapter 950 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 STANDARDS FOR HEALTH CARE INTERPRETER REGISTRY ENROLLMENT AND REQUIREMENTS TO WORK WITH QUALIFIED OR CERTIFIED HEALTH CARE INTERPRETERS 
 950-050-0130 
 Denial, Revocation, Suspension, Refusal to Renew, Progressive Disciplinary Actions, and Credential Status Reinstatement for Certification and Qualification 
 
 (1) The Authority shall deny, revoke, suspend or refuse to renew a letter of certification or qualification if: 
(a) An applicant for an initial certification or qualification fails to meet the eligibility standards of OAR 950-050-0040. 
(b) An applicant for certification or qualification renewal fails to comply with the requirements of OAR 950-050-0120. 
(c) An applicant submits information that cannot be verified. 
(d) An applicant engages in conduct or practices found by the Authority to be in violation of the National Council on Interpreting in Health Care Code of Ethics, the National Council on Interpreting in Health Care Standards of Practice, or the Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf (RID) Code of Professional Conduct, as applicable. 
(2) The Authority may deny, revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew a certification or qualification, or impose remedial education or corrective actions on a renewal applicant or an individual on the central registry , if the individual engages in any of the following conduct: 
(a) Representing that the applicant or individual is an Oregon certified or qualified health care interpreter without having been issued a valid letter of certification or qualification by the Authority. 
(b) Knowingly giving false information to the Authority. 
(c) Violating the credentialing process by: 
(A) Falsifying or misrepresenting education credentials or other information required for admission to an evaluation or assessment. 
(B) Having an impersonator take an evaluation or assessment on the applicant or enrollee’s behalf. 
(C) Impersonating an applicant or individual. 
(d) Having a credential to provide health care interpreting services in another state, territory or country, or issued by another certifying entity denied, revoked or suspended based on behavior by the individual similar to prohibited acts described in this rule. 
(e) Allowing the use of an Authority issued credential by a non-credentialed person. 
(f) Presenting another person’s credential as the applicant or enrollee’s own credential. 
(g) Impersonating another Oregon certified or qualified HCI. 
(h) Practicing health care interpreting services under a false or assumed name. 
(i) Using or attempting to use a credential that has been revoked, suspended, or lapsed. 
(j) Practicing or offering to practice beyond the scope of the National Code of Ethics or National Standards of Practice for Interpreters in Health Care, or the Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf (RID) Code of Professional Conduct, as applicable. 
(k) Engaging in false, deceptive or misleading advertising of the applicant or enrollee’s certification or qualification credentials. 
(A) False, deceptive or misleading advertising includes but is not limited to advertising health care interpreting services using the terms “Oregon qualified” or “Oregon certified” health care interpreter in any private or public communication or publication when not credentialed by the Authority. 
(B) Advertising includes telephone directory listings, business cards, social media networking, or any other source of public communication. 
(l) Failing to comply or cooperate with an Authority request in any way, including but not limited to a credentialing action or disciplinary proceeding, including: 
(A) Failing to submit requested papers or documents. 
(B) Failing to submit a written response to a complaint filed with the Authority. 
(C) Failing to respond to requests for information issued by the Authority. 
(3) The Authority may impose progressive disciplinary actions based on the severity, frequency, and nature of the violation. Disciplinary actions may include one or more of the following, but is not limited to: 
(a) Issuance of a disciplinary letter of concern identifying the conduct and advising the individual of necessary corrective action. 
(b) Requirement to complete remedial education or training relevant to the violation, including but not limited to ethics, standards of practice, or professional conduct. 
(c) Revocation of qualification or certification, resulting in removal from the OHA central registry, subject to reinstatement under subsection (4) of this rule. 
(4) An individual whose qualification or certification has been revoked may apply for reinstatement, no sooner than twenty-four months from the effective date of the revocation, by submitting a written request to the Authority. The individual must demonstrate what they have done to correct the violation or violations that led to the revocation and ensure that future misconduct will not occur. The request must include: 
(a) A statement acknowledging the conduct that led to the disciplinary action and demonstrating understanding of the violation. 
(b) Evidence of rehabilitation or corrective action taken, including but not limited to completion of any required remedial education or training. 
(c) Documentation of compliance with all current eligibility, application, and renewal requirements under these rules. 
(d) If required by the Authority, successful completion of a re-assessment or evaluation to demonstrate continued competency. 
(e) Letters of reference or professional support, if requested by the Authority. 
(f) Completed Authority-approved, fingerprint-based national criminal background check, if requested by the Authority. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.558 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  413.558 & ORS 413.556 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EID 3-2025, amend filed 10/24/2025, effective 11/01/2025 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OEI 9-2023, minor correction filed 05/02/2023, effective 05/02/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 16-2023, renumbered from 333-002-0190, filed 04/14/2023, effective 04/14/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 48-2022, amend filed 04/27/2022, effective 07/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 18-2016, f. 6-9-16, cert. ef. 7-1-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 2-2011, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 18-2006, f. & cert. ef. 8-2-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
