



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 CONSOLIDATED PERMITTING OF MINING OPERATIONS 
 632-037-0050 
 General Information 
 
 The General Information section of a consolidated application shall include but not be limited to the following:  (1) The name, mailing address and phone number of the applicant and a registered agent for the applicant.  (2) The name(s) and address(es) of all owners of the surface and mineral estate.  (3) The legal structure (e.g., corporation, partnership, individual) of the applicant as filed in the business registry with the Secretary of State and the legal address of the applicant.  (4) The proposed starting date and expected life of the proposed mining operation.  (5) The name and location of the proposed facility.  (6) The location of existing and proposed roads.  (7) Appropriate maps, aerial photographs, cross sections, plans, design drawings and documentation of appropriate scale may be required by the technical review team. The applicant may contact the technical review team for recommendations regarding scale and amount of detail required. The applicant may be required to submit extra copies of materials to be circulated to other agencies. Information that may typically be required on maps, aerial photographs or design drawings includes but is not limited to:  (a) Permit area lateral extent and proposed depth of excavation;  (b) Mine location;  (c) Waste rock, ore storage, subgrade ore or overburden stockpile locations;  (d) Processing facility locations;  (e) All other facility locations;  (f) Topsoil stockpile locations;  (g) Typical cross sections, including but not limited to, the pit, major facilities, cut and fill slopes and other disturbed areas;  (h) Plan views and profiles, including but not limited to, the pit, major facilities, cut and fill slopes and other disturbed areas;  (i) Existing watercourses and ponds;  (j) Interim watercourses and ponds;  (k) Reconstructed watercourse and ponds;  (l) Proposed post-mining topography;  (m) Property lines;  (n) General ore body location and area extent.  (8) Written evidence that the surface estate and mineral estate owners concur with the proposed reclamation plan and that they will allow the Department access to complete reclamation within the permit area if the permittee fails to comply with the approved reclamation plan. If the applicant can document a legal right to mine without the consent of the surface owner, and the applicant can ensure that the Department will have a right to enter upon the permit area to complete the reclamation within the permit area if the permittee fails to complete the approved reclamation plan, the Department may issue an operating permit. If the proposed mine is located on federal land, the requirement of this section can be satisfied by documentation from the federal government verifying that the land is open to mineral exploration and development. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 517.750 - 517.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.971 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DGMI 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 2-1991, f. & cert. ef. 10-11-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
