



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Landscape Architect Board 
 Chapter 804 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 QUALIFICATIONS FOR REGISTRATION 
 804-022-0005 
 Initial Landscape Architect Registration
 
 
 (1) An individual currently not licensed or registered in another U.S. state or territory may apply to the Board for an initial registration as a Landscape Architect. 

 (2) Applicants for initial registration are required to complete an oral examination with the Board. The oral examination takes place at a public meeting of the Board and covers the Board statutes and rules that apply to landscape architecture practice in Oregon. The examination is given on a pass – fail basis. 

 (3) The application for initial registration is also the application for oral examination and must be submitted no later than 15 business days prior to the Board meeting at which the applicant wants to complete the oral examination. For purposes of this rule, business day means any day in which the Board office is open and excludes weekends and state government holidays. 

 (4) The application must include the following: 

 (a) Completed and signed application form; 

 (b) Application Fee; and 

 (c) Sufficient information to demonstrate that the applicant meets Board standards for examination, education, and work experience under subsections (6), (7), or (8) of this rule. 

 (A) The applicant may submit a CLARB Council Record to demonstrate the examination, education, and work experience qualifications. Information presented on the CLARB Council Record is subject to verification by the Board. The Board may request additional documentation or information from the applicant as the Board or its staff deem necessary for verification of the applicant’s qualifications. 

 (B) Instead of using a CLARB Council Record, the applicant may have documentation of examination, education, and work experience provided to the Board by other qualifying, verified sources. 

 (C) An application is deemed incomplete until the applicant has provided all requested documentation and information and paid the application fee. 

 (5) All pathways to registration require 8 years of qualifying experience. 

 (6) Standard Registration Path, LAAB/LAAC Degree: A minimum of 8 years of landscape architecture experience is required for registration, with 5 years of education experience granted for any LAAB or LAAC degree and 3 years of qualifying work experience required as defined in this rule. 

 (a) Examination: Passage of the Landscape Architect Registration Examination (LARE) or the equivalent from previous versions of the national examination is required. The applicant must verify passage of all sections of the national examination through scores provided to the Board by CLARB or the appropriate licensure board. 

 (b) Education: A degree from a LAAB or LAAC accredited university program is required. The applicant must provide an official transcript to verify award of a LAAB or LAAC degree if not applying with a CLARB Council Record that contains a verified transcript. 

 (c) Work Experience: The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years of work experience under the direct supervision of a licensed or registered Landscape Architect. 

 (A) The applicant must provide a work history summary and documentation that verifies the work experience. 

 (B) Up to 2 years of the 3 years of this work experience may be under the direct supervision of  a licensed or registered Professional Engineer qualified by education or experience in the specific technical field of Civil Engineering or Architect; 

 (7) Non LAAB/LAAC Degree Path: A minimum of 8 years of landscape architecture experience is required for registration, with 5 years of experience from the combination of a degree and work experience used to meet the Board’s education standard under OAR 804-010-0010 and then with an additional 3 years of qualifying work experience required as defined in this rule. 

 (a) Examination: Passage of the Landscape Architect Registration Examination (LARE) or the equivalent from previous versions of the national examination. The applicant must verify passage of all sections of the national examination through scores provided to the Board by CLARB or the appropriate licensure board. 

 (b) Education: In the absence of a degree from a LAAB or LAAC accredited university program, the applicant must demonstrate 5 years of credit for education and experience combined as specified in OAR 804-010-0010. 

 (A) The applicant must provide an official transcript to verify award of a degree if not applying with a CLARB Council Record that contains a verified transcript. The applicant must also provide a work history summary and documentation that verifies the work experience. 

 (B) Work experience used to satisfy the education requirement cannot be used towards the work experience requirement of (7)(c) of this rule. 

 (c) Work Experience: The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years of work experience under the direct supervision of a licensed or registered Landscape Architect. 

 (A) The applicant must provide a work history summary and documentation that verifies the work experience. 

 (B) Up to 2 years of the 3 years of this work experience may be under the direct supervision of a licensed or registered Professional Engineer qualified by education or experience in the specific technical field of competency in Civil Engineering or Architect; 

 (8) No Degree Path: A minimum of 8 years of qualifying landscape architecture experience is required for registration. 

 (a) Examination: Passage of the Landscape Architect Registration Examination (LARE) or the equivalent from previous versions of the national examination is required. The applicant must verify passage of all sections of the national examination through scores provided to the Board by CLARB or the appropriate licensure board. 

 (b) Experience In Lieu of Education: In the absence of any degree, the applicant must demonstrate 5 years of work experience under the direct supervision of a licensed or Registered Landscape Architect to satisfy the Board education requirements as per OAR 804-010-0020. 

 (A) The applicant must provide a work history summary and work experience verification forms. 

 (B) Experience used to satisfy this requirement cannot be used towards the work experience requirement of (8)(c) of this rule. 

 (c) Work Experience: The applicant must demonstrate a minimum of 3 years of work experience under the direct supervision of a licensed or Registered Landscape Architect. 

 (A) The applicant must provide a work history summary and documentation that verifies the work experience. 

 (B) Up to 2 years of the 3 years of this work experience may be under the direct supervision of a licensed or registered Professional Engineer qualified by education or experience in the specific technical field of Civil Engineering or Architect; 

 (9) The initial date of registration shall be the date of the meeting during which the applicant passes the oral examination and the Board approves the application for registration. 

 (10) Payment of the registration fee will be required before the Board will finalize and issue registration. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.335(5), 670.310, ORS 671.325, 671.335 & 671.415 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 671.325, 671.335 & ORS 671.316 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAB 2-2025, amend filed 11/17/2025, effective 12/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAB 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 12-12-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAB 3-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 6-20-13 thru 12-17-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAB 1-2012, f. 5-17-12, cert. ef. 6-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LAB 1-2007, f. & cert. ef. 4-27-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
