



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 CONDUCT OF BOUT - MUAY THAI/ KICKBOXING 
 230-130-0620 
 Penalizing a Competitor 
 
 (1) The referee may penalize any competitor who fouls an opponent during a bout, by deducting points from said competitors score, whether such foul or fouls are intentional or unintentional. However, the referee shall use discretion in determining the number of points, if any, chargeable against the competitor in each instance, depending upon the severity or harmlessness of the foul and its effect upon the opponent. The referee shall indicate on the official scorecard supplied by the authorized representative of the superintendent, the number of points taken away from a competitor in any and all rounds in which the referee may find it necessary to charge a competitor with such loss. The referee shall, at the conclusion of each round, notify the judges of the number of points to be deducted in accordance with this determination. 

 (2) When necessary to deduct points because of fouls or other infractions of the rules, the referee may warn the offender and at the end of the round notify both competitors of any penalties which may be assessed against either competitor. 

 (3) Points deducted for any foul or infraction of the rules shall be deducted in the round in which they occur. No competitor shall be penalized in a later round by virtue of a previous foul or infraction of the rules. 

 (4) The referee may disqualify a competitor for persistent fouling, in which case the referee must explain the disqualification to an authorized representative of the superintendent. 

 (5) Mouthpiece Replacement: 

 (a) Should a competitor lose a mouthpiece during a round, the bout will be stopped, the mouthpiece may be washed and replaced. No competitor shall be allowed to continue without a mouthpiece; 

 (b) A competitor may be penalized by deduction of a point form their score for losing their mouthpiece.  A deduction of points is at the discretion of the referee. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 13-2018, adopt filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
