



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 39 NET METERING RULES 
 860-039-0025 
 Application for Net Metering Interconnection
 
 
 (1) An application for interconnection review will be submitted on a standard form, available from the public utility and posted on the public utility’s website. The application form will require the following types of information: 

 (a) The name of the applicant and the public utility involved; 

 (b) The type and specifications of the net metering facility; 

 (c) The level of interconnection review sought; e.g., Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 4; 

 (d) The contractor who will install the net metering facility; 

 (e) Equipment certifications; 

 (f) The anticipated date the net metering facility will be operational; and 

 (g) Other information that the utility deems is necessary to determine compliance with these net metering rules. 

 (2) Within three business days after receiving an application for Tier 1 or Tier 2 interconnection review, the public utility will provide written or electronic mail notice to the applicant that it received the application and whether the application is complete. An application for interconnection is deemed complete when the public utility receives the information required by this rule. If the application is incomplete, the written notice will include a list of all of the information needed to complete the application. The applicant must provide the listed information within 10 business days of receipt of the list, or the application is deemed withdrawn. 

 (3) An applicant will retain its original queue position for an interconnection request if the applicant resubmits its application at a higher tier of review within 30 business days of a utility’s denial of the application at a lower tier of review. 

 (4) Each public utility will designate an employee or office from which an applicant can obtain basic application forms and information through an informal process. On request, the public utility must provide all relevant forms, documents, and technical requirements for submittal of a complete application for interconnection review under these net metering rules, as well as specific information necessary to contact the public utility representatives assigned to review the application. 

 (5) On request, the public utility must meet with an applicant who qualifies for Tier 2 or Tier 4 interconnection review to assist them in preparing the application. 

 (6) A public utility will not be responsible for the cost of determining the rating of equipment owned by a customer-generator or of equipment owned by other local customers. 

 (7) At the time of application, an applicant may choose to simultaneously submit an executed public utility's standard form interconnection agreement. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, ORS 756 & ORS 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & ORS 757.300 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-2024, amend filed 04/09/2024, effective 04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 8-2007, f. & cert. ef. 7-27-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
