



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 47 MODEL RULES PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS FOR GOODS OR SERVICES 
 137-047-0720 
 Protests and Judicial Review of Multi-Tiered and Multistep Solicitations 
 
 (1) Purpose. An Affected Offeror may protest exclusion from the Competitive Range or from subsequent tiers or steps of a solicitation in accordance with the applicable Solicitation Document. When such a protest is permitted by the Solicitation Document, then pursuant to ORS 279B.420(3)(f), before seeking judicial review, an Affected Offeror must file a Written protest with the Contracting Agency and exhaust all administrative remedies.  (2) Basis for Protest. An Affected Offeror may protest its exclusion from a tier or step of competition only if the Offeror is Responsible and submitted a Responsive Offer and but for the Contracting Agency’s mistake in evaluating the Offeror’s or other Offerors’ Offers, the protesting Offeror would have been eligible to participate in the next tier or step of competition. (For example, the protesting Offeror must claim it is eligible for inclusion in the Competitive Range if all ineligible higher-scoring Offerors are removed from consideration, and that those ineligible Offerors are ineligible for inclusion in the Competitive Range because: their Proposals were not Responsive, or the Contracting Agency committed a substantial violation of a provision in the Solicitation Document or of an applicable Procurement statute or administrative rule, and the protesting Offeror was unfairly evaluated and would have, but for such substantial violation, been included in the Competitive Range.)  (3) Delivery. Unless otherwise specified in the Solicitation Document, an Affected Offeror must deliver a Written protest to the Contracting Agency within seven (7) Days after issuance of the notice of the Competitive Range or notice of subsequent tiers or steps.  (4) Content of Protest. The Affected Offeror's protest shall be in Writing and must specify the grounds upon which the protest is based.  (5) Contracting Agency Response. The Contracting Agency shall not consider an Affected Offeror’s multi-tiered or multistep solicitation protest submitted after the timeline established for submitting such protest under this rule, or such different time period as may be provided in the Solicitation Document. The Contracting Agency shall issue a Written disposition of the protest in a timely manner. If the Contracting Agency upholds the protest, in whole or in part, the Contracting Agency may in its sole discretion either issue an Addendum under OAR 137-047-0430 reflecting its disposition or cancel the Procurement or solicitation under 137-047-0660.  (6) Judicial Review. Judicial review of the Contracting Agency’s decision relating to a multi-tiered or multistep solicitation protest shall be in accordance with ORS 279B.420. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279B.060 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
