



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DISTRICTS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL RECORDS 
 166-400-0065 
 Transportation Records 
 
 (1) Bus Driver Records Records document the status and conditions of employment of school bus drivers. Records may include but are not limited to lists of drivers; driving permit and license information; first aid certification; driver training records, examinations, and skill evaluations; change of employment status records; and related correspondence and documentation. Records may also contain copies of physical examinations, accident reports, and insurance documentation. Records may supplement the personnel files of the bus driver. SEE ALSO Employee Personnel Records in the Personnel Records section. Minimum retention: 4 years after school year in which records were created  (2) Bus Incident and Vandalism Reports Records document reports of vandalism and other incidents occurring on or near school buses. Reports are submitted by the bus drivers and are used to determine action to be taken. Reports consist of a narrative account of the incident; student discipline referral form which notifies schools of disciplinary problems; and related documentation. Student behavioral records may be transferred to the student’s education record. Minimum retention: 1 year after school year in which records were created  (3) Bus Schedule and Route Records Records document the process of establishing and monitoring bus routes and schedules. Records may include but are not limited to bus route reports providing stop to stop directions for bus drivers; driver input forms detailing changes in stop times, students dropped, safety problems, and other changes to the bus schedule; surveys of alternative routes to be used during inclement weather; reports listing stops and stop times; tiering reports which include bus lines and routes, first and last scheduled stops, and start and finish times for each route; transportation logs; and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain annual bus route reports: 5 years after school year in which records were created (b) Retain all other records: 1 year after school year in which records were created  (4) Bus Service Records Records document the school bus service provided by the school district. Records may include but are not limited to dispatch files containing correspondence, reports, daily transportation forms, driver input forms, bus stop deactivation notices, bus schedule change notices, and similar documentation; release statements by parents of special education students releasing the district from responsibility for students left unattended at a bus stop; requests for school bus service for students normally ineligible for service; quarterly reports on student transportation operations including information on vehicle utilization, student loads, and vehicle distribution; transportation requirement forms requesting changes in transportation services provided by contractors or district fleet; and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: (a) Retain quarterly reports: 10 years after school year in which records were created (b) Retain release forms: 3 years after school year in which records were created (c) Retain all other records: 1 year after school year in which records were created  (5) Fuel Records Records documenting the amount of gasoline, diesel, and oil used by agency-owned vehicles. Often includes logs, reports, and related documents. Minimum retention: 2 years  (6) Transportation Complaint Reports Records document complaints relating to students, drivers, schedules, or other school bus transportation problems. Records may include but are not limited to complaint forms, correspondence, and related documentation, and the district’s response. Minimum retention: 3 years after school year in which complaint resolved  (7) Transportation Safety Records Records document safety hazards and safe routes and monitor student safety when taking school transportation. Records may include but are not limited to safety check records which detail pedestrian routes taken by student to and from school and identify number of traffic lanes, posted speeds, and types of crossings; safe stop reports which identify bus stops with safety hazards; railroad crossing reports which consist of annual reports to the Oregon Public Utility Commission which list location of railroad track crossings on school bus routes, name of railroad, and names of intersecting streets; and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain hazard reports: 1 year after school year in which hazard eliminated (b) Retain all other records: 1 year after school year in which records were created.  (8) Vehicle Maintenance Records Records document the maintenance of school buses and other vehicles owned by the school, district, or ESD. Records may include but are not limited to maintenance agreements; annual and semiannual inspection and certification reports; preventive maintenance inspection reports; specified routine maintenance information; reports on expenditures and costs of repairs; new bus check lists; bus breakdown records; repair notices and orders; operations reports listing gas and oil consumption, mileage, and cost of gas, oil, and maintenance; and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain annual reports: 5 years after school year in which records were created (b) Retain all other records: 3 years after disposal of vehicle.  (9) Vehicle Records Records document school, district, or ESD ownership and administration of vehicles such as cars, vans, trucks, and buses. Records may include but are not limited to title application materials; titles; registrations; vehicle warranties, vehicle inventories, and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: (a) Retain title application materials: Until title received (b) Retain titles: Until vehicle disposed of (c) Retain all other records: 3 years after disposal of vehicle.  (10) Vehicle Usage Records Records document the use of school, district, or ESD owned vehicles such as cars, trucks, vans, or buses. Records may include but are not limited to scheduling records; transportation request forms; list of vehicles with vehicle number and description; mileage; billing documentation and worksheets; billing reports; and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: 3 years. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 & Other Auth. Code of Federal Regulations Title 34 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 166-415-0010, OSA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
