



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 MODEL RULES GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTING 
 137-046-0330 
 Federally Funded Transit Projects — Preference for Exceeding Federal Buy America Requirements 
 
 (1) A contracting agency, in its Solicitation Documents to award a contract for a transit project that will be funded in whole or in part with funds from the federal government or a federal government agency, may provide for the application of a preference in favor of an Offeror whose bid or proposal exceeds the applicable federal Buy America requirements.  (a) A contracting agency has discretion to adjust the amount or character of the preference to account for variations in the nature of the contract or project, and the degree to which each Offeror’s bid or proposal exceeds the federal Buy America requirements.  (b) For example, in an invitation to bid procurement the contracting agency may authorize a range of preference price percentages to account for the various degrees to which the bidders might exceed the federal Buy America requirements. In no event, however, may the percentage preference given to a bidder exceed ten percent of the total bid price.  (c) Similarly, under a request for proposals, the contracting agency may allocate and award evaluation points to reflect the degrees to which the proposers might exceed the applicable federal Buy America requirements. In no event, however, may those percentage points exceed ten percent of the total number of points available for award under the request for proposals. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2012 OL & ch 58 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 8-2012, f. 7-2-12, cert. ef. 8-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
