



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 SPECIAL EDUCATION 
 581-015-2910 
 Authorization of Early Childhood Supervisor
 
 
 (1) This rule establishes an alternative to a Teacher Standards and Practices Commission (TSPC) administrative license for individuals to serve as Early Childhood Supervisors for Programs. Individuals with a TSPC issued administrative license and who hold a masters degree in early childhood education, special education or a related field with three years of experience working with infants, toddlers, young children and families are not covered by sections (4) through (12) of this rule. 

 (2) Responsibilities of the Early Childhood Supervisor may include but are not limited to: 

 (a) Oversight of EI/ECSE services; 

 (b) Supervision and training of personnel in EI/ECSE programs; 

 (c) Serving as administrative representative at IFSP meetings; 

 (d) Facilitating meetings with personnel and families; and 

 (e) Facilitating interagency collaboration. 

 (3) Early Childhood Supervisors must possess a minimum of a master's degree in early childhood education, special education or a related field. 

 (4) Individuals without a TSPC administrative license must successfully demonstrate competency at the supervisor level in the following areas, which are described in the document, “Standards for Professionals Working in EI/ECSE in Oregon”: 

 (a) Vision, Mission, & Direction Setting; 

 (b) Implementation of Policy, Legal, & Ethical Practices for Special Education Programs & Services; 

 (c) Organizational Leadership & Management for Special Education; 

 (d) Program Oversight, Improvement, & Instructional Leadership for Special Education; 

 (e) Human & Fiscal Resource Management of Special Education Programs & Services; 

 (f) Collaboration & Communication with Special Education Stakeholders; 

 (g) Equity & Cultural Responsiveness; 

 (5) Candidates for the Early Childhood supervisor authorization must complete an application and portfolio that documents their mastery level of each component within the standard areas listed in section (4) of this rule. 

 (6) The candidate must submit the application and portfolio to the Oregon Department of Education for review. Supervisors employed on or after October 1, 1998, must complete the authorization within 12 months of employment. The Office of Special Education will convene a panel at least two times per year to review candidate portfolios. The panel will consist of a minimum of three professionals representing the Oregon Department of Education, higher education, and EI/ECSE service providers. The panel will recommend approval or non-approval of the Early Childhood Supervisor authorization for the candidate to the State Superintendent of Public Instruction. 

 (7) The Superintendent will approve or deny the candidate's application considering the recommendation of the panel: 

 (a) Each approved candidate will receive authorization from the Department as an Early Childhood Supervisor; 

 (b) Each non-approved candidate will receive notice from the Department. The notice will include the reasons for denial and the right of appeal to the State Board of Education. 

 (8) Initial authorization is valid for a period of three years. Subsequent authorization is valid for a period of five years. 

 (9) Applicants renewal of the Early Childhood Supervisor authorization must include the following: 

 (a) For initial renewal, a minimum of two years experience between issuance of initial authorization and renewal application; 

 (b) For subsequent renewal, a minimum of three years experience between previous renewal and current application. 

 (c) Written verification by the applicant's supervisor documenting: 

 (A) Completion of a minimum of 75 Professional Development Units for initial reauthorization or a minimum of 125 Professional Development Units for subsequent reauthorization; 

 (B) Completion of a Professional Development Plan developed with the applicant's supervisor; and 

 (C) Development of a new Professional Development Plan developed with the applicant's supervisor. 

 (10) The Department will deny or revoke authorization of an Early Childhood Supervisor under any of the following conditions: 

 (a) The individual has been convicted of any of the crimes listed in ORS 342.143, or the substantial equivalent of any of those crimes if the conviction occurred in another jurisdiction or in Oregon under a different statutory name or number; or 

 (b) The individual has made a false statement as to the conviction of a crime. 

 (11) The Department may deny or revoke authorization for an Early Childhood Supervisor if the individual is charged with a breach of professional responsibilities, which is verified by his/her immediate supervisor. 

 (12) Individuals whose authorization has been revoked will receive notice from the Department. The notice will include the reasons for denial and the right of appeal to the State Board of Education. 

 (13) All supervisors employed by EI/ECSE contractors or subcontractors must have a professional plan based on the content of the EI/ECSE standards as listed in section (4) of this rule. 

 (14) A temporary waiver may be requested by the EI/ECSE contractor when an emergency arises due to a misassignment or unsuccessful recruitment efforts. The request for the waiver must be submitted to the Oregon Department of Education and must include: 

 (a) Documentation of efforts to employ personnel who meet the required competencies; 

 (b) The name, position, and qualifications of the employed personnel; 

 (c) A copy of the professional development plan as described in section (13) of this rule; and 

 (d) Assurances that the plan will be implemented. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 343.055 & 343.475 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 343.055 & 343.475 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 21-2023, amend filed 10/23/2023, effective 10/24/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 581-015-1106, ODE 10-2007, f. & cert. ef. 4-25-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 14-2003, f. & cert. ef. 8-14-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 8-2003, f. 6-9-03, cert. ef. 6-10-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 24-2000, f. & cert. ef. 10-16-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 15-1997, f. & cert. ef. 12-29-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
