



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 255 DIESEL EMISSIONS MITIGATION GRANT PROGRAM 
 340-255-0040 
 Eligible Grant Amounts 
 
 (1) Eligible large trucks that are repowered with any new diesel or alternate fueled engine or all-electric engine or that are replaced with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric vehicle, and using an engine model year in which the repowering or replacement occurs or one engine model year prior, are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible large trucks that are not drayage trucks, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 25% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (b) For non-government owned eligible large trucks that are drayage trucks, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 50% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (c) For government owned eligible large trucks, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (2) Eligible buses that are repowered with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric engine or that are replaced with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric vehicle, and using an engine model year in which the repowering or replacement occurs or one engine model year prior, are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible buses that are not privately owned school buses under contract with a public school district, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 25% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (b) For government owned eligible buses and eligible buses that are privately owned school buses under contract with a public school district, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (3) Eligible freight switchers that are repowered with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric engine(s) (including generator sets) or that are replaced with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric (including generator sets) freight switcher, and where the repowering or replacement is with an engine certified to meet the applicable EPA emissions standards, as published in the 40 CFR Part 1033, for the engine model year in which the eligible freight switcher mitigation action occurs, are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible freight switchers, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine(s) or generator sets, including the costs of installation of such engine(s). 

 (B) Up to 25% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) freight switcher. 

 (C) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s), and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine(s). 

 (D) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric freight switcher, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric freight switcher. 

 (b) For government owned eligible freight switchers, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine(s) or generator sets, including the costs of installation of such engine(s). 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) freight switcher. 

 (C) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s), and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine(s). 

 (D) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric freight switcher, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric freight switcher. 

 (4) Eligible ferries and tugs that are repowered with any new tier 3 or tier 4 diesel or alternate fueled engines, with all-electric engines, with an EPA Certified Remanufacture System, or with an EPA Verified Engine Upgrade, are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible ferries and tugs, approved applications may only receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s). 

 (B) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s), and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine(s). 

 (b) For government owned eligible ferries and tugs, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s). 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine(s), including the costs of installation of such engine(s), and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine(s). 

 (5) Eligible marine shorepower projects are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible marine shorepower, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of up to 25% for the costs associated with the shore-side system, including cables, cable management systems, shore power coupler systems, distribution control systems, installation, and power distribution components. 

 (b) For government owned eligible marine shorepower, approved applications may only receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of up to 100% for the costs associated with the shore-side system, including cables, cable management systems, shore power coupler systems, distribution control systems, installation, and power distribution components. 

 (6) Eligible medium trucks that are repowered with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric engine or that are replaced with any new diesel or alternate fueled or all-electric vehicle, with the engine model year in which the repowering or replacement occurs or one engine model year prior, are eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible medium trucks, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 40% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 25% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (b) For government owned eligible medium trucks, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) engine, including the costs of installation of such engine. 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new diesel or alternate fueled (for example, CNG, propane, hybrid) vehicle. 

 (C) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including the costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric engine. 

 (D) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric vehicle, including charging infrastructure associated with the new all-electric vehicle. 

 (7) Eligible airport ground support equipment that is repowered with an all-electric engine or that is replaced with the same airport ground support equipment in an all-electric form, is eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible airport ground support equipment, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric engine. 

 (B) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric airport ground support equipment, including charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric airport ground support equipment. 

 (b) For government owned eligible airport ground support equipment, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric engine. 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric airport ground support equipment, including charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric airport ground support equipment. 

 (8) Eligible forklifts and eligible port cargo handling equipment that is repowered with an all-electric engine or that is replaced with the same equipment in an all-electric form, is eligible for the following amounts of grant funding: 

 (a) For non-government owned eligible forklifts and eligible port cargo handling equipment, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 75% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric engine. 

 (B) Up to 75% of the cost of a new all-electric forklift or port cargo handling equipment, including charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric forklift or port cargo handling equipment. 

 (b) For government owned eligible forklifts and eligible port cargo handling equipment, approved applications may receive a maximum reimbursement in the amount of: 

 (A) Up to 100% of the cost of a repower with a new all-electric engine, including costs of installation of such engine, and charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric engine. 

 (B) Up to 100% of the cost of a new all-electric forklift or port cargo handling equipment, including charging infrastructure associated with such new all-electric forklift or port cargo handling equipment. 

 (9) Grant funding may also be awarded to provide technical assistance for a project in support of Disadvantaged, Minority, Women, or Emerging Small Business (DMWESB) or Service Disabled Veteran Business (SDVB) applicants as certified by the State of Oregon Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity, based on a request and a statement of need. However, such an award will not exceed 15% of total maximum reimbursement amount available for project costs and may be less, at DEQ’s discretion, subject to overall program administrative expenditure limits. 

 (10) Other projects that are eligible for grant funding under OAR 340-255-0030, and are not described in sections (1) through (8) of this rule, are eligible for the amount of grant funding as authorized under the DERA grant program. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468A.805 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.805 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 2-2021, adopt filed 01/21/2021, effective 01/21/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
