



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Geologist Examiners 
 Chapter 809 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
 809-025-0040 
 Exemptions 
 
 (1) Upon receipt of a written request, the Board, in its sole discretion, may exempt a registrant from the annual continuing education activity requirements as follows: 

 (a) A registrant serving on active duty in the armed forces of the United States for a period of time exceeding one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days in a year may request a full exemption from or a reduction in the continuing education activity hours required for the renewal period; 

 (b) A registrant experiencing disability, illness, or other extenuating circumstance which prevents the registrant from practicing or otherwise prevents the registrant from completing the required continuing education activity hours may request a full exemption from or a reduction in the continuing education activity hours required for the renewal period; and 

 (c) A registrant working or travelling outside of the United States for an extended period of time during a renewal period as part of employment, humanitarian service, or another similar purpose in areas where continuing education activities cannot readily be accessed or completed may request a full exemption from or a reduction in the required continuing education hours for the renewal period. 

 (2) A registrant requesting an exemption shall provide adequate documentation to support the request. The Board, in its sole discretion, may request additional documentation. A request for exemption is incomplete if the registrant does not provide the requested documentation. 

 (3) The Board may, in its sole discretion, approve a full or partial exemption from the annual continuing education activity requirements based on the specific circumstances of each request. 

 (4) The Board may delegate the authority to approve continuing education activity exemptions to the Board Continuing Education Coordinator (CEC), Board Administrator, or other designee of the Board. 

 (5) Any exemption approved will be documented in writing from the Board to the registrant. 

 (6) A registrant with need for an exemption must contact the Board as soon as feasible but at a minimum prior to the registrant’s renewal date. A request for exemption received after the registrant’s renewal date shall not be considered. 

 (7) The Board may not approve requests for exemptions not submitted timely. A written request for exemption received by the Board after the registrant is notified by the Board of the registrant’s selection for a continuing education activity audit is not submitted timely. 

 ( 8) A registrant may not be exempted from continuing education activity requirements solely due to not having actively engaged in the public practice of geology in Oregon during the renewal period. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.310 & ORS 672.588 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 672.588 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BGE 3-2020, adopt filed 06/03/2020, effective 01/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
