



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-6520 
 Cart-Fill 
 
 (1) A unit-dose cart-fill system is a pharmacy controlled unit-of-use drug distribution system.  (a) A unit-dose cart-fill system must provide for separation of drugs by patient name and location, and must be designed to record in an individual patient’s record:  (A) The drug, dose strength, and dosing regimen of those drugs dispensed by the pharmacy;  (B) The number of doses dispensed;  (C) The date of the original order, and the date the order is discontinued.  (b) The system must:  (A) Provide a means for the pharmacist to verify the prescriber's original order;  (B) Provide a means for the pharmacist to verify the accuracy of the selected drug before the dose is delivered for administration to the patient; and  (C) Provide a mechanism to identify controlled substances.  (c) The pharmacist must verify the prescriber’s original order and the accuracy of the selected drug.  (2) Controlled substances may be included in the unit-dose system if the system complies with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations.  (3) Each drug must be in unit-dose packaging when dispensed except when this is impracticable.  (4) A drug not dispensed in unit-dose packaging must be labeled in accordance with other rules in this Division.  (5) A drug in a single container multiple-dose package such as an inhaler or a topical drug must be labeled with the patient’s name and location within the facility.  (6) A pharmacy technician, certified pharmacy technician, intern or pharmacist may fill daily unit-dose drug supplies for a hospital in-patient or a nursing home patient.  (7) The pharmacist must verify the accuracy of a unit-dose package before the dose is delivered for administration to the patient.  (8) Each drug must be stored in a locked area or locked cart. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 3-2010, f. 4-29-10, cert. ef. 4-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
