



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 INSURANCE POLICIES 
 836-052-0576 
 Prohibition Against Post-Claims Underwriting, Applications 
 
 (1) Each application for a long-term care insurance policy, rider or certificate, except those that are guaranteed issue, shall contain clear and unambiguous questions designed to ascertain the health condition of the applicant.  (2) If an application for long-term care insurance contains a question asking whether the applicant has had medication prescribed by a physician, it must also ask the applicant to list the medication that has been prescribed;  (3) If the medications listed in the application were known by the insurer, or should have been known by the insurer at the time of application, to be directly related to a medical condition for which coverage would otherwise be denied, the policy, rider or certificate shall not be rescinded for that condition.  (4) Except for policies or certificates that are guaranteed issue:  (a) The following language shall be set out conspicuously and in close conjunction with the applicant's signature block on an application for a long-term care insurance policy, rider or certificate: Caution: If your answers on this application are incorrect or untrue, (insurer) has the right to deny benefits or rescind your policy.  (b) The following language, or language substantially similar to the following, shall be set out conspicuously on the long-term care insurance policy, rider or certificate at the time of delivery: Caution: The issuance of this long-term care insurance (policy) (rider) (certificate) is based upon your responses to the questions on your application. A copy of your (application) (enrollment form) (is enclosed) (was retained by you when your applied). If your answers are incorrect or untrue, the insurer has the right to deny benefits or rescind your policy. The best time to clear up any questions is now, before a claim arises! If, for any reason, any of your answers are incorrect, contact the insurer at this address: (insert address).  (5) Prior to issuance of a long-term care policy, rider or certificate to an applicant age 80 or older, the insurer shall obtain one or more of the following:  (a) A report of physical examination;  (b) An assessment of functional capacity;  (c) An attending physician's statement;  (d) Copies of medical records.  (6) A copy of the completed application or enrollment form, whichever is applicable, shall be delivered to the insured not later than the time of delivery of the policy, rider or certificate unless it was retained by the applicant at the time of application.  (7) Every insurer or other entity selling long-term care insurance benefits shall maintain a record of all rescissions of policies, riders and certificates, both state- and country-wide, except those that the insured voluntarily effectuated, and shall annually furnish this information to the Director in the format prescribed in Exhibit 1 or similar form approved by the Director.  [ED. NOTE: Exhibits referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731, 742 & 743 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 743.655(10)(a) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-2007, f. 12-3-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 836-052-0645, ID 3-2005, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 20-1990, f. 12-13-90, cert. ef. 1-1-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
