



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 56 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS 
 734-056-0030 
 Requirements for Permit Application and Issuance 
 
 (1) No special event shall be held on a highway right-of-way without an approved Bicycle Race Permit or Permit.  (2) Application for a Bicycle Race Permit or a Permit for a special event shall be made at least 60 days prior to the event, except for filming activity. Application for a Permit for filming activity shall be made at least five working days prior to the filming activity. The District Manager may waive this 60-day of five-day requirement under special conditions.  (3) To obtain a Bicycle Race Permit or Permit the applicant shall:  (a) Apply in writing to the District Manager for the district that holds jurisdiction over the location where the special event is proposed to be held. If the special event or race will cross district boundaries, applications must be made to all applicable District Managers. The application shall be made on an Application and Permit to Occupy or Perform Operations Upon a State Highway, Form 734-3457, unless the special event is a bicycle race. Application for a permit for a bicycle race shall be made on an Application for Bicycle Race Permit, Form 734-2214;  (b) Obtain and submit with the application written permission from any city, county, other public agency or chamber of commerce that has regulatory authority over, or that is sponsoring, promoting or endorsing the special event;  (c) Submit a description of the special event stating all information pertinent to an understanding of the special event, including a map showing the roadways on which the special event will be held; and  (d) Submit a traffic control plan that complies with current M.U.T.C.D. standards and Oregon supplements.  (4) Traffic control, as required in the Bicycle Race Permit or Permit, shall be at the expense of the applicant. The applicant is responsible for notifying local jurisdictions, including police agencies, for their assistance before, during and after a special event. All local jurisdictions and police agency requirements must be met for ODOT to approve the special event.  (5) An applicant for a Bicycle Race Permit must comply with the current Department of Transportation “Guidelines for Administration of Bicycle Racing on Oregon Roads.”  (6) A Bicycle Race Permit or a Permit may be issued when:  (a) Conditions assure reasonable safety for all special event participants, spectators and other highway users;  (b) The special event does not unreasonably interfere with traffic flow which would seriously inconvenience other highway users; and  (c) The special event or race is supported by public policy, clearly a benefit to the public, or has widespread public and local government support.  (7) Each District Manager may develop Permit Guidelines and Special Provisions that address specific traffic conditions and geographic issues for their specific areas of authority.  (8) Other Oregon Administrative Rules prohibiting specific activities will not apply when a permit is issued under this rule.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 810.020, 810.030 & 810.090 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 810.020, 810.030 & 810.090 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 4-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-23-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
