



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 REGISTRATION OF COMMUNITY-BASED STRUCTURED HOUSING FACILITIES 
 309-060-0155 
 Facility Standards 
 
 Each facility must meet the following standards for the protection of residents: 

 (1) Each facility must meet applicable local zoning and building codes and state and local fire, sanitary, and safety regulations. 

 (2) Each bedroom must: 

 (a) Be adequately ventilated, heated, and lighted and have an outside window; 

 (b) Be separate from the operator, members of the operator's family, or other employees; 

 (c) Have adequate space for bed and personal belongings; 

 (d) Have at least 70 square feet of usable floor space for each resident or 120 square feet for two residents. 

 (3) A telephone must be available for use by residents for the purpose of making and receiving phone calls. A listing of emergency telephone numbers, including the numbers of the local police, fire department, ambulance, and the Division must be placed in plain view on or next to the telephone. 

 (4) Bathing and toilet areas must be private, clean, in good repair, and must be accessible at all times. There must be adequate supplies of toilet paper and soap for each bathroom. 

 (5) Fire Safety: 

 (a) An emergency evacuation procedure must be developed, posted, and rehearsed with occupants. A record must be maintained of evacuation drills. Drills must be scheduled at different times of the day and on different days of the week with different locations designated as the origin of the fire for drill purposes: 

 (A) Drills must be held at least every six months; 

 (B) All occupants in the home at the time of the evacuation drills must participate in the evacuation drills; 

 (C) The Record of the evacuation drill must include: 

 (i) The identity of the individual conducting the drill; 

 (ii) The date and time of the drill; 

 (iii) Notification method used to alert occupants; 

 (iv) Names of employees on duty and participating; 

 (v) Number of occupants evacuated; 

 (vi) Any special conditions simulated; 

 (vii) A note on any problems encountered during the drill; 

 (viii) A note of the weather conditions during evacuation; 

 (ix) The time required to accomplish a complete evacuation; 

 (b) The provider must provide to the Division, maintain as current, and post a floor plan on each floor containing room sizes, location of each resident's bed, fire exits, facility manager or provider's sleeping room, smoke detectors, fire extinguishers and escape routes. A copy of this drawing must be submitted with the application and updated to reflect any change; 

 (c) The provider must train all program staff in staff safety procedures prior to beginning their first regular shift. All residents must be trained in individual safety procedures as soon as possible during their first 72 hours of residency. 

 (d) There must be at least one plug-in rechargeable flashlight available for emergency lighting in a readily accessible area on each floor including a basement. 

 (e) A written disaster plan must be developed to cover such emergencies and disasters as fires, explosions, missing persons, accidents, earthquakes, and floods. The plan must be posted by the phone and immediately available to the employees. 

 (f) All stairways, halls, doorways, passageways, and exits from rooms and from the home must be unobstructed. 

 (g) At least one 2A-10BC rated fire extinguisher must be in a visible and readily accessible location on each floor, including basements, and shall be inspected at least once a year by a qualified worker that is well versed in fire extinguisher maintenance. All recharging and hydrostatic testing shall be completed by a qualified agency properly trained and equipped for this purpose; 

 (h) Approved smoke detector systems or smoke alarms must be installed according to Oregon Residential Specialty Code and Oregon Fire Code requirements. These alarms shall be tested during each evacuation drill. The provider must provide approved signal devices for residents with disabilities who do not respond to the standard auditory alarms. All of these devices must be inspected and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the State Fire Marshal or local agency having jurisdiction. Ceiling placement of smoke alarms or detectors is recommended. Alarms shall be equipped with a device that warns of low battery when battery operated. All smoke detectors and alarms must be maintained in functional condition; 

 (i) First aid supplies must be readily accessible to residents and staff. All supplies shall be properly labeled. 

  (j) Facilities must be equipped with carbon monoxide alarms within 15 feet of all bedrooms. All carbon monoxide alarms shall be in working order. 

 (6) Units must be on ground level for residents who are non-ambulatory or have impaired mobility and in accordance with building code and fair housing law. 

 (7) Facilities must follow recommendations of the local fire department and State Fire Marshal. The Division can request an inspection for fire safety upon receipt of a complaint regarding a facility. 

 (8) The building and furnishings in common areas must be clean and in good repair and grounds must be maintained. There must be no accumulation of garbage, debris, rubbish, or offensive odors. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.032, ORS 413.042, ORS 413.085 & ORS 443.485 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.480 - 443.500 & ORS 443.991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 43-2023, amend filed 12/22/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 9-2018, adopt filed 04/16/2018, effective 04/16/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
