



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION UNDER  THE 1996 TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT 
 860-016-0030 
 Arbitration of Disputes 
 
 (1) Negotiating parties may engage the services of an outside arbitrator rather than file a petition with the Commission. If the negotiating parties petition the Commission to arbitrate their dispute, the Commission will use an ALJ as arbitrator unless workload constraints necessitate the use of an outside arbitrator.  (2) A petition for arbitration must contain:  (a) Identification of the parties’ representatives, including contact information with electronic mail addresses;  (b) A statement of all unresolved issues;  (c) A description of each party's position on the unresolved issues;  (d) A proposed agreement addressing all issues, including those on which the parties have reached agreement and those that are in dispute. Wherever possible, the petitioner should rely on the fundamental organization of clauses and subjects contained in an agreement previously approved by the Commission; and  (e) Documentation showing that the request complies with the time requirements of the Act.  (3) Respondent may file a response within 25 days of the request for arbitration. In the response, the respondent must address each issue listed in the request, describe the respondent's position on those issues, and identify and present any additional issues for which the respondent seeks resolution.  (4) The arbitration will be conducted in a manner similar to a contested case proceeding, and the arbitrator will have the same authority to conduct the arbitration process as an ALJ has in conducting hearings under the Commission's rules. However, the arbitration process will be streamlined to meet the Act's timelines. An early conference will be held to discuss processing of the case, and to receive the proposal put forth by each party. The arbitrator will establish the schedule, and decide whether an oral hearing would be helpful. After the oral hearing or other procedures (for example, rounds of comments), each party will submit its "final offer" proposed agreement. The arbitrator will choose between the two final offers. However, if neither offer is consistent with the Act and Commission policies, the arbitrator will make an award that meets those requirements.  (5) Formal discovery procedures will be allowed only to the extent deemed necessary by the arbitrator. Parties will be required to cooperate in good faith in voluntary, prompt, and informal exchanges of information relevant to the matter. Unresolved discovery disputes will be resolved by the arbitrator upon request of a party. The arbitrator will order a party to provide information if the arbitrator determines the requesting party has a reasonable need for the requested information and that the request is not overly burdensome.  (6) Only the two negotiating parties will have full party status. The arbitrator may confer with Staff for assistance throughout the arbitration process. If Staff assistance is desired, the arbitrator will notify (by telephone or other means) the parties at least 24 hours before the consultation with Staff. The parties may attend or listen to the consultation and may respond in a manner allowed by the arbitrator.  (7) To keep the process moving forward, appeals to the Commission will not be allowed during the arbitration process. An arbitrator may certify a question to the Commission if deemed necessary.  (8) To accommodate the need for flexibility, the arbitrator may use procedures that vary from those set out here if the arbitrator deems it helpful in a particular arbitration, as long as the procedures are fair, treat the parties equitably, and substantially comply with the procedures listed here.  (9) Each arbitration award must:  (a) Ensure that the requirements of sections 251 and 252 of the Act and any valid applicable Federal Communications Commission regulations under that section are met;  (b) Establish interconnection and network element prices consistent with the Act;  (c) Establish a schedule for implementation of the agreement; and  (d) Be consistent with Commission policies.  (10) After an arbitration award is submitted to the Commission, notice will be served on those who have indicated a desire to receive notice of mediated and arbitrated agreements. Any person may then file comments within 10 days of service of the award.  (11) The Commission will accept or reject an arbitration award within 30 days.  (12) Within 14 days after the Commission issues its arbitration decision, petitioner must prepare an interconnection agreement complying with the terms of the arbitration decision and serve it on respondent. Within 10 days of service of this interconnection agreement, respondent must either sign and file the agreement or file objections to it. If objections are filed, respondent must state how the agreement fails to comply with the arbitration decision, and offer substitute language complying with the decision. The Commission will approve or reject a filed interconnection agreement within 30 days of its filing, or the agreement will be deemed approved. If petitioner, without respondent's consent, fails to timely prepare and serve an interconnection agreement on respondent, respondent may file a motion requesting the Commission dismiss the petition for arbitration with prejudice. The Commission may grant such motion if the petitioner's failure to timely prepare and serve the interconnection agreement was the result of inexcusable neglect on the part of petitioner. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 756 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  47 USC 252 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2015, f. & cert. ef. 3-3-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 11-2006, f. & cert .ef. 12-15-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 8-1998, f. & cert. ef. 4-8-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
