



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 440 COLUMBIA RIVER FISHERIES TRANSITION PROGRAM 
 635-440-0010 
 Standards to Determine Grant Award Eligibility 
 
 (1) The Department may approve a county program that meets the stated purpose of this rule and contains the elements specified in this section.  (2) Grants are subject to available funding in the Columbia River Transition Fund. A county may qualify for funds if a county has a program that meets the following requirements:  (a) A county must establish a county advisory committee to oversee the county program.  (b) Advisory committee membership shall include at a minimum:  (A) One county commissioner;  (B) Two members who own or manage a permit or who have expertise related to commercial fisheries; and  (C) Two members who are not employed in the commercial fishing industry and who represent the public interest in the equitable administration of public funds.  (c) A county must establish a procedure by which permit owners who have experienced economic harm shall be given funds received under the county program.  (d) A county program must require that an advisory committee must establish compensation rates for economic harm that are based on fair market value.  (e) A county program must establish eligibility requirements for compensation that ensures, that the person did experience legitimate economic harm.  (f) The county will be reimbursed an amount of money, approved by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, to cover the allowable expenditures necessary to implement the county program during the calendar year. Allowable expenditures are:  (A) Establishing a county advisory committee.  (B) Establishing a procedure by which persons applying for compensation will provide sufficient evidence of economic harm.  (C) Establishing a procedure by which persons applying for financial assistance for economic hardship provide an estimate of the potential cost.  (D) Distributing grant program funds.  (E) Preparation of an annual report to the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 509.230 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 508.775 - 508.796 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 160-2014, f. & cert. ef. 12-8-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
