



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 LEASING FOR AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES AT STATE-OWNED AIRPORTS 
 738-015-0080 
 Non-Commercial Aeronautical Lease Provisions 
 
 (1) The prospective Lessee shall be provided a draft non-commercial lease for review only after the Department has approved the lease application. Before entering into the lease with ODA, the prospective Lessee shall review the applicable:  (a) Operating Minimum Standards;  (b) Airport Rules and Regulations;  (c) Rates and Charges Policy; and  (d) Leasing Policy for Non-Commercial Aeronautical Activities.  (2) The draft non-commercial lease shall include, but not be limited to, the following elements:  (a) Description of the lease property, as provided from ODA records;  (b) Term of lease;  (c) Names and addresses of responsible parties;  (d) All fees and charges associated with occupying and operating on the lease property;  (e) Insurance requirements;  (f) Information on all taxes, liens and utilities;  (g) Payment procedures relating to all fees and charges;  (h) Approved non-commercial activities;  (i) Prohibited non-commercial activities;  (j) Compliance with FAA regulations and pertinent laws;  (k) State aircraft and pilot registration requirements;  (l) ODA entry onto lease property;  (m) Access to lease property;  (n) Fire prevention;  (o) Maintenance requirements;  (p) Landscaping;  (q) Construction or alteration procedures;  (r) Restrictions on hazardous substances;  (s) Default and penalty provisions;  (t) Remedies on default;  (u) Bankruptcy;  (v) Termination for airport development;  (w) Transfer of airport ownership;  (x) Sale of improvements;  (y) Lease renewal options;  (z) Procedures for vacating the lease property; and  (aa) Termination of lease provisions.  (3) The base term for non-commercial aeronautical leases shall be no longer than twenty-five (25) years.  (4) If the Lessee requests a renewal, the Department may agree to renew the lease, consistent with OAR 738-015-0080, Non-Commercial Aeronautical Lease Renewal Options, for one (1) five-year period, provided the total lease term does not exceed thirty (30) years.  (5) At the expiration of the base term and any renewals, Lessee may request a new Lease. The Department may negotiate a new lease if the Department determines that:  (a) The existing lease is not in default;  (b) The lease property is not required for other airport uses;  (c) Lessee has met its obligations under the terms of the preceding lease;  (d) Any improvements to the lease property are structurally sound and capable of safe and legal occupancy for the new lease term; and  (e) The Department otherwise finds that a new lease is appropriate.  (6) The duration of the new lease shall be at the Department's option.  (7) Each renewal or new lease following the base term lease shall incorporate all current terms and conditions for leases and any special terms the Department deems necessary based on the particular circumstances of the Lessee and lease property.  (8) If the Department determines that a renewal or new lease will not be offered to Lessee, the Department may require Lessee to remove any structures on the lease property, at Lessee's expense, at the expiration of the current lease between Lessee and the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035, 835.040 & 835.112 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 935.035, 935.040, 835.112 & 836.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 1-2002, f. & cert. ef. 9-3-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
