



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 FOOD, POOL AND LODGING PROGRAM STANDARDS 
 333-012-0055 
 Inspection Standards 
 
 (1) All licensed establishments and facilities, except bed and breakfast facilities, travelers' accommodations, hostels and temporary restaurants, must receive a minimum of one complete inspection for every six months of operation or fraction thereof by the Local Public Health Authority. For vending machines, the Local Public Health Authority shall evaluate at least 10 percent of each licensee's machines during each inspection:  (a) Bed and breakfast facilities must be inspected once per year;  (b) Travelers' accommodations and hostels must be inspected on a schedule in accordance with local public health priorities and with consideration of the following criteria:  (A) Complaints received from a guest at a particular facility;  (B) A history of rule violations;  (C) A request for inspection or consultation from a licensee;  (D) Reports of illness or accidents associated with the facility;  (E) Change of owner or operator;  (F) The facility's method of sewage disposal, source of water and availability of local fire protection services;  (G) Length of time since the last inspection of the facility;  (H) A minimum of one inspection every two years is recommended.  (c)(A) Single-event, seasonal and intermittent temporary restaurants must receive a minimum of one inspection during operation for each license issued;  (B) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(c)(A) of this rule benevolent single-event temporary restaurants may receive an inspection or a consultation in lieu of an inspection, as determined by the Local Public Health Authority.  (2) The Local Public Health Authority may substitute an alternative inspection procedure or intervention once per year in place of an inspection using alternative criteria approved by the Authority.  (3) The Local Public Health Authority must:  (a) Implement an increased inspection schedule for restaurants as described in OAR 333-157-0027. Up to two of the quarterly inspections may be based upon a menu review consultation, an announced inspection, a risk control plan or other method approved by the Authority;  (b) Conduct a pre-operational or construction inspection after plan review and prior to operation of a new, remodeled, converted, renovated or altered establishment or facility. The pre-operational inspection is in addition to the requirement for a complete inspection in section (1) of this rule;  (c) Conduct a complete inspection to assign a public notice of sanitation within 45 days after opening for a restaurant or bed and breakfast facility. This inspection counts toward one of the inspections required in section (1) of this rule;  (d) Completely fill out inspection reports and include at least the following information:  (A) Specific problem and correction statements for all violations, including Oregon Administrative Rule references;  (B) Except in the food service programs, specify time limits for all corrections stated;  (C) Food Service — Document inspections as specified in OAR chapter 333, division 157, Inspection and Licensing Procedures. In addition, the Local Public Health Authority must indicate on the inspection report how a priority and priority foundation item violation has been corrected during complete and recheck inspections; and  (D) Public Swimming Pools — Document pH, free residual chlorine, total chlorine, total alkalinity, total hardness, cyanuric acid (if used), water clarity (recorded as acceptable or unacceptable), water temperature, pressure and vacuum gauge readings and flow rate as measured by flow meter.  (e) Conduct recheck inspections of establishments and facilities to determine if timely corrective action has been taken on noted priority or priority foundation item violations or public health hazards;  (f) At a minimum, furnish each environmental health specialist with the following equipment or materials to conduct inspections:  (A) Temperature measuring devices, flashlight, inspection forms and computer inspection equipment, identification and business cards, rules, stickers and forms;  (B) Food Service — Sanitizing swabs, test strips for chlorine and quaternary ammonium;  (C) Public Swimming Pools — Current state-approved pool test kit and a 25-foot tape measure or equivalent device with the ability to accurately measure distance and depth; and  (D) Food and waterborne illness investigation materials, specified in guidelines provided by the Authority, and a light meter for staff to share.  (g) Maintain and update the Food Program Policy Manual as well as other information required by the Authority; and  (h) Upon request, provide technical information and consultation to the public and those holding permits and licenses. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 446.425, 448.100 & 624.510 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 446.425, 448.100 & 624.510 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2012, f. 8-30-12, cert. ef. 9-4-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 3-2012, f. 2-29-12, cert. ef. 3-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 13-2004, f. & cert. ef. 4-9-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 14-1995, f. 12-28-95, cert. ef. 1-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 9-1994, f. & cert. ef. 4-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1979, f. & ef. 1-18-79 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 105, f. & ef. 2-5-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
