



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 INSURANCE POLICIES 
 836-052-0133 
 Benefit Standards for 1990 Standardized Medicare Supplement Benefit Plan Policies or Certificates Issued for Delivery on or After July 1, 1992 and with an Effective Date of Coverage Prior to June 1, 2010 
 
 (1) The following standards in this rule are applicable to all Medicare supplement policies or certificates delivered or issued for delivery in this state on or after July 1, 1992 and with an effective date of coverage prior to June 1, 2010. A policy or certificate may not be advertised, solicited, delivered or issued for delivery in this state as a Medicare supplement policy or certificate unless it complies with or exceeds the benefit standards set forth in this rule.  (2) The following standards apply to Medicare supplement policies and certificates and are in addition to all other requirements of OAR 836-052-0103 to 836-052-0194.  (a) Regarding preexisting conditions, a Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not:  (A) Exclude or limit benefits for a loss incurred more than six months after the effective date of coverage because the loss involved a preexisting condition. The benefits shall be available after the period of exclusion or limitation permitted under this subsection whether or not a claim concerning the condition was made during the period and whether or not a physician gave medical advice or recommended or gave treatment concerning the condition during the period;  (B) Define a preexisting condition more restrictively than a condition for which medical advice was given or treatment was recommended by or received from a physician within six months before the effective date of coverage.  (b) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not cover losses resulting from sickness on a different basis than losses resulting from accidents;  (c) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall provide that benefits designed to cover cost sharing amounts under Medicare will be changed automatically to coincide with any changes in the applicable Medicare deductible, copayment or coinsurance amounts and copayment percentage factors. Premiums may be modified to correspond with such changes. An insurer must justify any premium modification actuarially and must obtain approval from the Director before implementing the modification;  (d) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not provide for termination of coverage of a spouse because of the occurrence of an event specified for termination of coverage of the insured, other than the nonpayment of premium;  (e) Each Medicare supplement policy shall be guaranteed renewable for the life of the individual in the case of an individual policy and the life of the group in the case of a group policy. In addition:  (A) The insurer shall not cancel or nonrenew the policy on the ground of the health status of the individual;  (B) The insurer shall not cancel or nonrenew the policy for any reason other than nonpayment of premium or a material misrepresentation that is discovered within two years after the effective date of coverage;  (C) If the Medicare supplement policy is terminated by the group policyholder and is not replaced as provided under paragraph (E) of this subsection, the issuer shall offer certificate holders an individual Medicare supplement policy at standard rates and without any waiver, limitation or exclusion, that at the option of the certificate holder:  (i) Provides for continuation of the benefits contained in the group policy; or  (ii) Provides for benefits that otherwise meet the requirements of this section.  (D) If an individual is a certificate holder in a group Medicare supplement policy and the individual terminates membership in the group, the issuer shall:  (i) Offer the certificate holder the conversion opportunity described in paragraph (C) of this subsection; or  (ii) At the option of the group policyholder, offer the certificate holder continuation of coverage under the group policy.  (E) If a group Medicare supplement policy is replaced by another group Medicare supplement policy purchased by the same policyholder, the issuer of the replacement policy, whether the same or a different issuer, shall offer coverage to all persons covered under the old group policy on its date of termination. Coverage under the new policy shall not result in any exclusion for preexisting conditions that would have been covered under the group policy being replaced;  (F) This subsection does not prohibit rate increases otherwise authorized by law.  (G) If a Medicare supplement policy eliminates an outpatient prescription drug benefit as a result of requirements imposed by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, the modified policy shall be deemed to satisfy the guaranteed renewal requirements of this section.  (f) Termination of a Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall be without prejudice to any continuous loss that commenced while the policy was in force, but the extension of benefits beyond the period during which the policy was in force may be conditioned upon the continuous total disability of the insured, limited to the duration of the policy benefit period, if any, or to payment of the maximum benefits. Receipt of Medicare Part D benefits will not be considered in determining a continuous loss.  (g)(A) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall provide that benefits and premiums under the policy or certificate shall be suspended at the request of the policyholder or certificate holder for the period, not to exceed 24 months, in which the policyholder or certificate holder has applied for and is determined to be entitled to medical assistance under Title XIX of the Social Security Act, but only if the policyholder or certificate holder notifies the issuer of the policy or certificate within 90 days after the date the policyholder or certificate holder becomes entitled to the assistance.  (B) If the suspension occurs and if the insured loses entitlement to the medical assistance, the policy or certificate shall be automatically reinstituted, effective as of the date of termination of such entitlement, if the insured provides notice of loss of the entitlement within 90 days after the date of the loss and pays the premium attributable to the period;  (C) Each Medicare supplement policy shall provide that benefits and premiums under the policy shall be suspended for the period provided by federal regulation at the request of the policyholder if the policyholder is entitled to benefits under section 226(b) of the Social Security Act and is covered under a group health plan as defined in section 1862(b)(1)(A)(v) of the Social Security Act. If the suspension occurs and if the policyholder or certificate holder loses coverage under the group health plan the policy shall be automatically reinstituted effective as of the date of loss of coverage if the policyholder provides notice of loss of coverage within 90 days after the date of such loss and pays the premium attributable to the period, effective as of the date of termination of entitlement.  (D) Reinstitution of the coverage:  (i) Shall not provide for any waiting period with respect to treatment of preexisting conditions;  (ii) Shall provide for resumption of coverage that is substantially equivalent to coverage in effect before the date of such suspension. If the suspended Medicare supplement policy provided coverage for outpatient prescription drugs, reinstitution of the policy for Medicare Part D enrollees shall be without coverage for outpatient prescription drugs and shall otherwise provide substantially equivalent coverage to the coverage in effect before the date of suspension; and  (iii) Shall provide for classification of premiums on terms at least as favorable to the insured as the premium classification terms that would have applied to the insured had the coverage not been suspended.  (h) If an issuer makes a written offer to the Medicare supplement policyholders or certificate holders of one or more of its plans, to exchange during a specified period from the holder’s 1990 Standardized plan as described in OAR 836-052-0136 to a 2010 Standardized plan as described in 836-052-0141, the offer and subsequent exchange shall comply with the following requirements:  (A) An issuer need not provide justification to the Director if the insured replaces a 1990 Standardized policy or certificate with an issue age rated 2010 Standardized policy or certificate at the insured’s original issue age and duration. If an insured’s policy or certificate to be replaced is priced on an issue age rate schedule at the time of such offer, the rate charged to the insured for the new exchanged policy shall recognize the policy reserve buildup, due to the pre-funding inherent in the use of an issue age rate basis, for the benefit of the insured. The method proposed to be used by an issuer must be filed with the Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services according to ORS 743.684.  (B) The rating class of the new policy or certificate shall be the class closest to the insured’s class of the replaced coverage.  (C) An issuer may not apply new pre-existing condition limitations or a new incontestability period to the new policy for those benefits contained in the exchanged 1990 Standardized policy or certificate of the insured, but may apply pre-existing condition limitations of no more than six months to any added benefits contained in the new 2010 Standardized policy or certificate not contained in the exchanged policy.  (D) The new policy or certificate shall be offered to all policyholders or certificate holders within a given plan, except where the offer or issue would be in violation of state or federal law.  (3) This section establishes standards for basic or core benefits common to benefit plans A to J. Each issuer shall make available to each prospective insured a policy or certificate including only the basic or core package of benefits established in this section. An issuer may make available to prospective insured any of the other Medicare supplement insurance benefit plans in addition to the basic core package, but not in lieu of it. The basic core package includes the following:  (a) Coverage of Part A Medicare Eligible Expenses for hospitalization to the extent not covered by Medicare from the 61st day through the 90th day in any Medicare benefit period;  (b) Coverage of Part A Medicare Eligible Expenses incurred for hospitalization to the extent not covered by Medicare for each Medicare lifetime inpatient reserve day use;  (c) Upon exhaustion of the Medicare hospital inpatient coverage including the lifetime reserve days, coverage of 100 percent of the Medicare Part A eligible expenses for hospitalization paid at the applicable prospective payment system (PPS) rate, or other appropriate Medicare standard of payment, subject to a lifetime maximum benefit of an additional 365 days. The provider must accept the issuer's payment as payment in full and may not bill the insured for any balance. Billing the insured for any such balance is an unfair practice in the transaction of insurance that is injurious to the insurance-buying public, and is a violation of ORS 746.240;  (d) Coverage under Medicare Parts A and B for the reasonable cost of the first three pints of blood (or equivalent quantities of packed red blood cells, as defined under federal regulations) unless replaced in accordance with federal regulations;  (e) Coverage for the coinsurance amount, or in the case of hospital outpatient department services under a prospective payment system, the copayment amount, of Medicare Eligible Expenses under Part B regardless of hospital confinement, subject to the Medicare Part B deductible.  (4) This section establishes standards for additional benefits. The following additional benefits shall be included in Medicare Supplement Benefit Plans "B" through "J" only as provided by OAR 836-052-0136:  (a) Medicare Part A Deductible benefit, providing coverage for all of the Medicare Part A inpatient hospital deductible amount per benefit period;  (b) Skilled Nursing Facility Care benefit, providing coverage for the actual billed charges up to the coinsurance amount from the 21st day through the 100th day in a Medicare benefit period for post-hospital skilled nursing facility care eligible under Medicare Part A;  (c) Medicare Part B Deductible benefit, providing coverage for all of the Medicare Part B deductible amount per calendar year regardless of hospital confinement;  (d) 80 percent of the Medicare Part B Excess Charges benefit, providing coverage for 80 percent of the difference between the actual Medicare Part B charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established by the Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part B charge;  (e) 100 percent of the Medicare Part B Excess charges benefit, providing coverage for all of the difference between the actual Medicare Part B charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established by the Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part B charge;  (f) Basic Outpatient Prescription Drug benefit, providing coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a $250 calendar year deductible, to a maximum of $1,250 in benefit received by the insured per calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare. The outpatient prescription drug benefit may be included for sale or issuance in a Medicare supplement policy until January 1, 2006;  (g) Extended Outpatient Prescription Drug benefit, providing coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a $250 calendar year deductible to a maximum of $3,000 in benefits received by the insured per calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare. The outpatient prescription drug benefit may be included for sale or issuance in a Medicare supplement policy until January 1, 2006.  (h) Medically Necessary Emergency Care in a Foreign Country, providing coverage to the extent not covered by Medicare for 80 percent of the billed charges for Medicare eligible expenses for medically necessary emergency hospital, physician and medical care received in a foreign country, when the care would have been covered by Medicare if provided in the United States and when the care began during the first 60 consecutive days of each trip outside the United States, subject to a calendar year deductible of $250, and a lifetime maximum benefit of $50,000. For purposes of this benefit, "emergency care" means care needed immediately because of an injury or an illness of sudden or unexpected onset;  (i) Preventive Medical Care benefit, providing coverage for the preventive health services set forth in this subsection that are not covered by Medicare. Reimbursement shall be for the actual charges up to 100 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for each service, as if Medicare were to cover the service as identified in American Medical Association Current Procedural Terminology (AMA CPT) codes, to a maximum of $120 annually under this benefit. This benefit shall not include payment for any procedure covered by Medicare. The preventive health services are:  (A) An annual clinical preventive medical history and physical examination that may include tests and services from paragraph (B) of this subsection and patient education to address preventive health care measures;  (B) Preventive screening tests or preventive services, the selection and frequency of which is determined to be medically appropriate by the attending physician.  (j) At-home recovery benefit, providing coverage for services to furnish short term, at-home assistance with activities of daily living for those recovering from an illness, injury or surgery. The following provisions apply to the at-home recovery benefit:  (A) For purposes of the benefit, the following definitions apply:  (i) "Activities of Daily Living" include but are not limited to bathing, dressing, personal hygiene, transferring, eating, ambulating, assistance with drugs that are normally self administered, and changing bandages or other dressings;  (ii) "Care Provider" means a duly qualified or licensed home health aide or homemaker, personal care aide or nurse provided through a licensed home health care agency or referred by a licensed referral agency or licensed nurses registry;  (iii) "Home" means any place used by the insured as a place of residence, if the place would qualify as a residence for home health care services covered by Medicare. A hospital or skilled nursing facility shall not be considered the insured's place of residence;  (iv) "At-Home Recovery Visit" means the period of a visit required to provide at-home recovery care, without limit on the duration of the visit, except that each consecutive four hours in a 24-hour period of services provided by a care provider is one visit.  (B) Coverage requirements and limitations are as follows:  (i) At-home recovery services provided must be primarily services that assist in activities of daily living;  (ii) The insured's attending physician must certify that the specific type and frequency of at-home recovery services are necessary because of a condition for which a home care plan of treatment was approved by Medicare;  (iii) Coverage is limited to:  (I) No more than the number and type of at-home recovery visits certified as necessary by the insured's attending physician. The total number of at-home recovery visits shall not exceed the number of Medicare approved home health care visits under a Medicare approved home care plan of treatment;  (II) The actual charges for each visit up to a maximum reimbursement of $40 per visit;  (III) $1,600 per calendar year;  (IV) Seven visits in any one week;  (V) Care furnished on a visiting basis in the insured's home;  (VI) Services provided by a care provider as defined in subparagraph (A)(ii) of this subsection;  (VII) At-home recovery visits while the insured is covered under the policy or certificate and not otherwise excluded;  (VIII) At-home recovery visits received during the period the insured is receiving Medicare approved home care services or no more than eight weeks after the service date of the last Medicare approved home health care visit.  (C) Coverage is excluded for:  (i) Home care visits paid for by Medicare or other government programs; and  (ii) Care provided by family members, unpaid volunteers, or providers who are not care providers.  (5) Standards for Plans K and L:  (a) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan "K" shall consist of the following:  (A) Coverage of 100 percent of the Part A hospital coinsurance amount for each day used from the 61st through the 90th day in any Medicare benefit period;  (B) Coverage of 100 percent of the Part A hospital coinsurance amount for each Medicare lifetime inpatient reserve day used from the 91st through the 150th day in any Medicare benefit period;  (C) Upon exhaustion of the Medicare hospital inpatient coverage, including the lifetime reserve days, coverage of 100 percent of the Medicare Part A eligible expenses for hospitalization paid at the applicable prospective payment system (PPS) rate, or other appropriate Medicare standard of payment, subject to a lifetime maximum benefit of an additional 365 days. The provider shall accept the issuer's payment as payment in full and may not bill the insured for any balance;  (D) Medicare Part A Deductible: Coverage for 50 percent of the Medicare Part A inpatient hospital deductible amount per benefit period until the out-of-pocket limitation is met as described in paragraph (J) of this subsection;  (E) Skilled Nursing Facility Care: Coverage for 50 percent of the coinsurance amount for each day used from the 21st day through the 100th day in a Medicare benefit period for post-hospital skilled nursing facility care eligible under Medicare Part A until the out-of-pocket limitation is met as described in paragraph (J) of this subsection;  (F) Hospice Care: Coverage for 50 percent of cost sharing for all Part A Medicare eligible expenses and respite care until the out-of-pocket limitation is met as described in paragraph (J) of this subsection;  (G) Coverage for 50 percent, under Medicare Part A or B, of the reasonable cost of the first three pints of blood (or equivalent quantities of packed red blood cells, as defined under federal regulations) unless replaced in accordance with federal regulations until the out-of-pocket limitation is met as described in paragraph (J) of this subsection;  (H) Except for coverage provided in paragraph (I) of this subsection, coverage for 50 percent of the cost sharing otherwise applicable under Medicare Part B after the policyholder pays the Part B deductible until the out-of-pocket limitation is met as described in paragraph (J) of this subsection;  (I) Coverage of 100 percent of the cost sharing for Medicare Part B preventive services after the policyholder pays the Part B deductible; and  (J) Coverage of 100 percent of all cost sharing under Medicare Parts A and B for the balance of the calendar year after the individual has reached the out-of-pocket limitation on annual expenditures under Medicare Parts A and B of $4000 in 2006, indexed each year by the appropriate inflation adjustment specified by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  (b) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan "L" shall consist of the following:  (A) The benefits described in subsection (a)(A), (B), (C), and (I) of this section;  (B) The benefit described in subsection (a)(D), (E), (F), (G), and (H) of this section, but substituting 75 percent for 50 percent; and  (C) The benefit described in subsection (a)(J) of this section, but substituting $2000 for $4000. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 743.683 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 743.010 & 743.683 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 3-2009, f. 6-30-09, cert. ef. 7-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-2005, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 6-2001, f. & cert. ef. 5-22-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 4-1999, f. & cert. ef. 4-29-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 9-1997, f. & cert. ef. 7-10-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 5-1996, f. & cert. ef. 4-26-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 9-1993, f. 9-28-93, cert. ef. 10-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 5-1993(Temp), f. 8-11-93, cert. ef. 9-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 7-1992, f. & cert. ef. 5-8-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
