



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Housing and Community Services Department 
 Chapter 813 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 202 OREGON ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (OEAP) 
 813-202-0054 
 Recordkeeping and Compliance Monitoring
 
 
 (1) Subgrantees and their subrecipients must maintain accurate financial records satisfactory to OHCS and consistent with OEAP program requirements, which document the receipt and disbursement of all OEAP funds by OHCS. Subgrantees must have an accounting system in place satisfactory to OHCS, and implement the energy assistance database, OPUS, for data and fiscal entry. 

 (2) Subgrantees and their subrecipients must maintain other OEAP records satisfactory to OHCS and consistent with OEAP program requirements, which include, but are not limited to, documentation of household eligibility, receipt of allowable program services, termination of services and the basis for same, housing status, administrative actions, contracts with subrecipients, review of subrecipient performance, action taken with respect to deficiency notices, and any administrative review proceedings. Such records must be satisfactory to OHCS in substance and format. 

 (3) Subgrantees must provide OHCS with all required reports, data, and financial statements by submission deadlines and satisfactory to OHCS in form and substance as identified in the OEAP program requirements and as requested by OHCS. 

 (4) To ensure proper compliance and monitoring of OEAP, subgrantees and their subrecipients must: 

 (a) Furnish representatives of OHCS, the Oregon Secretary of State's Office, the federal government, and their duly authorized representatives access to and permit copying of all electronic or hardcopy books, accounts, documents, and records and allow reasonable access to the project and other property pertaining to OEAP, at any such representative’s request. 

 (b) Cooperate fully in any inspections or other monitoring actions taken by OHCS, the Oregon Secretary of State's Office, the federal government, and their duly authorized representatives. 

 (c) Retain and keep accessible all OEAP records and data according to OEAP program requirements. 

 (5) OHCS will conduct reviews, audits, and other compliance monitoring as it deems appropriate with respect to each subgrantee and its subrecipients to verify compliance with the OEAP program requirements. Subgrantees and their subrecipients must cooperate fully with OHCS in its compliance monitoring activities. 

 (6) Subgrantees must require by contract and monitor their subrecipients’ compliance with all OEAP program requirements including, but not limited to, recordkeeping and retention of records and OHCS compliance monitoring and enforcement. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 456.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 458.505, 458.620 & 458.650 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 28-2019, amend filed 10/28/2019, effective 10/28/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 13-2015, f. & cert. ef. 8-25-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
