



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 44 WORKFORCE 2000 VOCATIONAL TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM 
 581-044-0240 
 Criteria for Grant Awards 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Education shall establish a request for proposal solicitation and approval process to be conducted each biennium for which Career and Technical Education Revitalization Grant funds are available. The Department shall notify eligible applicants of the proposal process and due dates, and make available necessary guidelines and application forms.  (2) All proposals must comply with requirements of the Act. Grants shall be awarded based on the following generally applicable criteria:  (a) The program shall focus on development and/or enhancement of a program of study in career and technical education;  (b) The program supports Oregon high school diploma requirements;  (c) There is a clear connection between the proposal and the workforce for the program of study based on high wages and high demand;  (d) The program shall serve to increase enrollment in programs of study which provide skills for employment in high-demand careers leading to high wages;  (e) The program demonstrates potential to teach a higher-level of academic and technical skills to all students, thereby increasing the knowledge and improving the skills of Oregon's workforce, and meeting established or developing industry standards;  (f) The business industry and/or labor communities are actively involved in program development and implementation in a manner that strengthens the development and continued viability of the program of study;  (g) There is evidence that the program of study implemented or improved shall be sustained beyond the life of the grant;  (h) There are provisions for follow up of students/staff, evaluation of program results, and reporting of program results.  (3) Priority shall be given to proposals that meet the minimum criteria and:  (a) Support new or expanded CTE programs;  (b) Demonstrate long-term viability;  (c) Demonstrate commitments from business, industry, labor or education providers to enhance collaboration;  (d) Demonstrate a diverse number of students served;  (e) Contribute to a reasonable geographic distribution of grant moneys;  (f) Create regional collaborations between partners which may include multiple public schools or other partners in a region; and  (g) Demonstrate that the collaboration between education providers and employers enhanced by the grant will be sustainable beyond the life of the grant. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 344.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 344.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 21-2013, f. & cert. ef. 9-27-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 11-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 4-2-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 14-2011(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-31-11 thru 4-28-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
