



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 18 RULES FOR EGG-LAYING HENS HOUSED IN CAGES 
 603-018-0000 
 Definitions 
 
 For purposes of OAR 603-018-0005 to 603-018-0025: 

 (1) “Cage-free housing system” means an indoor or outdoor controlled environment for egg-laying hens within which the hens: 
(a) may roam unrestricted, other than by external walls; 
(b) are provided with enrichments that allow the hens to exhibit natural behavior, including, at a minimum, scratch areas, perches, nest boxes and dust bathing areas; and 
(c) are provided with care by employees who are standing somewhere within the hens’ usable floor space. 
(2) “Commercial egg producing farm” means any commercial farm used for the commercial production eggs with an annual egg production flock of more than 3,000 hens. 
(3) “Commercial farm owner or operator” means any person who owns or controls the operation of a commercial farm. “Commercial farm owner or operator” does not mean a contractor, consultant or nonmanagement employee. 
(4) “Compliant Eggs” means eggs and egg products including liquid egg which are entirely the product of egg-laying hens that were not confined in a manner violating the standards required by this rule. 
(5) "Director" means the Director of the Oregon Department of Agriculture or the Director's authorized deputies or officers.  
(6) “Egg” means an egg, in the shell, from an egg-laying hen. 
(7) “Egg-laying hen” means any female domesticated chicken, turkey, duck, goose, guinea fowl or other species of fowl that is kept for the purpose of egg production. 
(8) “Egg products” has the meaning given that term in ORS 632.705, except that “egg products” does not include the following products when those products are prepared from egg products or eggs inspected by the United States Department of Agriculture, or by the State Department of Agriculture under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture: 
(a) freeze-dried products; 
(b) imitation egg products; 
(c) egg substitutes; 
(d) dietary foods; 
(e) fried no-bake custard mixes; 
(f) eggnog mixes; 
(g) acidic dressings; 
(h) noodles; 
(i) milk and egg dips; 
(j) cake mixes; 
(k) french toast; 
(l) balut; and 
(m) sandwiches containing eggs or egg products. 
(9) “Enclosure” means any structure used to confine an egg-laying hen. 
(10) “Farm” means the land, buildings and support facilities that are used for the commercial production of animals or animal products used for food or fiber. 
(11) “Federal Act” means the Federal Egg Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq., 84 Stat. 1620 et seq. 
(12) “Multi-Tiered Housing System” means a housing system for hens that provides vertical access to overhead platforms with feeders and drinkers and sufficient overhead platform space for at least 55% of the hens housed at a 1.0 square foot usable floor space per hen rate. 
(13) “Non-Compliant Eggs” means eggs and egg products including liquid egg which are entirely or in part the product of hens confined in a manner which violates this rule including confinement in battery and enriched colony cages. 
(14) “Official Plant” means a plant located within Oregon that is inspected under the federal act and granted an establishment number with prefix of “G” by the Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). 
(15) "Person" means individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs), and joint stock companies engaged in the business of producing, buying, and selling eggs or egg products excluding individuals receiving the eggs or egg products for non-business-related use such as immediate consumption. 
(16) “Usable floor space” means the total square feet of floor space provided to an egg-laying hen, calculated by dividing the total square feet of floor space in an enclosure by the number of egg-laying hens housed inside. Usable floor space; 
(a) includes the combined litter and drop-through area including elevated tiers, and covers over belts, 
(b) excludes nest space where the kick-out feature is being utilized,   
(c) excludes outdoor areas in systems where birds are primarily indoors, 
(d) excludes perches and ramps. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 632.840 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 632.835 - 632.849 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 30-2022, amend filed 11/29/2022, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 20-2012, f. & cert. ef. 7-3-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
