



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 506 JOHN DAY BASIN PROGRAM 
 690-506-0030 
 Objectives 
 
 (1) Basin Objectives: In furtherance of the policies in OAR 690-506-0020, the following objectives are established for meeting water resource needs in the John Day River Basin:  (a) Achieve better seasonal distribution of runoff to reduce high streamflows and increase low streamflows:  (A) Provide for structural and non-structural storage:  (i) Protect identified sites from incompatible land uses through county comprehensive plans;  (ii) Protect all riparian areas and improve those that are damaged;  (iii) Evaluate the benefits of non-structural alternatives for storage.  (B) Increase the infiltration of water in the basin:  (i) Slow runoff by protecting and improving vegetative cover and riparian areas on forest and range lands and by constructing small retention structures;  (ii) Maintain soil permeability in the watershed by avoiding unnecessary soil compaction, maintaining organic material in the soil, and mitigating for roads and other impervious surfaces.  (b) Protect ground water quality and quantity:  (A) Maintain a balance between ground water pumpage plus natural discharge and recharge;  (B) Maintain ground water quality;  (C) Prevent the use of ground water, which is determined to be hydraulically connected to surface water, from significantly lowering streamflows and interfering with the use of surface water.  (c) Encourage water conservation, the efficient use of water, and the elimination of waste:  (A) Minimize surface runoff back to streams from irrigated areas;  (B) Encourage contingency plans by municipalities for use during periods of water shortage;  (C) Increase public awareness of the importance of water conservation.  (d) Protect existing high-quality riparian areas and improve degraded riparian areas:  (A) Promote development of livestock watering facilities outside of riparian areas;  (B) Revegetate degraded riparian areas;  (C) Implement grazing practices which distribute livestock use over the available range;  (D) Fence riparian areas where appropriate.  (e) Maintain instream flows to provide for needs of aquatic life and recreational opportunities:  (A) Restrict additional withdrawals from streams important for instream uses through conditional use classifications;  (B) Achieve established minimum perennial streamflows;  (C) Evaluate the need for additional minimum perennial streamflows;  (D) Increase monitoring of streamflow at existing minimum perennial flow sites;  (E) Increase monitoring and enforcement of water use.  (f) Develop additional water resources data to improve basin water planning and management.  (2) Subbasin Water Use Objectives: Except as otherwise noticed under subbasin special objectives, the following uses are present in each of the subbasins. The continued use of water in such manner is recognized as important to the public and to the holders of water rights. Therefore, in furtherance of the policies in OAR 690-506-0020, the Commission adopts the following objectives, with the noted subbasin exceptions, for meeting the quantitative and qualitative needs for beneficial uses of water:  (a) Domestic Use: Provide for domestic water needs;  (b) Municipal, Commercial, and Industrial Uses — Provide for water needs of existing and future municipal, commercial, and industrial users;  (c) Irrigation and Agricultural Uses — Increase water supplies to permit late season irrigation of the existing croplands and meet future needs for irrigation and other agricultural uses;  (d) Livestock Use — Satisfy current and future needs. Encourage development of additional watering sites outside riparian areas;  (e) Mining Use — Ensure that mining water use does not interfere with other uses;  (f) Power Use — Permit inclusion of power on storage projects and development of power for residential applications where consistent with instream needs;  (g) Fish Life and Wildlife Use — Restore habitat to increase wild fish production. Increase resident fish and wildlife populations. Promote conditions for anadromous fish migration and seasonal rearing downstream;  (h) Pollution Abatement — Improve water quality by eliminating non-point discharge of bacteria and other pollutants, improving riparian conditions, and increasing summer streamflows;  (i) Recreation Use — Provide water for increased recreational opportunities. Support greater recreational access and more facilities for fishing and swimming.  (3) Subbasin Special Concerns: The following objectives for each of the subbasins address special concerns. Achievement of the objectives will aid in furtherance of the policies in OAR 690-506-0020:  (a) Upper Mainstem Subbasin:  (A) Reduce erosion damage caused by high streamflows on the John Day River and Beech and Canyon Creeks;  (B) Protect existing surface water uses form interference by ground water use along the John Day River.  (b) South Fork Subbasin: Reduce erosion damage caused by high streamflows on the lower South Fork John Day River;  (c) Middle Mainstem Subbasin:  (A) The objective for Recreational Use in the Middle Mainstem Subbasin shall be to protect and enhance recreational uses in the John Day Scenic Waterway and to increase recreational access and facilities as needed;  (B) Reduce erosion and damage caused by high streamflows on the John Day River and Bridge Creek.  (d) Middle Fork Subbasin: The objective for Pollution Abatement in the Middle Fork Subbasin shall be to minimize sediment produced from forestry activities and resolve localized water quality problems. Water quality should be improved by eliminating non-point discharges, improving riparian conditions, and improving summer streamflows;  (e) North Fork Subbasin:  (A) The objectives for Pollution Abatement in the North Fork Subbasin shall be to minimize sediment produced from forestry activities and resolve localized water quality problems. Water quality should be improved by eliminating non-point discharges, improving riparian conditions, and improving summer streamflows;  (B) The objectives for Recreational Use in the North Fork Subbasin shall be to provide for instream recreational values and increased flows for boating on the North Fork John Day River. Recreational access and facilities should be increased as needed;  (C) Reduce erosion damage from high streamflows throughout the subbasin;  (D) Reduce ice scouring on the North Fork John Day River between Monument and Kimberly.  (f) Lower Subbasin:  (A) The objective for Recreational use in the Lower Subbasin shall be to protect and enhance recreational uses in the John Day Scenic Waterway and to increase recreational access and facilities as needed;  (B) Reduce damage from high streamflows on the John Day River and Thirtymile Creek;  (C) Slow runoff to increase infiltration of water on cultivated farmland;  (D) Protect the quantity and quality of ground water in Columbia River Basalt and alluvial aquifers. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536 & 537 
 
 
 History: 
 
 

 
 Reverted to WRD 4-1987, f. & cert. ef. 5-14-87 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1989(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 1-27-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 4-1987, f. & cert. ef. 5-14-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1987, f. & cert. ef. 3-3-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-1987, f. & cert. ef. 2-27-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 13-1985, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 3-1981, f. & cert. ef. 5-21-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRB 27, f. 5-11-64 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRB 23, f. 7-3-63 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRB 20, f. 6-8-62 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
