



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 TRAVELERS’ ACCOMMODATION RULES 
 333-029-0045 
 Air Volume, Heat, Light, and Ventilation for Hostels 
 
 (1) Each dormitory must:  (a) Have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet, six inches; and  (b) Have not less than 375 cubic feet of air volume and 50 square feet of usable floor area for each occupant.  NOTE: If any room used for sleeping purposes has a sloping ceiling, the prescribed ceiling height is required in only one-half the area thereof. Floor area where the ceiling is less than five feet from the finished floor to the finished ceiling may not be considered usable.  (2) Bed arrangements of dormitories must provide not less than 24 inches clear space between each bed, cot, or bunk. No dormitory may contain more than two tiers of beds. When two tiers are used, there must be at least:  (a) Three feet of clear vertical space between tiers of beds and between the top tier and ceiling;  (b) Thirty inches of horizontal space between beds;  (c) One foot of clear space between the floor of the dormitory and the underside of the first tier of beds. In lieu of such space, the first tier of bunks must have a continuous base that must be sealed to the floor; and  (d) A minimum aisle width with access to exits must be provided as follows:  (A) Thirty-six inch aisle width when serving a tributary occupant load of 30 or less persons;  (B) Forty-four inch aisle width when serving a tributary occupant load of more than 30 persons;  (C) If more than three beds are placed end to end in a row, there must be an approved aisleway at each end of the row in compliance with paragraph (A) or (B) of this subsection, whichever is appropriate to the occupant load.  (3) Every dormitory, shower, bath and toilet room used during periods requiring artificial heat must be provided with a safe and adequate source of heat by means of air exchange from other room(s) or by mechanical means capable of maintaining room temperature of not less than 68° F. at a level three feet above the floor during the time of occupancy.  (4) All sleeping rooms must be provided with natural light and ventilation by means of windows or skylights with an area of not less than one-tenth of the floor area of such rooms. The minimum area must be 10 square feet:  (a) Not less than one-half of the required window or skylight area may be openable to provide natural ventilation.  (b) In lieu of natural ventilation, a mechanical ventilation system must be provided. Such system must be capable of providing two air changes per hour and one-fifth of the air supply must be taken from the outside.  (c) In lieu of natural lighting, artificial lighting must be provided. Such lighting must be at least 10 foot candles in intensity three feet from the floor surface.  (5) All bathrooms, toilet rooms, laundry rooms, and similar rooms must be provided with natural light and ventilation by means of windows or skylights with an area equal to one-tenth of the floor area of such rooms. The minimum area must be three square feet:  (a) Not less that one-half of the required window or skylight area must be openable to provide natural ventilation. Openable windows must be screened.  (b) In lieu of natural ventilation, a mechanical ventilation system connected directly to the outside must be capable of providing five air changes per hour.  (c) In lieu of natural lighting, artificial lighting must be provided. Such lighting must be at least 10 foot candles in intensity three feet from the floor surface. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 446.330 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 446.310 - 446.350 & 446.990 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 15-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-23-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 5-1985, f. & ef. 4-25-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1978, f. & ef. 1-4-78 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
