



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0613 
 Transformation District Technical Assistance
 
 
 (1) The Department of Education shall provide technical assistance to ELL Transformation Districts. The technical assistance must include an evaluation of the district’s programs for ELL students using an approved and evidence-based needs assessment. The needs assessment will examine the root causes impacting student’s performance and program quality and effectiveness. The evaluation must include, but not be limited to program design, program model, instructional delivery strategies, curriculum, assessment, staff qualifications, staff training on culturally responsive instructional pedagogy and practices, and the level of engagement with ELL families and community. 

 (2) The technical assistance shall have the following phases which may be repeated as necessary: 

 (a) Phase 1: Identify and evaluate local district needs. 

 (b) Phase 2: Identify interventions and assistance. 

 (c) Phase 3: Plan for implementation and monitoring. 

 (d) Phase 4: Implement and monitor. 

 (e) Phase 5: Review, reflect and adjust. 

 (3) The technical assistance must be within the following framework: 

 (a) Include the application of an Equity Lens identified by the Department; 

 (b) Be in collaboration with the school district; 

 (c) Be based on a district needs assessment; 

 (d) Be based upon district and state data; 

 (e) Be individualized based on district needs and areas identified for improvement; 

 (f) Include culturally responsive evidence-based practices; 

 (g) Include culturally responsive promising practices; 

 (h) Consider the ELL students’ specific learning challenges, backgrounds and demographics of the district; 

 (i) Include an examination of school district expenditures of federal and state funds for ELL students; 

 (j) Identify district improvement goals including expected growth and expected benchmarks for student progress indicators, and measurable district goals for implementing instructional practices and program improvements recognized as effective in improving outcomes for ELL students.; and 

 (k) Be consistent with other state and federal laws. 

 (4) The technical assistance process must include engagement with: 

 (a) District administrators, teachers, ELL directors and other school district staff; 

 (b) Improvement and instructional coaches; 

 (c) Families of ELL students; and 

 (d) Community stakeholders which may include culturally specific community based organizations and federally recognized tribes. 

 (5) The Department shall ensure that staff contracted to provide technical assistance to districts have the appropriate ELL program knowledge, experience and background to effectively support the implementation of the district’s programs for ELL students including culturally responsive pedagogy and practices. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Sec. 3, ch. 604 & OL 2015 (Enrolled HB 3499) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 339.079 & Sec. 3, ch. 604 & OL 2015 (Enrolled HB 3499) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 22-2020, amend filed 05/27/2020, effective 05/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 51-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-20-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
