



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Massage Therapists 
 Chapter 334 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 334-001-0060 
 Definitions
 
 
 (1) "Advantageous" means in the Board’s best interests, as assessed according to the judgment of the Board. 

 (2) "Award" means either the act or occurrence of the Board's identification of the Person with whom the Board will enter into a Contract. 

 (3) "Barter" means partial or complete trade or exchange of massage or bodywork services for any other type of goods or service other than money. 

 (4) "Board" means the State Board of Massage Therapists or its authorized representatives as provided by ORS 687.115. 

 (5) “Bodywork” means the use on the human body, for the purpose of, but not limited to, maintaining good health and establishing and maintaining good physical condition of: 

 (a) Pressure, friction, stroking, tapping, kneading, vibration or stretching by manual or mechanical means or gymnastics; 

 (b) Appliances, tools or devices; 

 (c) Topical preparations; or 

 (d) Hot and cold applications. 

 (6) "Boundary" means the limits in a professional relationship which create safety based on the needs of the client. 

 (7) "Boundary violation" means an alteration or shift in the limits of a professional relationship so that what is allowed in the relationship becomes ambiguous and/or may not be based on the needs of the client. 

 (8) "Caring" means acting in a manner in which things, events, people or relationships matter. 

 (9) "Certified Class or program" means a class or program that is approved by the Board and is offered: 

 (a) By a person or institution licensed as a career school under ORS 345.010 to 345.450; or 

 (b) By a community college or university approved by the Higher Education Coordinating Commission; 

 (c) By an accredited College or University; or 

 (d) In another state and licensed or approved by the appropriate agency in that state. 

 (10) "Client" means any individual, group of individuals, or organization to whom an LMT provides massage 

 (11) “Client vulnerability” means factors which diminish a client’s ability to be self-determining. 

 (12) "Compensation" means something given or received as payment including but not limited to bartering, tips, monies, donations, or services. 

 (13) “Conflict of interest” means any action or decision or recommendation by an LMT at the detriment of a client. 

  (14) "Contract" means an agreement for purchase, lease, rental or other acquisition or sale or other disposal by the Board of Goods or Services. 

 (15) "Contract Price" means, as the context requires; 

 (a) The maximum payments that the Board will make under a Contract if the Contractor fully performs under the Contract; 

 (b) The maximum not-to-exceed amount of payments specified in the Contract; or 

 (c) The unit prices for Goods and Services set forth in the Contract. 

 (16) "Contractor" means the Person with whom the Board enters into a Contract. 

 (17) "Critical Reflection" means a process whereby knowledge and action are connected to each other through the application of careful, conscious, deliberate reflection on: 

 (a) Personal practice (perceptions, assumptions, motivations, values, behaviors). 

 (b) Assessment and understanding of a situation. 

 (c) Likely or actual consequences or impact of one's actions. 

 (18) "Dual Relationship" means any relationship of a personal or business nature with a client that is in addition to or concurrent with a professional relationship in which the LMT is providing or has provided massage or bodywork services to that same client. 

 (19) "Ethics" means a system of valued societal beliefs and behaviors that may be used to guide and evaluate conduct to ensure the protection of an individual's person and rights. 

 (20) "Emergency" means circumstances that: 

 (a) Could not have been reasonably foreseen; 

 (b) Require prompt execution of a Contract to remedy the condition; and 

 (c) The circumstances create a substantial risk of loss or revenue, damage or interruption of services or substantial threat to property, public health, welfare or safety when the circumstances could not have been reasonably foreseen; 

  (21) Equivalent Credit Hours: are those credit hours as determined by the respective educational institution or its certified classes or programs 

 (22) Good moral character means 

 (a) An applicant has not ever before the date of application, been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral turpitude or prostitution, solicitation, required to be a registered sex offender and other similar offense which has a reasonable relationship to the practice of massage; 

 (b) Has not ever before the date of application, been convicted of an act involving dishonest, fraud misrepresentation, gross negligence or incompetence or is not currently incarcerated or on community supervision after a period of incarceration in a local,  state or federal penal institution for such an act; 

 (c) Has not ever before the date of application, had a professional license revoked or suspended by this state, a political subdivision of this state, or a regulatory board in another jurisdiction in the United States, or voluntarily surrendered a professional license in lieu of disciplinary action; 

 (d) Has not ever before the date of the application, had a massage therapy license revoked or suspended by any state or national massage certifying agency. 

 (23) "Goods and Services" or "Goods or Services" means supplies, equipment, materials and services including Personal Services and any personal property, including any tangible, intangible and intellectual property and rights and licenses in relation thereto, that the Board is authorized by law to procure. 

 (24) "Indorsement" means the process of evaluating and recognizing the credentials of a person licensed in Oregon in another health care specialty that includes in its scope of practice, acts defined as massage: or 

 (25) "Informed consent" means a process wherein clients have knowledge of what will occur, that participation is voluntary, and that the client is competent to give consent. 

 (26) "Licensee" means any person holding a license, permit, or certificate issued by this Board; an LMT 

 (27) "LMT” means a Licensed Massage Therapist. 

 (28) "Massage" or "massage therapy" is defined in ORS 687.011. 

  (29) "Offer" means a response to a request for price quote or response to a Solicitation Document. 

 (30) "Offeror" means a Person who submits an Offer. 

 (31) Professional fitness means 

 (a) An applicant has not ever before the date of application, been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral turpitude or prostitution, solicitation, required to be a registered sex offender and other similar offense which has a  reasonable relationship to the practice of massage; 

 (b) Has not ever before the date of application, been convicted of an act involving dishonest, fraud misrepresentation,  gross negligence or incompetence or is not currently incarcerated or on community supervision after a period of incarceration in a local, state or federal penal institution for such an act; 

 (c) Has not ever before the date of application, had a professional license revoked or suspended by this state, a political subdivision of this state, or a regulatory board in another jurisdiction in the United States, or voluntarily surrendered a professional license in lieu of disciplinary action; 

 (d) Has not ever before the date of the application, had a massage therapy license revoked or suspended by any state  or national massage certifying agency. 

 (32) “Personal power” means recognizing and taking personal responsibility for the inherent power differential between the LMT and the client and recognizing and taking personal responsibility for the impact of professional decisions, actions and behavior on the client. 

 (33) "Power differential" means the basic inequality inherent in the professional relationship between an LMT and a client in terms of who has the advantage in the relationship. The LMT is presumed to have the advantage by virtue of the authority which emerges from the role of professional and the vulnerability which is automatically part of the role of client. 

 (34) “Practical Work Experience” means experience gained while employed or self-employed providing legal massage/bodywork to the public within the last five (5) years, in another state or jurisdiction. 

 (35) "Practice of massage" is defined in ORS 687.011. 

 (36) "Professional authority" means the power inherent in the professional role and which is derived from a combination of an LMT’s specialized or expert knowledge, societal expectations, stated and unstated client expectations, and an LMT’s personal power. 

 (37) "Professional relationship" means the relationship established when a LMT contracts with a client, verbally or in writing, to provide any service associated with the practice of massage or bodywork. 

 (38) "Professional role" means assuming the demands and responsibilities of professional authority by taking charge of the conditions which create and maintain client safety and trust in the professional-client relationship. 

 (39) "Scope" means the range and attributes of the Goods or Services described in the applicable Solicitation Document, or if no Solicitation Document, in the Contract. 

 (40) "Solicitation Document" means an Invitation to Bid, Request for Proposal or other document issued to invite Offers from prospective Contractors. 

 (41) "Specification" means any description of the physical or functional characteristics or of the nature of Goods or Services, including any requirement for inspecting, testing or preparing Goods or Services for delivery and the quantities of materials to be furnished under a Contract. Specifications generally will state the result to be obtained. 

 (42) “Split Fee” means giving or receiving a commission or payment, either monetary or otherwise, for the referral of patients. 

 (43) “Successful Completion” means the written receipt of credit from classes taken at a community college or university or the written receipt of a certificate from a program or private career school. 

 (44) “Supervised hours” means actual hours in class under the instruction of and in the physical presence of an instructor; or an interactive distance learning course. 

 (45) “Unsupervised hours” means education hours independently acquired outside the presence of an instructor. 

 (46) "Written" or "Writing" means conventional paper documents, whether handwritten, typewritten or printed, in contrast to spoken words. It also includes electronic transmissions or facsimile documents when required by applicable law or permitted by a Solicitation Document or Contract. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 687.011 & 687.121 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 687.011 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 1-2022, amend filed 05/20/2022, effective 07/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 1-2018, amend filed 11/21/2018, effective 01/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 2-2017, amend filed 11/17/2017, effective 11/17/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 3-2015, f. 11-12-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 1-2015, f. 3-12-15, cert. ef. 7-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 2-2012, f. 12-4-12, cert. ef. 1-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 4-2011, f. 12-1-11, cert. ef. 1-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 2-2011, f. 6-29-11, cert. ef. 7-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 3-2009, f. & cert. ef. 7-2-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 1-2009, f. 2-13-09, cert. ef. 3-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 1-2003, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMT 2-1998, f. & cert. ef. 7-22-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
