



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 RULES GOVERNING THE MANAGEMENT OF STATE-OWNED SUBMERGED AND SUBMERSIBLE LAND SUBJECT TO REMEDIATION AND HABITAT RESTORATION ACTIVITIES 
 141-145-0065 
 Assignment of Authorizations 
 
 (1) An access authorization is not assignable.  (2) The holder of an easement or lease in good standing can assign its easement or lease with prior written consent of the Department.  (3) To assign an easement or lease, the holder must submit to the Department a:  (a) Notice of proposed assignment on a form provided by the Department at least 60 calendar days prior to the date that the assignment is to occur; and  (b) Non-refundable administrative processing fee of $750, payable to the Department.  (4) The Department may reject an assignment if:  (a) The assignee’s financial status, past business, or management practices or experience indicates to the Department that the assignee may not:  (A) Be able to fully meet the terms and conditions of a lease or easement; or  (B) Be able to fully comply with all applicable terms or conditions of the Order under which remediation is being conducted, including without limitation, terms and conditions related to ongoing monitoring and maintenance, insurance, indemnification and financial assurance; or  (C) Use the land applied for in a way that is consistent with the provisions of these rules.  (b) The assignee is not in compliance with the terms and conditions on any other authorization granted to them by the Department.  (5) The Department may request additional information concerning the proposed assignment.  (6) The Department may condition the assignment on the assignor retaining responsibility for some or all of the terms and conditions in the lease or easement guaranteeing the performance of the assignee.  (7) An assignment does not take effect until the Department authorizes it in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2014, f. 1-13-14, cert. ef. 2-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
