



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM SELECTION RULES 
 330-125-0040 
 Incentive Contract 
 
 (1) Parties selected to receive an incentive must sign a contract with the Department concerning compliance with RSD Program design, siting, construction, reporting, and monitoring requirements and return the contract to the Department within 30 days of the contract being offered. Failure to sign the contract will void the Department’s offer of an incentive. Where an incentive has been reserved for a home buyer, that home buyer will have 30 days from notification by the Department to identify a home builder. That home builder then must sign a contract within 30 days of the Department’s offer of a contract.  (2) The home builder contract will provide the method of payment(s) and inspection requirements that must be met before payment(s) is made.  (3) The home builder contract may be made contingent upon the home builder or a potential home buyer obtaining a loan commitment to pay for building the model conservation standards residence.  (4) The home builder signing the contract shall:  (a) Agree to build in Oregon an electrically-heated residence(s) to the model conservation standards;  (b) For residences that are not pre-sold at the time the incentive is approved, agree to request that the home buyer permit and assist in the monitoring of the residence’s energy consumption and indoor air quality by the Department or BPA. However, agreement by the home buyer to participate in monitoring is a requirement for a home builder to receive a full incentive for matched-pair residences;  (c) Agree to provide cost-accounting data on the incremental costs of building to the model conservation standards;  (d) Agree to allow the Department, BPA, or their agents to inspect the construction of the residence to ensure compliance with the plans approved by the Department;  (e) Agree to attend and complete the technical and cost-accounting training sessions being provided by the Department and its agents.  (5) Any home buyer who is identified at the time the home builder signs a contract with the Department will be required to enter into a contract with the Department. The home buyer must:  (a) Agree to participate in Departmental or BPA monitoring of energy use and indoor air quality in the residence for at least one year; and  (b) Agree not to require any design or construction changes that will affect the model conservation standard provisions in the residence without prior written approval of the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 3-1984, f. & ef. 1-30-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
