



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 COMMUNITY-BASED CARE TRANSITION SERVICES 
 411-037-0040 
 Community Transition Services 
 
 (1) Approval for services and supports must: 

 (a) Be based on an assessed need determined during the person-centered service planning process. 

 (b) Support the desires and goals of the consumer receiving services and supports. 

 (2) Total expenses for transition services and supports covered under this rule may be approved from the date of authorization up to 30 days after a consumer discharges from their current community-based care facility or acute care hospital on a permanent basis and may include more than one item. 

 (3) Allowable expenses are those necessary to enable a person to establish a basic household and to meet their assessed needs. 

 (4) Total purchases for basic household goods and furnishings are limited to one time per year and must occur within the first 30 days a consumer discharges from their current community-based care facility or an acute care hospital to a permanent in-home setting. 

 (5) Total purchases for transition services and supports, other than basic household goods and furnishings, are limited to no more than twice annually. To access transition services and supports more often, Central Office may approve exceptions to this rule. 

 (6) Funds must not be used to retroactively reimburse a consumer, natural supports, or community-based care providers for transition service expenses. 

 (7) Unless indicated in this rule, allowable transition services are limited and include: 

 (a) Housing application fees. 

 (b) Payment for background and credit checks related to housing. 

 (c) Cleaning deposits. 

 (d) Security deposits. 

 (e) Initial deposits for heating, lighting, and phone service. 

 (f) Payment of previous utility bills that prevent a consumer from receiving utility services. 

 (g) Purchase of Basic Household Goods: 

 (A) Household Goods may include, but are not limited to: 

 (i) Cookware. 

 (ii) Tableware. 

 (iii) Garbage cans. 

 (iv) Trash bags. 

 (v) Toilet paper. 

 (vi) Bedding. 

 (vii) Linens. 

 (viii) Basic cleaning supplies. 

 (B) The purchase of basic household goods is not intended to replace useable items already available to the consumer. 

 (C) Purchases of household goods are limited to: 

 (i) The amount necessary to adequately meet the needs of the consumer, but may not exceed $500. 

 (ii) The Department may approve additional household goods if the consumer's functional needs assessment indicates the need for additional household goods beyond the standard limit. 

 (h) Purchase of Basic household furnishings. 

 (A) Basic household furnishings may including, but are not limited to: 

 (i) Beds. 

 (ii) Mattresses. 

 (iii) Dressers. 

 (iv) Couches. 

 (v) Tables. 

 (vi) Chairs required in an in-home service setting. 

 (B) The purchase of basic household furnishing is not intended to replace useable items already available to the consumer. 

 (C) Purchases are limited to: 

 (i) The amount necessary to adequately meet the needs of the consumer and may not exceed $1,000. 

 (ii) The Department may approve additional household furnishings if the consumer's functional needs assessment indicates the need for additional household furnishings beyond the standard limit. 

 (i) Movers and moving expenses may be authorized if required to transition a consumer from a community-based care or acute care hospital to an in-home setting. Local offices may approve moving costs up to $1,000 per move. Any expenditures above that amount may be approved by the Central Office. 

 (j) Extra locks, for security purposes, or duplicate keys needed to assist the consumer in their in-home service setting. 

 (k) Community Long Term Care Nursing services where a contract RN delegates or teaches the consumer, caregivers, or natural supports to: 

 (A) Provide personal care assistance to the individual; 

 (B) Provide ongoing medical treatment; or 

 (C) Administer medication. 

 (8) The following services and expenses must be pre-authorized by the Department's Central Office: 

 (a) Purchases that exceed the monetary limits described in this rule. 

 (b) Approval for expenses that occur greater than 30 days after the transition period. 

 (c) Items required to establish a home not identified in this rule. 

 (d) Other necessities not identified in this rule that are required for a consumer to transition from a community-based care facility setting. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 & 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050 & 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 7-2018, adopt filed 03/28/2018, effective 03/29/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 23-2017, temporary adopt filed 09/29/2017, effective 10/01/2017 through 03/29/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
