



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Clover Seed Commission - Chapter 664 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 REPORTING AND PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS 
 664-010-0010 
 Reports and Payment of Assessment Monies 
 
 (1) Except as otherwise exempt or provided by regulation, a first purchaser or handler shall forward to the Commission on or before July 30th, October 30th, January 30th and April 30th (30 days after the end of the quarter on a quarterly calendar year basis) completed and signed Commission approved forms covering all purchases of Oregon produced clover made by him during the quarterly period (reporting period) immediately preceding each reporting date: “Reporting period” for the purpose of this section means the months of:  (a) January, February, March;  (b) April, May, June;  (c) July, August, September;  (d) October, November, December.  (2) When a first purchaser or handler has completed, signed and forwarded a report covering his final purchase of clover seed for the crop season, he may mark such report as “Final Report for This Crop Season.” No further reports are necessary by such first purchaser unless or until additional purchases are made.  (3) When a first purchaser lives or has his office in another state, or is a federal or governmental agency, the producer shall report to this Commission all sales made to such purchaser as required by section (1) of this rule and shall pay the assessment directly to the Commission, unless such first purchaser voluntarily makes the proper deduction and remits the proceeds to this Commission.  (4) At the time that reports are due, the Commission from the first purchaser or first handler, as required in section (1) of this rule, the first purchaser or first handler shall attach and forward payment to the Commission for the assessment due as set forth in each such report. The forms shall be signed by the first purchaser and completely filled out, and shall include, in addition to all other required information and figures, the name and complete mailing address of each producer, (the crop year), the tonnage and amount of assessment deducted and withheld.  (5) Any producer who performs the handling or processing functions on all or part of his production of the commodity, which normally would be performed by another person as the first purchaser thereof, shall report his sales of such commodity of his own production on forms provided by, and pay the assessment monies directly to the Commission, unless the first purchaser from such producer voluntarily makes proper deduction and remits the proceeds to the Commission. Examples would be the sale by a producer direct to another producer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 576.051 - 576.585 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CC 3-1991, f. & cert. ef. 6-14-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
