



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-8050 
 Emergency Drug Supply in Home Health Care Agencies 
 
 Pharmacists serving home health care agencies may provide for an emergency supply of drugs to be made available to registered nurses to treat immediate therapeutic needs of their patients or clients during such time as the pharmacy services are not available. Arrangements shall be made in advance by the provider pharmacist for provision of the emergency drug supply:  (1) Emergency drugs defined. Emergency drugs are those non-controlled substances which may be required to meet the immediate therapeutic needs of patients and which are not available from any other authorized source in a timely manner;  (2) Portable Container. Subject to all provisions of this section, a licensed pharmacy may furnish to a home health agency licensed by the State an emergency drug supply in a portable container for emergency in home treatment or adjustment of drug therapy by the home health agency nurse;  (3) Drugs included. The pharmacist(s) and the practitioner(s) who represent the agency shall jointly determine and review annually a list of items and quantities to be included in the emergency supply. Drugs shall only be available therein, in amounts sufficient for immediate therapeutic requirements. The selected list shall include only drugs to treat the following specific conditions:  (a) Allergic reactions;  (b) Diabetic emergencies;  (c) Severe nausea and vomiting;  (d) Pulmonary congestion or congestive heart failure;  (e) Local or topical anesthetics for catheter and needle placement;  (f) Hydration due to hypovolemia or shock;  (g) Routine catheter maintenance; and  (h) Narcotic analgesic overdose.  (4) Security. The emergency drug supply shall be stored in a manner to prevent loss of drugs, and available only to authorized licensed personnel. It may be kept in a room adjacent to the locked pharmacy, or in a secure area in the Home Health/Home I.V. nursing office;  (5) Storage. The emergency drug supply shall be stored in areas suitable to prevent unauthorized access and to insure a proper environment for preservation of the drugs as required in official compendia;  (6) Labeling-Exterior. The exterior of the emergency drug supply shall be labeled to clearly indicate it as an emergency supply. Labeling shall also include the expiration date of the drug supply. A complete listing of the contents of the supply shall be readily available;  (7) Labeling-Interior. All drugs contained in the emergency medication supply shall in the manufacturer's container or be labeled in accordance with OAR 855-041-1135;  (8) Drugs added to parenteral solutions. Whenever any drug is added to a parenteral solution, whether within or outside the direct personal supervision of a pharmacist, such admixtures shall be labeled with a distinctive supplementary label indicating the name and amount of the drug added, date and time of addition, expiration date, administration time and infusion rate when applicable, and name or initials of person so adding. This excludes any single dose medication prepared and totally administered immediately;  (9) Removal of drugs. Emergency drugs shall be removed for administration only by authorized licensed personnel pursuant to a prescriber's order. A copy of this order shall be forwarded to the provider pharmacist within 72 hours to be reviewed and filed in the pharmacy. Verification of this review shall be a hand written initial of the reviewing pharmacist on that copy of the order;  (10) Expiration Date. The expiration date of the emergency drug supply shall indicate the month and year, and shall be the earliest expiration date of any drug in the supply. The provider pharmacist shall examine the supply and replace drugs prior to their expiration. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 475.035 & 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.225 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 7-2012, f. & cert. ef. 12-17-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 4-2002, f. 6-27-02, cert. ef. 7-1-02, Renumbered from 855-041-0165 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PB 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 4-5-96, Renumbered from 855-041-0183 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
