



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 300 WILDLIFE DAMAGE PLANS 
 635-300-0010 
 Implementation of Policies 
 
 Implementation of the Elkhorn Wildlife Area Program entails the following actions:  (1) Purchase, easement or long-term lease of the five privately owned sites presently used for feeding or comparable sites in the same vicinity. Purchases of the Roth property at Hunt Mountain and the Alpine Veneer property at Muddy Creek shall receive immediate priority.  (2) Maintain habitat developments and damage control activities at levels necessary to complement the feeding program to assure damage is controlled to the maximum extent possible.  (3) Limit the number of wintering elk fed to a maximum of 1,400 elk in the Elkhorn region in order to continue and maintain the current operation. The number of deer to be fed is not specifically limited.  (4) The Elkhorn region is defined as that area east of the crest of the Elkhorn Mountains, west of Interstate 84, north of Township 11 South, W.M. and south of Township 4 South, W.M. The Elkhorn Wildlife Area is defined as the areas in that region owned by, leased to or under easement to the Department where specific site(s) are used for feeding.  (5) Annually test big game animals to determine whether disease problems exist at feeding stations.  (6) Develop and submit, for approval by Baker and/or Union Counties, those applications that may be required by each county’s respective acknowledged land use plan and zoning ordinance to allow big game feeding stations. Applications will address the specific local land use approval standards acknowledged by the Land Conservation and Development Commission. Such standards may include but may not be limited to: Anticipated or needed programs for green forage; need for elk proof fencing; the location of roads and barns; etc.  (7) The Elkhorn Wildlife Area Plan shall specifically accept and address future programs approved by the Fish and Wildlife Commission (including those recommended by the Wildlife Damage Task Force) that reduce or alleviate game damage at any season. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 44-1986, f. & ef. 8-19-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
