



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 State Library 
 Chapter 543 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 GOVERNMENT INFORMATION SERVICES 
 543-020-0070 
 Certification of State Agency Libraries 
 
 (1) The certification process applies to all state agency libraries and resource centers, except the State of Oregon Law Library, a County Law Library and the State Archives.  (2) Intent and Purpose  (a) The intent of library certification is to increase awareness of state agency library resources and services that improve customer service, build a structure for partnerships and interagency coordination, reduce duplication, and create cost efficiencies through shared purchasing of library resources.  (b) The purpose of these rules is to establish the certification process and review criteria.  (3) Process:  (a) The lead librarian or staff member/manager responsible for the state agency library or resource center shall be responsible for carrying out the agency’s obligations under this section. Each state agency library will notify the State Librarian of the name of the library staff person who will be the contact person for the state agency library or resource center.  (b) The State Library will maintain a list of state agency libraries and resource centers. All state agency libraries and resource centers on the list will go through the certification process.  (c) The State Library will certify state agency libraries once each biennium.  (d) Biennially, the State Librarian shall conduct a review of each state agency library’s compliance with State Agency Library Standards of Operation and report the findings to the legislature.  (e) State agency libraries and resource centers meeting State Agency Library Standards of Operation shall be certified. In determining certification, the State Library shall apply the following criteria: State Agency Library Standards of Operation:  (A) The contact person regularly consults with agency management in developing collection resources that meet the information needs of agency staff and align with the strategic plans of the agency.  (B) The contact person consults with the State Library on the purchase and licensing of needed information products and services per State Library administrative rules to assure the best possible price agreement  (C) The contact person partners with other state agency libraries to promote shared resources and programs that increase efficiencies across state government  (D) The contact person develops and uses metrics to continually measure the use, quality and value of the agency library/resource center. Results are reported to agency management and the State Library on an annual basis.  (E) The state agency library or resource center is staffed by personnel whose library responsibility is a substantial component of the position description and the agency has a dedicated budget for purchasing information resources.  (f) The State Library will send written notification of the state agency library’s certification status.  (g) An agency may file an appeal of the decision directly to the State Librarian if it is not satisfied with the decision. The contact person must file any appeal within ten (10) business days from the date of the notice. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 357.029 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 357.029 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSL 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-13-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSL 1-2016(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 1-11-16 thru 7-6-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
