



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT 
 137-090-0100 
 Information Classification 
 
 (1) General: In order to protect sources, investigations and individual rights to privacy, information retained in the CIU’s criminal intelligence file is classified to indicate the degree to which it must be kept secure. Many documents received by the CIU have classifications assigned to them by the senders. In such cases, CIU personnel must take care to review and to assign levels of security classification not below that given by senders. The classification of criminal intelligence information is subject to continual change. The passage of time, the conclusion of investigations, and other factors may affect the security classification assigned to particular documents. Documents within the intelligence files should be reviewed on an ongoing basis to ascertain whether a higher or lesser degree of document security is required and to insure that information is released only when and if appropriate.  (2) Classification: Criminal intelligence information is classified according to the following system:  (a) Sensitive:  (A) The classification, sensitive, is assigned by the contributor agency or by the CIUS in consultation with the Chief Counsel, Attorney-in-Charge of the Organized Crime Section or the Chief Investigator and is given only to documents which relate to:  (i) Information pertaining to significant law enforcement cases currently under investigation;  (ii) Public Corruption;  (iii) Informant identification information;  (iv) Criminal intelligence reports which require strict dissemination and release criteria;  (v) Documents which have been designated sensitive by another law enforcement agency;  (vi) A document bearing this classification cannot be disseminated without the approval of the contributor agency. When the Oregon Department of Justice is the contributor agency, a document bearing this classification cannot be disseminated without the approval of the Chief Counsel, Attorney-in-Charge of the Organized Crime Section or the Chief Investigator.  (b) Confidential:  (A) The classification, confidential, is assigned by the contributor agency or the CIUS and is given to the following documents:  (i) Criminal intelligence reports which are not designated sensitive;  (ii) Information obtained through intelligence unit channels which is not classified sensitive and is for law enforcement intelligence use only;  (iii) Documents which describe ongoing investigatory projects and open investigations;  (iv) Documents which describe law enforcement strategies and techniques;  (v) Documents which have been designated confidential by another law enforcement agency.  (B) A document bearing this classification can be released with the approval of the contributor agency.  (c) Restricted:  (A) The classification, restricted, is assigned by the contributor agency or the CIUS and is given to documents of general use in the CIU such as reports that at an earlier date were classified sensitive or confidential and the need for high level security no longer exists or non-confidential information prepared for/by law enforcement agencies;  (B) A document bearing this classification can be released for general law enforcement use with the approval of the CIUS.  (d) Unclassified: The classification, unclassified, is assigned by the CIUS and is used to identify documents of a public nature. Examples of unclassified materials include non-news related information to which, in its original form, the general public had direct access (i.e., birth and death certificates, corporation papers, etc.) and news media information such as newspapers, magazine and periodical clippings dealing with specified criminal categories. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.610(2), (3), (4), 181.575 & 28 CFR §23.20 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2000, f. & cert. ef. 8-9-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 2-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
