



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 BINGO/RAFFLES/MONTE CARLO 
 137-025-0184 
 Linked Progressive Games — Manner of Conducting 
 
 (1) A licensee shall activate the linked progressive bingo game equipment in its possession in order to host or participate in a linked progressive bingo game and the system equipment shall record and maintain a record of the number of such games hosted or in which the licensee participated.  (2) A winning player must have achieved bingo on the last number called. A progressive bingo game can be played within or as an accompaniment to any other primary bingo game; however, if a winning player achieves the primary bingo on the last number called then the system equipment shall display the winning bingo card for viewing by the players at the location and if a primary bingo is verified, regardless of whether it also qualifies for the progressive prize, that particular linked progressive bingo game is also concluded.  (3) As each linked progressive bingo game is played at a participating licensed location, the bingo prize shall be increased by designated payments per licensee and participating locations will be notified of the increased amount of the progressive prize.  (4) If a linked progressive bingo game is played in conjunction with a standardized non-linked game and a player is charged an extra fee to participate in the linked progressive bingo game, the Linked Progressive Bingo Game Contractor shall operate the linked progressive game in a manner so that it can be verified that any winning player did pay the extra fee to participate in the linked progressive game.  (5) When a linked progressive bingo game winner is initially verified, the Linked Progressive Bingo Game Contractor equipment shall immediately be activated to notify the other participating licensee halls of a likely winner and the players shall be made aware that the progressive prize amount has been frozen. Once the contractor and the host licensee have completed all appropriate activities to verify the winner, the escrow agent shall be notified and the prize shall be reset to the advertised minimum plus any increases due to sales after the prize was frozen. The licensee hosting the game which produced the winner shall obtain all relevant federal W2G form information from the winner. The licensee shall also obtain information as to whether the winner prefers to receive the prize check from the licensee, from the escrow agent or by certified and insured mail delivery at an address provided by the winner. The licensee shall immediately transmit the above information, along with a statement of the amount of the prize, to the escrow agent.  (6) Linked Progressive Bingo Game Escrow Agents may charge the Linked Progressive Bingo Contractor a reasonable fee for their services.  (7) The escrow agent shall establish a "sweep account" with a commercial bank with branch offices throughout Oregon. All participating licensees will be notified as to the identity of the commercial bank. Participating licensees shall establish an account for prize pool contributions at a local branch of the commercial bank and shall execute the necessary documents so that the sums deposited may be swept by the escrow agent, into the sweep account. Participating licensees shall transfer the required prize pool contribution no later than three business days from the date a linked progressive bingo game was conducted.  (8) The escrow agent shall immediately notify the Department if a participating licensee fails to transfer a scheduled prize pool deposit for a linked progressive bingo game. The Department shall immediately notify the licensee of the delinquency and if the delinquent amount is not paid within two business days, the Department shall notify the Linked Progressive Bingo Game Contractor to terminate the licensee's access to the game.  (9) The Department may direct the Linked Progressive Bingo Game Contractor to renew the delinquent licensee's access to the game if the Department has received confirmation that the licensee has contributed the full amount of the delinquency plus a $100 delinquency fee to the licensee's prize pool contribution account. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 167.117(10) & (12), 464.250(1) & 914 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 716 & 2003 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 8-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-19-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
