



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 345 EMPLOYMENT SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH INTELLECTUAL OR DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES 
 411-345-0145 
 Entry Requirements for a Provider Agency 
 
 (1) An entry meeting must occur, upon request from an individual, the individual's provider agency, or any member of the individual's ISP team, when the individual begins employment services with a new provider. 

 (2) Prior to the delivery of employment services, or at the entry meeting, a provider agency must acquire or demonstrate efforts to acquire, and maintain the following information related to the delivery of employment services so long as the individual has agreed to share the information with the provider agency: 

 (a) A copy of the individual's Career Development Plan and either a Service Agreement or relevant portions of the ISP, including the following: 

 (A) Information regarding identified relevant risks. The risks are relevant when they may reasonably be expected to threaten the health and safety of the individual, the provider, or the community at large without appropriate precautions during the delivery of the employment service authorized. If an individual refuses to disclose the information, the case management entity must disclose the refusal to the provider, who may choose to refuse to deliver the services. 

 (B) Relevant protocols or mitigation strategies. 

 (C) Any existing information from the person-centered information document or one-page profile that is relevant for employment services. 

 (D) Any other employment related information in the Career Development Plan. 

 (b) All information related to the individual's employment goals and interests including, but not limited to, the following (if available): 

 (A) Resume or work history information. 

 (B) Progress notes or outcome documents from Department-funded employment services. 

 (C) Documentation available through Vocational Rehabilitation or the local education authority or transition program. 

 (D) Discovery Profile (if applicable). 

 (E) Any other information related to the individual's skills and interests related to employment. 

 (c) For an agency provider, any of the following documents if related to an identified relevant risk: 

 (A) A document indicating safety skills, including the ability of the individual to evacuate from a building when warned by a signal device and adjust water temperature for washing; 

 (B) A brief written history of any behavioral challenges, including supervision and support needs; 

 (C) A copy of the most recent Behavior Support Plan and assessment, Nursing Plan, and mental health treatment plan (if applicable); 

 (D) Copies of protocols, the risk tracking record or risk identification tool, and any support documentation (if applicable); 
(E) Copies of documents relating to court orders, probation and parole information, or any other legal restrictions on the rights of the individual (if applicable); 
(F) A copy of any completed and signed forms documenting consent to an individually-based limitation described in OAR 411-004-0040. The form must be signed by the individual, and, if applicable the legal representative of the individual; 
(G) Copies of documents relating to health care representation; 
(H) Emergency contact information; 
(I) Records describing medication taken by the individual that emergency medical personnel must be aware of in the event of an emergency; and 

 (J) A list that describes any allergies that emergency medical personnel must be aware of in the event of any emergency. 

 (d) Any other documentation the individual has agreed needs to be shared for the delivery of employment services. 

 (3) A provider agency must develop and share the following information with an individual and the individual's case manager: 

 (a) A written plan or implementation strategies for each employment service. The plan or strategies become part of an individual's Career Development Plan as well as the Service Agreement or Job Description. The written strategies for service implementation must be given to an individual and individual’s case manager within 60 calendar days of providing services for the ISP year. 

 (b) A mitigation strategy or protocol that addresses each identified relevant risk. Risk mitigation strategies or protocols must be given to the individual and individual’s case manager before services begin for the ISP year. 

 (c) Other documents requested by the ISP team. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 427.007 & 427.104 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 427.007, 427.104 & 427.154 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 41-2019, amend filed 10/29/2019, effective 11/01/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 33-2017, adopt filed 12/29/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
