



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 57 PESTICIDE CONTROL 
 603-057-0418 
 Requests for Pesticide Use Information 
 
 (1) An agency seeking confidential information shall make a formal written request to the Department that shall:  (a) Identify the requesting agency.  (b) Identify the Principal Investigator for the agency.  (c) Describe the information sought.  (d) Explain the reason for requesting the information, including the use that will be made of the requested information.  (e) Include a completed and signed confidentiality agreement prepared by the Department.  (f) Identify each person having access to the information, and the position of each person within the agency.  (g) Identify the person responsible for maintaining the security of the information.  (h) Explain the procedures by which the requesting agency will assure the confidentiality of the information.  (2) A health or environmental researcher acting in an official capacity from an accredited university seeking confidential information shall make a formal written request to the Department that shall:  (a) Describe the information sought.  (b) Describe the research being conducted, including identity of the Principal Investigator, purpose of the research and the use that will be made of the requested information.  (c) Include a copy of the university’s formal review and signed acceptance of the research project.  (d) Include a completed and signed confidentiality agreement prepared by the Department.  (e) Identify each person having access to the information, and the position of each person within the university.  (f) Describe the procedures by which the requesting researcher and university will assure the confidentiality of the information.  (3) A health or environmental researcher acting in an official capacity from an accepted research institute seeking access to confidential information shall make a formal written request to the Department which shall be equivalent in content to (2) above.  (4) The Department will consider each request for pesticide use information, as described in (1), (2) and (3) above, as follows:  (a) The Department will respond to the request within 30 days of receipt of the request.  (b) The Department, in its discretion, may request more detailed explanations in the request for information before considering it.  (c) If the request is approved, the requested information may be released to the requestor. The Department will release only the information that is directly pertinent to the research project or agency need. Information will be released in a manner that achieves the highest level of confidentiality but still provides pertinent data.  (d) If the request is denied, the requester will be informed of the basis for denial.  (5) Any breach of the confidentiality agreement as determined by the Department, may result in a civil penalty as set forth in 603-057-0420. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 634, 561.190 & Ch. 1059 OL 1999 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Ch. 1059 OL 1999 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 27-2001, f. & cert. ef. 12-4-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
