



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 282 ELECTRICAL AND ELEVATOR LICENSING 
 918-282-0015 
 Electrical Contractor's Responsibilities 
 
 Electrical contractors engaged in the business of making electrical installations that require a signing supervising electrician shall assure that all electrical work is made by, or under the direct supervision or control of, a continuously employed full-time signing supervising electrician acting within the scope of their license.  (1) Signing supervising electricians shall perform supervisory duties for only one contractor for which they are registered. Registered signing supervising electricians shall provide direct supervision or control through one of the following:  (a) Be on the job site;  (b) Have on the job site a continuously employed full-time supervising electrician; or  (c) Be available in person, or have a supervising electrician available to meet with the jurisdictional inspector at the job site within two business days following the request.  (2) Electrical contractors who have more than one designated continuously employed full-time signing supervising electrician shall assign only one signing supervising electrician responsibility for the work being performed under each valid permit.  (3) When an electrical contractor has only one designated signing supervising electrician, the electrical contractor may not use a different signing supervising electrician until the designated signing supervising electrician has discontinued the signing supervising electrician responsibilities and written notice has been provided to the division. The electrical contractor shall not continue electrical work until another signing supervising electrician is employed and written notification is provided to the division.  (4) Electrical contractors shall notify the division in writing who their signing supervising electrician(s) is. Notification shall be provided within five days of entering into or termination of that relationship.  (5) Worker leasing companies, as defined in ORS 656.850, shall notify the division within five business days of any contractual relationship or change in a contractual relationship with an electrical contractor. Notification shall include the name of the electrical contractor and a list of employed licensed electricians, including signing supervising electricians, leased to the electrical contractor. Electrical contractors and signing supervising electricians who utilize worker leasing companies are responsible for assuring compliance with the provisions of ORS Chapter 479 and the rules adopted thereunder. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.630 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.730 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 5-2001, f. 6-7-01, cert. ef. 7-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
