



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 TRADE PRACTICES 
 836-080-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) "Direct-response solicitation" means a solicitation through a sponsoring or endorsing entity or individually solely through mails, telephone, the Internet or other mass communication media.  (2) "Existing insurer" means the insurer whose policy or contract is or will be changed or affected in a manner described within the definition of "replacement."  (3) "Existing policy" means an individual life insurance policy or annuity policy in force, including a policy under a binding or conditional receipt or a policy that is within an unconditional refund period.  (4) "Financed purchase" means the purchase of a new policy involving the actual or intended use of funds obtained by the withdrawal or surrender of, or by borrowing from values of an existing policy to pay all or part of any premium due on the new policy. For purposes of a regulatory review of an individual transaction only, if a withdrawal, surrender or borrowing involving the policy values of an existing policy is used to pay premiums on a new policy owned by the same policyholder and issued by the same insurer within four months before or 13 months after the effective date of the new policy, it will be deemed prima facie evidence of the policyholder's intent to finance the purchase of the new policy with existing policy values. This prima facie standard is not intended to increase or decrease the monitoring obligations contained in OAR 836-080-0022(1)(e).  (5) "Illustration" means a presentation or depiction that includes non-guaranteed elements of a policy of life insurance over a period of years as defined in OAR 836-051-0500 to 836-051-0600.  (6) "Policy summary" has the following meanings:  (a) For policies or contracts other than universal life policies, the term means a written statement regarding a policy or contract that shall contain to the extent applicable, but need not be limited to, the following information: current death benefit; annual contract premium; current cash surrender value; current dividend; application of current dividend; and amount of outstanding loan.  (b) For universal life policies, the term means a written statement that shall contain at least the following information: the beginning and end date of the current report period; the policy value at the end of the previous report period and at the end of the current report period; the total amounts that have been credited or debited to the policy value during the current report period, identifying each by type (e.g., interest, mortality, expense and riders); the current death benefit at the end of the current report period on each life covered by the policy; the net cash surrender value of the policy as of the end of the current report period; and the amount of outstanding loans, if any, as of the end of the current report period.  (7) "Registered Contract" means a variable annuity contract or variable life insurance policy subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.  (8) "Replacement" means a transaction in which a new policy or contract is to be purchased, and it is known or should be known to the proposing insurance producer, or to the proposing insurer if there is no insurance producer, that by reason of the transaction, an existing policy or contract has been or is to be:  (a) Lapsed, forfeited, surrendered or partially surrendered, assigned to the replacing insurer or otherwise terminated;  (b) Converted to reduced paid-up insurance, continued as extended term insurance, or otherwise reduced in value by the use of nonforfeiture benefits or other policy values;  (c) Amended so as to effect either a reduction in benefits or in the term for which coverage would otherwise remain in force or for which benefits would be paid;  (d) Reissued with any reduction in cash value; or  (e) Used in a financed purchase.  (9) "Replacing Insurer" means the insurer that issues or proposes to issue a new policy or contract that replaces an existing policy or contract or that is a financed purchase.  (10) "Sales material" means a sales illustration and any other written, printed or electronically presented information created, or completed or provided by the insurer or insurance producer and used in the presentation to the policyholder or contract owner related to the policy or contract purchased. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 746.085 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 8-2005, f. 5-18-05, cert. ef. 8-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 5-2001, f. 4-16-01, cert. ef. 11-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 IC 8-1984, f. 10-26-84, ef. 12-1-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 IC 39, f. 12-4-67, ef. 3-1-68 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
