



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 SURFACE WATER REGISTRATIONS  AND THE ADJUDICATION PROCESS 
 690-028-0080 
 Responsibilities to Circuit Court 
 
 (1) The Director shall prepare findings of fact and an order of determination of all of the claims within the general stream basin. The original documentation and certified copies of the observations, measurements, and maps shall be submitted to the Circuit Court with the findings of fact and order of determination.  (2) The Director shall send a notice of the Court hearing date to all parties as provided in ORS 539.130.  (3) The Director shall participate in the hearings on the findings and in hearings on exceptions to the findings, if any. If the findings are remanded to the Department, the Director shall collect such additional documentation as is necessary to establish the facts or to resolve conflicts. The Director may amend the findings and shall submit the amended findings and order of determination back to the Court for reconsideration.  (4) After the court has affirmed or modified the findings of fact and order of determination of the Director and the Director has received a certified copy of the decree, the watermasters shall enforce the rights as evidenced in the decree.  (5) The Director shall allow a six-month period to pass to allow for appeal of the Court’s decision. When all appeals have been resolved the Director shall issue a certificate to each water right holder as provided in the decree or as modified in the appeals process. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 539 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 10-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
