



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 Middle Housing in Medium and Large Cities 
 660-046-0330 
 Parameters 
 
 (1) Infrastructure, as defined in OAR 660-046-0320(4) and as described in more detail in OAR 660-046-0340, is eligible as a basis for an IBTER application. An infrastructure deficiency is not significant if it would be addressed with infrastructure improvements required in conjunction with the development of a single-family dwelling. 

 (2) If a local government is currently unable to issue any new permits for residential development due to a jurisdiction-wide significant infrastructure deficiency, the local government must address that situation through the moratorium process provided in ORS 197.505 through ORS 197.540. The department will not approve IBTER applications that address this type of situation. 

 (3) If a local government intends to continue permitting new single family detached dwellings or other development allowed by the current zoning within the area that has a significant infrastructure deficiency while deferring middle housing development within the area, the local government shall demonstrate that the additional infrastructure demand created by middle housing development would cause an unacceptable service level of the infrastructure, or shall provide other valid justification for allowing other development in the subject area while prohibiting middle housing development until the significant infrastructure deficiency is addressed. 

 (4) For the purpose of estimating the additional impacts of middle housing development on infrastructure, the local government may assume the following increases in residential development that would create additional impacts upon an area that is significantly infrastructure deficient over the period ending December 31, 2023: 

 (a) The local government shall prepare the baseline estimate for the number of dwelling units per acre produced within a residential zoning district by following the process described in ORS 197.296(5)(a)(A). A local government may add units produced by middle housing allowances, as described in subsections (b) through (f) to estimate residential infrastructure demand within a specified area. A local government may include additional infrastructure demand from other existing uses within the service area, such as higher density housing, schools, businesses, industrial uses, or other uses to estimate a total infrastructure service demand within the area that has a significant infrastructure deficiency.   

 (b) Infill and redevelopment areas may assume a one percent increase in the number of dwelling units produced due to middle housing allowances within the specified residential zone(s), above the baseline estimate described in subsection (a) prior to adoption of middle housing allowances. If some types of middle housing are currently allowed in a residential zone, the local government must adjust the anticipated increase for that area to an estimated fraction of one percent representing additional housing production from the middle housing types that are not currently allowed. 

 (c) Undeveloped and underdeveloped areas may assume a three percent increase in the number of dwelling units produced due to middle housing allowances within the specified residential zone(s), above the baseline estimate described in subsection (a) prior to adoption of middle housing allowances. If some types of middle housing are currently allowed in a residential zone, the local government must adjust the anticipated increase to an estimated fraction of three percent representing additional housing production from the middle housing types that are not currently allowed. 

 (d) The local government may project an increase in anticipated middle housing residential development above the thresholds identified in subsections (b) or (c) if it provides quantifiable validation of such an increase. For local governments located outside a metropolitan service district, the standards for demonstration of a quantifiable validation are provided in subsection (e). For local governments within a metropolitan service district, the standards for demonstration of a quantifiable validation are provided in subsection (f). 

 (e) A local government located outside a metropolitan service district may provide a quantifiable validation by demonstrating an actual increase in residential dwelling units produced above the rates anticipated in subsections (b) and (c), within a zone that allows densities that are no higher than those that would be allowed with adopted middle housing provisions. The evidence may be derived from an existing zone within the local government’s jurisdiction, or from another local government within 25 miles of the subject local government. 

 (f) A local government located inside a metropolitan service district may provide a quantifiable validation by demonstrating an actual increase in residential dwelling units produced above the rates anticipated in subsections (b) and (c), within a zone that allows densities that are no higher than those that would be allowed with adopted middle housing provisions. The evidence may be derived from an existing zone within the local government’s jurisdiction, or from another local government within the metropolitan service district. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 & OR Laws 2019, chapter 639, section 4(6) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.758 & OR Laws 2019, chapter 639, sections 3 and 4 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 14-2020, adopt filed 08/07/2020, effective 08/07/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
