



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 32 OREGON SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM 
 734-032-0020 
 Terminology 
 
 The following terminology shall be used when applying the criteria in this division:  (1) Agriculture/Forestry — Crops, wineries, vineyards, ranches, fisheries, old-growth and reforested lands.  (2) Color — Overall color(s) of the basic components of the landscape (e.g., soil, rock, vegetation, etc.) as they appear during the seasons or periods of high use. Key factors are variety, contrast and harmony.  (3) Driveability — Driving safety, ease and pleasure as related to road standards (e.g., lane and shoulder width, traffic character, etc.)  (4) Landform — Topography becomes more interesting as it gets steeper or more massive, or more severely sculptured. Outstanding landforms may be monumental or exceedingly artistic and subtle.  (5) Modifications — Modifications in the landform, water, vegetation or addition of structures that detract from or complement the scenic quality.  (6) Natural — This includes natural features such as geologic formations, wildlife sites, waterfalls, lake basins, old-growth stands, mountain meadows, etc.  (7) Paved — Hard surfaces such as concrete or bituminous.  (8) Uniqueness/Scarcity — The relative scarcity or abundance of a particular unique scenic resource or combination of features within the geographic region.  (9) Vegetation — Forest, prairies, orchards, active farm cropland and tree farms. Consider variety of patterns, form and textures created by plant life. Consider smaller scale vegetational features which add striking and intriguing detail elements to the landscape.  (10) Water — Ocean, rivers, lakes, waterfalls,rapids, marshes, canals and harbors. That ingredient which adds movement or serenity to a scene. The degree to which water dominates the scene. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.617 & 184.619 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1994, f. & ef. 12-29-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
