



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Salmon Commission - Chapter 646 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 REPORTING AND PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS DUE THE OREGON SALMON COMMISSION 
 646-010-0015 
 Report and Payment of Assessment Moneys 
 
 (1) First purchasers and handlers must submit completed and signed assessment reports on commission approved forms. Assessment reports shall include all purchases by or deliveries to a first purchaser of troll caught ocean salmon in the previous month. Assessment reports are due in the commission office postmarked on or before the 20th day of each month.  EXAMPLE: Assessment reports for April 1–April 31 would be due in the commission office postmarked on or before May 20th.  (2) When a first purchaser or handler has completed, signed and forwarded a report covering his final purchase of troll caught ocean salmon for the year, he shall mark such report in large letters "FINAL REPORT FOR THIS YEAR.” No further reports are necessary by such first purchaser unless or until additional purchases are made. (See section (4) of this rule)  (3) If a first purchaser lives or has his office in another state or is a federal or other governmental agency, the fisherman shall report all sales made to such purchaser on forms provided by and pay the assessment moneys directly to the Commission, unless such first purchaser voluntarily makes the proper deduction and remits the proceeds to the Commission.  (4) At the time that reports are due the Commission from the first purchaser as required in section (1) of this rule, the first purchaser shall attach and forward payment to the Commission for the assessment due as set forth in each report. Reports shall be on forms prescribed by the Commission. The forms shall be signed by the first purchaser and filled in with the required data as shown on such forms, including, but not limited to, the month in which the salmon was taken and delivered in Oregon, the gross poundage received from all fishermen, and the total assessment deducted and withheld.  (5) Any fisherman who performs the handling or processing functions on all or part of his production of the commodity, which normally would be performed by another person as the first purchaser thereof, shall report his sales of such commodity of his own production on forms provided by, and pay the assessment moneys directly to the Commission, unless the first purchaser from such producer voluntarily makes proper deduction and remits the proceeds to the commission. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 576 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSC 1-2001, f. & cert. ef. 8-17-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSC 2-1984, f. & ef. 6-20-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
