



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 410 STATEWIDE WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
 690-410-0010 
 Groundwater Management
 
 
 (1) Policy — The groundwaters of the State of Oregon belong to the public. The reasonable control, protection, and use of groundwater is governed by the state on behalf of the public. Groundwater shall be managed to promote efficient and sustainable use for multiple purposes. Groundwater overdraft and contamination shall be prevented to avoid health hazards, environmental damage, and costly correction programs. Interference between groundwater uses and competing groundwater and surface water uses shall be prevented and/or controlled to protect the water resource and existing rights. The state shall pursue restoration of contaminated groundwaters to protect present and future uses. Coordinated action by federal, state and local agencies, Indian tribes, and special districts, along with public education, shall be fostered to promote the effective management, protection and beneficial use of groundwater. 

 (2) Principles — Programs to achieve the policy in section (1) of this rule shall be guided by the following principles: 

 (a) Groundwater and surface water shall be managed conjunctively where to do so will protect water resources, existing water rights, and the public interest; 

 (b) Rules governing well construction, maintenance, and abandonment shall provide minimum standards for protection of the public welfare, safety, and health and the groundwaters of the state; 

 (c) Water well constructors, owners, and operators are responsible to construct, alter, maintain, operate, and abandon wells, and any holes through which the groundwater may be contaminated, in accordance with minimum statewide standards and shall undertake measures necessary to prevent waste, undue interference, contamination, or harm to the groundwater; 

 (d) Low-temperature geothermal fluids are part of the groundwater resources of the state and are subject to applicable laws and plans. These fluids are developed primarily for thermal characteristics and may require special management approaches to promote beneficial use, protect the environment and achieve other policy directives; 

 (e) Special-area designations (i.e., critical groundwater management areas, serious water management areas, basin plan restriction areas) may be warranted under conditions such as: 

 (A) Past, existing or probable excessive groundwater level declines or overdraft; 

 (B) Substantial interference between two or more wells or between groundwater and surface water uses (including public instream uses), or between groundwater appropriation and geothermal appropriation under ORS Chapter 522; and 

 (C) Groundwater contamination. 

 (f) Special-area designations shall be invoked when site-specific standards and regulations are no longer sufficient to solve or prevent the problem(s). The invoking of special-area designations shall be accompanied by recommended monitoring, reporting, or regulating activities to prevent, correct or control existing or potential declines, overdraft, interference or contamination. Existing groundwater appropriations, which are generally protected from infringement, may be controlled if any of the conditions listed in subsection (2)(e) of this rule are found to exist; 

 (g) Groundwater appropriation for artificial recharge is a beneficial use and can be approved if such action will not: 

 (A) Cause significant adverse effects on the quantity or quality of the supplying and receiving water sources; or 

 (B) Harm the public interest. 

 (h) Ongoing collection, analysis, and distribution of hydrogeologic information are necessary to manage groundwater for maximum beneficial use and to protect the public welfare, safety, and health; 

 (i) Public education programs, research, and demonstration projects are needed to increase citizen awareness of groundwater issues in this state; and 

 (j) Adequate and safe supplies of groundwater for human and livestock consumption are given priority over other uses during times of shortage. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 536 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-2024, minor correction filed 02/22/2024, effective 02/22/2024 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 12-1992, f. & cert. ef. 9-9-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRC 6-1992(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 3-19-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 8-1990, f. & cert. ef. 6-25-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
