



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Workers' Compensation Board - Chapter 438 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 PROCEDURES PRIOR TO HEARING IN ORDINARY CASES 
 438-006-0078 
 Request for Expedited Hearing
 
 
 (1) If it is alleged that the claimant is suffering a financial hardship or medical hardship, the claimant may file with the Presiding Administrative Law Judge with copies to the insurer, a written motion asserting the hardship and requesting an expedited hearing: 

 (a) For purposes of this rule, “financial hardship” means that the claimant is receiving neither compensation nor regular wages nor other income in lieu of wages which is comparable in amount to compensation; 

 (b) For purposes of this rule, “medical hardship” means that the claimant’s condition will permanently and irreversibly deteriorate if the hearing is scheduled in the ordinary course of business and that such deterioration may be avoided by scheduling the hearing at an earlier date. 

 (2) A motion for expedited hearing shall be accompanied with supporting evidence: 

 (a) If the motion is based on financial hardship, supporting evidence shall include an affidavit from claimant or family member establishing such hardship; 

 (b) If the motion is based on medical hardship, supporting evidence shall include a medical report from the attending physician establishing medical hardship. 

 (3) A motion for expedited hearing shall state whether opposing counsel (or the party if the party is not represented by counsel), objects to, concurs in or has no comment regarding the motion. 

 (4) If opposing counsel (or the party if the party is not represented by counsel) concurs with the motion, the motion shall be accompanied by three mutually suitable dates for an expedited hearing. 

 (5) If opposing counsel (of the party if the party is not represented by counsel) either objects to the motion or has no comment, counsel for the moving party shall arrange and place a conference telephone call with the Presiding Administrative Law Judge or designee and counsel for the parties. 

 (6) Within a reasonable time after receipt of the motion for expedited hearing and completion of the telephone call, if required, the Presiding Administrative Law Judge or designee shall notify the parties in writing of the Administrative Law Judge’s ruling: 

 (a) If the motion is granted, the Presiding Administrative Law Judge or designee shall also notify the parties of the date for the expedited hearing; 

 (b) If the motion is denied, hearing shall be held on a date scheduled in the ordinary course of business. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.283(1) & 656.726(4) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 6-2022, minor correction filed 03/15/2022, effective 03/15/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 5-1991, f. 8-22-91, cert. ef. 9-2-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
