



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 56 HAY AND SEED 
 603-056-0431 
 Chemically Treated Seed 
 
 (1) As used in this rule:  (a) “Treated seed” means agricultural seed, including grain intended for planting purposes, and vegetable seed, which have been injected, coated, sprayed or otherwise intentionally exposed to a pesticide as defined in ORS 634.006(8);  (b) “Common name of the pesticide” means the name or abbreviation of a name of the substance as it appears on the pesticide label.  (2) In addition to the labeling requirements of ORS 633.520, 633.531 and 633.541, each container of treated seed shall:  (a) Be labeled in compliance with any direction for labeling treated seed as indicated on the label of the seed treatment pesticide;  (b) Be clearly labeled that the seed has been treated, e.g., “treated seed — (common name of the pesticide),” “this seed treated with (common name of the pesticide)”; “(common name of the pesticide) treated,” or “treated with (common name of the pesticide) — do not use for feed.” If there is no common name of the pesticide the generally known chemical name, or abbreviation of the name, shall be used. The term “mercurial,” “mercury,” “mercury compound,” or “mercurial seed treatment” may be used as the common name of the seed treatment pesticide containing mercury or a form of mercury.  (3) In addition to the labeling requirements of section (2) of this rule, if the seed treatment pesticide is one determined to be harmful to humans or other vertebrate animals, then the containers of the treated seed shall:  (a) Be labeled with a sign of a skull and crossbones, and the word “Poison” printed in red on a white background or the reverse thereof;  (b) Be labeled with a warning or caution statement identifying the particular hazards involved in handling the treated seed (e.g., skin contact, inhalation, swallowing), and a statement of any known characteristics of poison from the pesticide along with the identity of an antidote and method of administering it, which label shall substantially conform to the same information on the label of the seed treatment pesticide.  (4) Only those pesticides registered for seed treatment purposes by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or by the Department may be used for seed treatment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 633 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 633.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 8-1983, f. & ef. 7-19-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
