



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OR HOLDING OPERATIONS 
 340-051-0015 
 New, Modified or Expanded Facilities and Operations 
 
 A person constructing or commencing to operate a confined animal feeding operation or waste water control facility, or substantially modifying or expanding an existing confined animal feeding operation or waste water control facility shall first submit detailed plans and specifications for said facility and operation and other necessary information to the Department and obtain approval for the proposed facility and operation from the Department in writing:  (1) Plans and specifications and other information to be submitted will constitute a complete, descriptive proposal and should include, to the extent that such information is pertinent and available, the following:  (a) Location map showing ownership, zoning and use of adjacent lands and location of the proposed confined animal feeding operation in relation to residences and domestic water supply sources;  (b) Topographic map of the proposed site showing the natural drainage pattern and the proposed surface water diversion and area and roof drainage control system or systems;  (c) Climatological data for the proposed site describing normal annual and seasonal precipitation quantities and patterns, evaporation rates and prevailing winds;  (d) Information regarding the occurrence of usable groundwaters and typical soil types in the area of the proposed site and disposal areas;  (e) Estimated maximum numbers and types of animals to be confined at the site at any one time and estimated volume of wastes to be collected and disposed of;  (f) Detailed plans and specifications and procedures for wastewater and manure collection, handling, retention, storage, treatment and disposal systems;  (g) Details of feed preparation, storage, handling and use and proposed methods and facilities for controlling wastes that are likely to result therefrom;  (h) Any additional information that the Department may reasonably require to enable it to pass intelligently upon the effects of the proposed confined animal feeding operation upon environmental quality.  (2) Receipt of applications and a preliminary evaluation of completeness shall be made within 14 days to all applicants. Written notice of approval or disapproval will be issued by the Department to the applicant within 45 days of receipt of complete plans and specifications. Any notice of disapproval will contain itemized deficiencies.  (3) New or substantially modified or expanded facilities or operations must be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications as approved in writing by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & 468B.200 - 468B.230 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468B.200 - 468B.300 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 12-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-2-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 34, f. 2-3-72, ef. 2-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
