



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 CASE MANAGEMENT — PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY 
 413-030-0016 
 Requirements for the Family Support Services Case Plan
 
 
 (1) The caseworker must analyze the information gathered during the determination of service needs to develop a family support services case plan . The family support services case plan must include all of the following information: 

 (a) Family composition, which includes identifying information for: 

 (A) Each parent, guardian, or Indian custodian , and the children of the parent, guardian, or Indian custodian ; 

 (B) The former foster child who is 18 years or older and their child , if the former foster child is parenting a child ; or 

 (C) A young adult entering into a Voluntary Placement Agreement for a Young Adult with the Department. 

 (b) Conditions identified in the screening or intake referral information. 

 (c) Determination of service need. 

 (d) Service goals and activities. 

 (e) Services, related to a child , young adult, or former foster child in substitute care , as applicable , which include: 

 (A) Placement information; 

 (B) Routine and specialized medical, dental, and mental health services; 

 (C) Education services, including the school and any special education needs of the child , young adult or former foster child ; and          

 (D) A plan for visitation and contact between the child and their parents, guardians or Indian Custodian. 

 (f) Services the Department will provide including: 

 (A) Case oversight and routine contact with the parent, guardian, or Indian custodian and the child , young adult, or the former foster child . 

 (B) When the court has ordered the Department to provide services to a pre-adjudicated delinquent, routine contact with juvenile department staff, parents or guardians, and the child . 

 (C) When the child is in substitute care , arranging visitation for the parents or guardians and the child . 

 (D) Timely referral, access to, and use of culturally appropriate services and service providers to address the identified needs, to the extent that resources are available. 

 (E) Timely preparation of reports to the court or other service providers that may be required. 

 (g) A statement of the conditions for which the Department will close the family support services case. 

 (h) Review date. The family support services case plan is reviewed with the parent, guardian Indian Custodian, young adult, or former foster child every 90 days; however, the caseworker and the parent, guardian, Indian Custodian, young adult, or former foster child may agree on a review date at any time within the 90-day period. 

 (2) The persons involved with the Department in the development of the family support services case plan must include the young adult, former foster child, or the parent, guardian, or Indian custodian ; and may include the child , other relatives, substitute caregiver , and other professionals, as appropriate. 

 (3) The family support services case plan must include the signature of the caseworker and each parent, guardian, Indian custodian, young adult, or former foster child . 

 (4) Approval and distribution of the family support services case plan. 

 (a) The Child Welfare supervisor must approve and sign the family support services case plan . 

 (b) The caseworker must give a copy of the family support services case plan to the parent, guardian , Indian custodian, young adult, or former foster child as soon as possible but no later than seven days after the family support services case plan is approved by the supervisor. 

 (5) Timeline for family support services case plan development. 

 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the caseworker must develop the family support services case plan within 30 days of the completion of the determination of service needs. 

 (b) The supervisor may authorize an extension of the time for developing the family support services case plan when information essential to the development of the family support services case plan is not yet available due to circumstances beyond the control of the Department. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 & 418.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.005 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 89-2023, amend filed 12/20/2023, effective 12/20/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 4-2007, f. & cert. ef. 3-20-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
