



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 86 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING — ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICES 
 411-086-0010 
 Administrator 
 
 (1) Full-Time. Each licensed nursing facility shall be under the supervision of a full-time Oregon licensed nursing home administrator:  (a) In facilities physically connected with an Oregon licensed general hospital, the nursing home administrator shall be considered “full-time” if the administrator works full-time based on time worked in both nursing facility and hospital, and if the administrator is available to the nursing facility staff on a full-time basis;  (b) In facilities with 40 or fewer beds and which admit only residents requiring intermediate care, a person who meets the requirements for both administrator and director of nursing services (DNS) may function simultaneously in both capacities.  (2) Responsibility:  (a) The administrator shall ensure that the facility uses its resources effectively and efficiently to attain and maintain the highest practicable physical, mental and psychosocial well-being of each resident;  (b) The administrator shall comply with the rules of the Board of Examiners of Nursing Home Administrators;  (c) The administrator shall provide a comprehensive review of Division survey reports and inspections to the licensee.  (3) Temporary Absence of Administrator:  (a) The licensee shall designate, by written policy, an individual who is familiar with the operation of the facility to assume administration in the temporary absence of the administrator. If the designee is the DNS, another RN shall assume the DNS’ responsibilities for this period;  (b) If the absence of the administrator is to exceed 30 days, the facility must notify the Division and obtain approval for the arrangements prior to the absence. The Division shall determine whether a licensed administrator shall serve in the administrator’s absence.  (4) Change of Administrator:  (a) Upon termination of the administrator, the licensee shall immediately replace the administrator with a full-time administrator;  (b) The licensee shall notify the Division and the Board of Examiners of Nursing Home Administrators within seven days from the date the administrator leaves employment of the facility. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070, 410.090 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 678.720 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 19-1990, f. 8-29-90, cert. ef. 10-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
