



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Driver and Motor Vehicle Services Division - Chapter 735 
 
 
 
 
 Division 63 COMMERCIAL DRIVING PRIVILEGE PROVISIONS 
 735-063-0300 
 Restrictions on CDL or CLP
 
 
 DMV will impose specific restrictions of driving privileges that will appear on a driver’s record and on a CDL or a CLP as follows: 

 (1) L — No CMV with air brake. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV equipped with brakes that operate solely or partially by air pressure. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL or CLP if an applicant has not passed or fails the air brake knowledge test or takes the CDL skills test in a vehicle not equipped with air brakes. 

 (2) Z — No full air brake CMV. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV equipped with brakes that operate solely by air pressure. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL if the applicant takes the skills test in a vehicle equipped with air over hydraulic brakes. 

 (3) E — Automatic transmission CMV. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV that is equipped with a manual transmission. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL if the applicant takes the skills test in a vehicle equipped with an automatic transmission. 

 (4) O — No tractor trailer. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV in combination with any other vehicle using a fifth wheel hitch between the power unit and the first towed unit. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL if the applicant takes the skills test in a combination vehicle for a Class A CDL with the power unit and towed unit connected with a pintle hook or other non-fifth wheel connection. 

 (5) K — CMV intrastate only. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV for purposes of interstate commerce. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL or CLP if the driver is between 18 and 21 years of age, if the person fails to meet the medical qualification needed to operate interstate but has been issued an Oregon Waiver of Physical Disqualification, or if the person certifies to a driving type of non-excepted intrastate. 

 (6) M — No A passenger CMV. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a passenger vehicle requiring a Class A CDL. DMV will place this restriction on a CLP if the applicant has a Class B CLP with a passenger endorsement. DMV will place this restriction on a Class A or B CDL if an applicant takes the skills test in a Class B passenger vehicle. 

 (7) N — No A or B passenger CMV. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a passenger vehicle requiring a Class A or Class B CDL. DMV will place this restriction on a CLP if the applicant has a Class C CLP with a passenger endorsement. DMV will place this restriction on any CDL if an applicant takes the skills test in a Class C passenger vehicle. 

 (8) V — Federal medical variance. DMV will place this restriction on a CDL or CLP if the applicant has a notice of exemption or SPE certificate issued by FMSCA as described in OAR 735-063-0220(1). 

 (9) P — No passenger in CMV bus. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a CMV carrying passengers, other than federal or state auditors and inspectors, test examiners, other trainees and the CDL holder accompanying the CLP holder. DMV will place this restriction on a CLP when the CLP has a passenger endorsement. 

 (10) X — No cargo in tank CMV. This restriction prohibits the driver from operating a tank vehicle with cargo. DMV will place this restriction on a CLP when the CLP has a tank endorsement. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 802.010 & 807.120 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 807.120 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMV 32-2018, minor correction filed 08/16/2018, effective 08/16/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMV 4-2016, f. 9-22-16, cert. ef. 9-26-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
