



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Elections Division - Chapter 165 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 VOTER REGISTRATION 
 165-005-0130 
 Residence Address Disclosure Exemption 
 
 (1) The purpose of this rule is to define when a county elections official may exempt the residence address of an elector from disclosure as a public record.  (2) The terms used in this rule shall have the same meaning as defined in ORS Chapters 246 through 260, commonly referred to as "Oregon Election Laws".  (3) An elector may request that a county elections official not disclose the residence address of the elector. If the elector demonstrates to the satisfaction of the county elections official that the personal safety of the elector, or the personal safety of a family member residing with the elector, is in danger if the residence address remains available for public inspection, the county elections official shall not disclose that information except in compliance with a court order, a request by a law enforcement agency, or with the consent of the elector.  (4) An exemption from disclosure granted under this rule shall include the residence address on the elector's voter registration record, registration lists produced in accordance with ORS 247.940 and 247.945, poll books, and any other material produced or maintained by the county elections official which is available for public inspection that may reveal the requestor's residence address. The elector's mailing address may be used in place of the exempt residence address.  (5) A request under section (3) of this rule shall be submitted to the county elections official. The exemption request shall be submitted on form SEL 550 Application to Exempt Residence Address from Disclosure. The request shall be in writing, signed by the elector, and shall include:  (a) The name of the elector requesting exemption;  (b) A non-exempt mailing address for the elector; and  (c) Evidence sufficient to establish to the satisfaction of the county elections official that disclosure of the elector's residence address would constitute a danger to the personal safety of the elector, or of a family member residing with the elector. Such evidence may include copies of the following documents:  (A) An affidavit, medical records, police reports or court records showing that the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, has been a victim of domestic violence;  (B) A citation or an order issued under ORS 133.055 for the protection of the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (C) An affidavit or police report showing that a law enforcement officer has been contacted concerning domestic violence, other physical abuse, or threatening or harassing letters or telephone calls directed at the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (D) A temporary restraining order or other no-contact order to protect the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, from future physical abuse;  (E) Court records showing that criminal or civil legal proceedings have been filed regarding physical protection for the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (F) A citation or a court's stalking protective order pursuant to ORS 163.735 or 163.738, obtained for the protection of the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (G) An affidavit or police report showing that the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, has been a victim of a person convicted of the crime of stalking or of violating a court's stalking protective order;  (H) A conditional release agreement issued under ORS 135.250–135.260 providing protection for the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (I) A protective order issued pursuant to ORS 135.873 or 135.970 protecting the identity or place of residence of the elector, or a family member residing with the elector;  (J) An affidavit from a district attorney, or deputy district attorney, stating that the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, is scheduled to testify or has testified as a witness at a criminal trial, grand jury hearing or preliminary hearing, and that such testimony places the personal safety of the witness in danger;  (K) A court order stating that the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, is or has been a party, juror, judge, attorney or involved in some other capacity in a trial, grand jury proceeding or other court proceeding, and that such involvement places the personal safety of that elector in danger; or  (L) Such other documentary evidence that establishes to the satisfaction of the county elections official that disclosure of the elector's residence address would constitute a danger to the personal safety of the elector, or a family member residing with the elector.  (6) The county elections official receiving a request under this rule will promptly review the request and notify the elector, in writing, whether the evidence submitted is sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the county elections official that the personal safety of the elector, or a family member residing with the elector, would be in danger if the residence address remains available for public inspection. The county elections official may request that the elector submit additional information concerning the request.  (7) If a county elections official grants the request to exempt the residence address of an elector from disclosure as a public record, the county elections official must include a statement in its notice to the elector that: the exemption will remain effective until the elector requests termination of the exemption or the elector is required to update the elector's voter registration.  (8) If the elector is required to update the elector's voter registration, the elector may apply for another exemption from disclosure. At the time of updating if no SEL 550 Application To Exempt Residence Address From Disclosure As A Public Record accompanies the voter registration card or is incomplete, the county elections official must send notice, by certified mail return receipt requested, to the elector that states:  (a) Currently the elector's address is non-disclosed; and  (b) If an updated SEL 550 Application To Exempt Residence Address From Disclosure As A Public Record is not received within 10 business days of receipt of the notice, the elector's residence address will not be exempt from disclosure as a public record.  (9) An elector who has requested that a county elections official not disclose his or her residence address may revoke the request by notifying, in writing, the county elections official to which the request was made that disclosure no longer constitutes a danger to personal safety. The notification must be signed by the person who submitted the original request for nondisclosure of the residence address.  (10) Form SEL 550 may be used by a public safety officer, as defined by ORS 181.610, to request that the person's home address, home telephone number and electronic mail address be exempted from disclosure pursuant to 192.501. A public safety officer making such a request is not required to provide information described in paragraph (5)(c).  (11) Form SEL 550 shall be used by a participant or parent or guardian of a participant in the Address Confidentiality Program to request that the elector’s residence address be exempted from disclosure pursuant to ORS 192.842. The form shall be completed by the participant and include:  (a) The name of the elector requesting exemption;  (b) The substitute address provided by the Address Confidentiality Program; and  (c) A copy of the Address Confidentiality Program Authorization Card.  (12) A request under section (11) of this rule is not required to be signed and a copy of the Address Confidentiality Program Authorization Card is the only evidentiary documentation required.  (13) If a participant or parent or guardian of a participant in the Address Confidentiality Program is required to update the elector’s voter registration due to a change in residence address, only an updated voter registration card is required to be completed.  (14) If a participant or parent or guardian of a participant in the Address Confidentiality Program is required to update the elector’s voter registration due to a name change section (8) of this rule applies. If an updated SEL 550 is received in response to the notice in section (8) of this rule it must be accompanied by a copy of the Address Confidentiality Program Authorization Card.  (15) Pursuant to ORS 192.842 the county elections official may not disclose the elector’s residence address, and the county elections official shall use the substitute address of the program participant for purposes of mailing a ballot to an elector under 254.470. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 246.150 & 247.969 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 247.965 & 192.501 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 23-2022, temporary amend filed 08/15/2022, effective 08/16/2022 through 02/10/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 21-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-31-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 9-2007, f. & cert. ef. 12-31-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 18-2006, f. 12-29-06, cert. ef. 1-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 4-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-18-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 8-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-3-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 13-2001, f. & cert. ef. 6-15-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELECT 3-1994, f. & cert. ef. 2-4-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
