



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 CASE MANAGEMENT 
 413-020-0620 
 Policy 
 
 Intake. Any person may make a report that a handicapped infant in a medical facility is not receiving adequate and necessary medical care. Reports which indicate withholding of medical treatment from disabled newborns with life-threatening conditions will be considered an emergency and assigned for investigation within one hour. Each Child Welfare branch will develop local procedures to assure that such reports received after normal work hours will be promptly investigated. Anonymous reports will be accepted at Intake.  (1) Obtain from the reporting person as much of the following information as possible:  (a) Name and address of the hospital;  (b) Name and address of infant and infant’s parents;  (c) The infant’s name and birth date;  (d) The name of the infant’s attending physician;  (e) The condition of the infant and in particular information regarding whether the infant may die or suffer harm within the immediate future if medically indicated treatment is withheld;  (f) The basis of the reporter’s suspicion or belief that medically indicated treatment or appropriate nutrition, hydration, or medication is being or will be withheld;  (g) Name of the person making the report, source of the information, position to have reliable information (i.e., nurse, friend, family member, etc.), address and telephone number.  (2) Criteria to determine if an investigation is indicated:  (a) Would the reported circumstances, if true, constitute “medical neglect”;  (b) Is there reasonable cause to believe that medically indicated treatment is being withheld? This must be based on the condition of the child, health care professional’s statements, information that the parents have refused to consent to treatment, and consultation with the worker’s supervisor;  (c) A Medical Neglect investigator will be contacted to help determine if assignment for a CPS investigation is indicated. (Consultation with a Designated Consultant Neonatologist from a hospital other than the one where the infant is receiving treatment may be utilized at this point.)  (3) Reporting the Alleged Neglect. When a report of suspected medical neglect is received, the local Law Enforcement Agency will be contacted per ORS 419B.020. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.005 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SCF 6-1995, f. 12-22-95, cert. ef. 12-29-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
