



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 COLUMBIA RIVER BASIN WATER DEVELOPMENT LOAN PROGRAM 
 690-095-0060 
 Loan Security 
 
 (1) The director shall require repayment of an approved loan to be secured by a first priority lien or by other good and sufficient collateral as described in ORS 541.740, as applicable to the applicant. The director, in his or her discretion, using the information in an application and any other information available, will determine the security value of the collateral provided under the loan document.  (2) An applicant may demonstrate adequate security or good and sufficient collateral if:  (a) The applicant has ad valorem taxing power that it has exercised and pledged to secure the loan;  (b) The applicant is an individual, profit-making partnership or corporation or non-profit corporation subject to ORS Chapter 65 whose principal income is from farming in Oregon, the loan shall be secured by a mortgage or security agreement in the full amount of the loan and the loan amount does not exceed 70 percent of the appraised value of the security for the loan; or  (c) The applicant is a qualified water developer that is not an individual, profit-making partnership or corporation or non-profit corporation subject to ORS Chapter 65, security may include:  (A) First lien to the State of Oregon attached to the real property of the water developer, and the user charges owed to or received by the water developer;  (B) A lien attached to all real property whether owned by the water developer or others, which is served by the water development project or which is served by a water source enhanced or restored by the water development project; or  (C) An agreement entered into by the water developer wherein assessments, user charges or other revenue is pledged for security of loan repayment and that such revenue shall be maintained at no less than 125 percent of the debt service on the loan.  (d) The commission determines, in consultation with the State Treasurer, that such other good tendered as collateral by the applicant is “sufficient” collateral to secure the loan instead of, or in addition to, a lien.  (3) Real property used for securing the loan shall have been appraised by a licensed appraiser, county assessor, or department appraiser, at the discretion of the director, within six months prior to the date of the letter of intent or if there is no letter of intent, the loan document.  (4) Where the applicant is a water developer described in ORS 541.700(7)(a), (b), (c) or (d), the loan shall be secured by a mortgage or security agreement in the full amount of the loan. The mortgage or security agreement shall be a first lien upon such real property of the water developer as the commission shall require for adequate security. The commission, in consultation with the State Treasurer, may accept other good and sufficient collateral to secure a loan instead of, or in addition to, a lien.  (5) A partial release of lien may be granted by the director upon written request of a borrower if the remaining property provides adequate security as required by law and these rules. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027 & 541.646 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 541-600 - 541.646 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-2010, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
