



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 BATTERER INTERVENTION PROGRAM RULES 
 137-087-0085 
 Research Programs 
 
 (1) Nothing in this section applies to a BIP's disclosure of its own aggregate or non-personally identifying data, or the conduct of its own quality assurance activities.  (2) Research. A BIP may use and disclose participant information for research purposes consistent with this rule. Before making use or disclosure of participant information for research purposes, a BIP shall obtain the following in writing from an independent researcher:  (a) Description of specific actions the researcher shall take to ensure the safety, confidentiality, and autonomy of victims;  (b) An adequate plan to protect participant information from improper use or disclosure;  (c) Description of steps to ensure that any victim or partner participation, or access to information about a victim or partner by the researcher, shall be based solely on the victim's or partner's informed consent obtained in a manner consistent with section (1)(d) of this rule;  (d) Description of steps to ensure that any procedure involving any victim, partner, or family member, and other collateral contacts including but not limited to past or present employers of the research participant, victim or partner, and a request for participation in the research, shall be developed in consultation with a VP to address victim or partner safety;  (e) Description of steps taken to ensure the input and involvement of community-based domestic violence VPs in the design and implementation of the project;  (f) Description of steps to ensure that the research product shall:  (A) Report both positive and negative data about BIP outcomes and the research participants if applicable and acknowledge alternative hypotheses, modalities and explanations;  (B) Include a statement about the limitations of self-reporting in accurately measuring a participant's progress, behavior, or attitudes/beliefs when the research includes information based on self-reporting by participants, including self-reports of program effectiveness; and  (C) Clarify that release for program compliance does not provide any evidence that the participant is presently non-abusive, describe present behavior outside the BIP, or predict future behavior.  (g) Description of a plan to destroy identifiable information at the earliest opportunity or at the conclusion of the research, and to keep confidential any information about, gathered from, or traceable to the victim or partner;  (h) An agreement by the researcher, and his or her agents, not to use or further disclose the research information other than for purposes directly related to the research, and to use appropriate safeguards to prevent misuse of that information;  (i) An agreement by the researcher, and his or her agents, not to publicly identify the research participant or past or current victims or partners; and  (j) An agreement by the researcher to follow federal guidelines relating to Human Subject Research, 45 CFR Part 46, if applicable.  (2) Complaints about Research Conduct. The BIP or other researcher shall make available a person independent of the BIP or other researcher with whom ethical complaints about the conduct of the research can be filed, and establish a procedure for such filing. The BIP or other researcher shall inform both the participant and the victim or partner, and any other person or entity upon request, about the complaint procedure.  (3) Reporting Research. The BIP shall require a researcher conducting research on a BIP or BIPs to advise the LSA and the Council about the nature, scope and intent of the research. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 13-2012, f. 7-31-12, cert. ef. 8-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 16-2005, f. 11-23-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
