



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 385 DISTRICT WATER RIGHT TRANSFERS 
 690-385-2200 
 Standard Map Requirements 
 
 (1) A map certified by the district but which need not be prepared and stamped by a certified water right examiner shall be included with each district transfer application. The map shall meet the following criteria:  (a) The map shall be of permanent quality and shall be printed with dark ink on a white or clear medium that is easily reproduced on a standard copy machine. Color copies that cannot be easily interpreted when copied to black and white will not be accepted except as described in subsection (1)(c) of this rule.  (b) The preferred map size is 8 1/2" x 11" (letter) at the scale of the final proof or adjudication map for the existing right of record, with supplemental detail maps as needed. If a larger map is required to provide sufficient detail, a size of 8 1/2" x 14" (legal) or 11" x 17" (oversized) may be used.  (c) Notwithstanding subsection (1)(a) and (b) of this rule, a district may submit the following types of map to satisfy the application map requirement:  (A) A digital map on a medium and in a format acceptable to the Department; or  (B) A map containing color elements or up to 30" x 30" in size provided five copies of the map are submitted with the application.  (d) The map scale shall be:  (A) 1" = 400';  (B) 1" = 1,320';  (C) The scale of the final proof or adjudication map for the existing right of record, or of the map previously approved by the department as part of a petition under ORS 541.329;  (D) The scale of the county assessor map if the scale is not smaller than 1" = 1,320'; or  (E) Another standard engineering scale if the Department grants advance written or e-mail approval of the use of the scale.  (e) Horizontal field accuracy shall be consistent with standard surveying practices for the purpose of locating and quantifying water rights.  (f) The map shall be plotted to the accuracy consistent with the map scale.  (g) The locations of points of diversion and places of use shall be described by bearing and distance, distance north or south and east or west from a recognized survey corner, or by latitude-longitude coordinates. Latitude-longitude coordinates shall be expressed as either:  (A) Degrees-minutes-seconds with at least one digit after the decimal in the seconds portion (e.g., 42º 32' 15.5"); or  (B) Degrees-decimal with five or more digits after the decimal (e.g., 42.53764º).  (2) The map(s) shall include the following information:  (a) A north arrow, the scale, and clear legend;  (b) The location of each existing and proposed point of diversion or point of appropriation;  (c) For a change in place of use, the location of the authorized and proposed place of use of the water. If the application is for irrigation, nursery use, cranberry use, or other similar uses, the place of use indicated on the map shall be shaded or hachured, and shall show the number of acres in each quarter-quarter section, government lot, or quarter-quarter section as projected within government lots, donation land claims, or other recognized public land survey subdivisions.  (d) The location of any part of the right not involved in the proposed transfer. For transfers involving less than 67 percent of the entire place of use of the right, the map shall include at least the location of the portions of the right not involved in the proposed transfer which are included in the same quarter-quarter sections as the proposed transfer. The applicant shall have the burden of proving the proposed transfer involves less than 67 percent of the entire place of use of the water use subject to transfer. However, the Department may require a greater portion of the use subject to transfer or the entire use subject to transfer be mapped, if necessary to make a determination of potential injury;  (e) Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (2)(c) and (d), for place of use transfers involving a water right on a tract of land of five acres or less, the place of use may be identified on a county assessor map provided:  (A) The county assessor map scale is not smaller than 1" = 1,320';  (B) Tax lot boundaries and numbers are legible;  (C) The map contains a title, legend and appropriate location information, such as public land survey corners or quarter-quarter corners, necessary to accurately locate tax lots by public land survey subdivisions; and  (D) Within each affected tax lot, the map lists and clearly identifies the number of acres for each affected water right transferred from or transferred onto the tax lot.  (f) The location of township, range, section, quarter-quarter section, donation land claim, and other recognized public land survey lines;  (g) Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (1)(f), the general location of main canals, ditches, flumes, pipelines, pumps, or other water delivery features necessary to demonstrate that users are able to put water to beneficial use as proposed by the transfer according to the terms and conditions of the water right;  (h) Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (1)(f), the general location of physical features sufficient to assist in defining the location of the place of use of the water use subject to transfer. These features may include, but are not limited to, rivers, creeks, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, roads, railroads, fences, and direction of flow, if appropriate; and  (i) The location of property lines for the property involved in the transfer, in the vicinity of the transfer. For transfer of municipal, quasi-municipal, and other similar rights, the property lines need not be shown, however, the service area boundaries shall be indicated. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.025 & 536.027 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540.570, 540.572 - 540.578 & 540.580 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 9-2004, f. & cert. ef. 11-16-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
