



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 260 CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT FOR OTHER THAN WELL CONSTRUCTORS 
 690-260-0090 
 Opportunity for Hearing 
 
 (1) Persons or agencies receiving a notice imposing a civil penalty may request a hearing within 10 days from the date of mailing the notice. Notice may be served personally or by mail. In the case of service by mail, the date of mailing shall serve as the notice date. The request for hearing shall be considered made on the date that the request is postmarked.  (2) The Commission delegates to the Director the authority to schedule and conduct a contested hearing if one is requested. The Director may issue a proposed order following the hearing. If no exceptions are filed, the proposed order becomes final. If exceptions are filed to the proposed order, the Commission shall issue the final decision.  (3) The Director may recommend that the Commission reduce or remit the amount of the penalty if evidence, or negotiations presented in preparation for the hearing, indicates that the amount of the penalty was inappropriate. The following factors may be considered when reducing or remitting a civil penalty:  (a) History of similar violations;  (b) Willingness to comply;  (c) impact on other water rights;  (d) Economic gain resulting from the violation;  (e) Financial ability of the violator to pay the penalty; and  (f) Incorrect identification of the responsible party. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
