



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Chiropractic Examiners 
 Chapter 811 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 CONSUMER PROTECTION 
 811-015-0080 
 License Suspension and Probation
 
 
 (1) Chiropractic physicians and certified chiropractic assistants who are placed on suspension may not provide chiropractic treatment or services to any patient and are not to be in the clinic during business hours. 

 (2) The suspended chiropractic physicians shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in any conduct or make any statement which is intended to mislead, or is likely to have the effect of misleading any patient, member of the public, or other person as to the nature of and reason for the suspension. It shall be prohibited to portray themselves to patients in any way as potentially practicing. Suspended chiropractic physicians may not perform intake functions or greet patients. Suspended chiropractic physicians and suspended certified chiropractic assistants should not be visible to patients as that could induce the belief they are practicing. 

 (3) Suspended chiropractic physicians shall prominently post in their clinic a suspension notice provided by the Board in a place conspicuous and readable to the public. The suspension notice shall remain posted during the entire period of actual suspension. The Board may waive this for good cause. 

 (4) Chiropractic physicians and certified chiropractic assistants are prohibited from misrepresenting the status of licensure to any patients. 

 (5) Chiropractic physicians will be prohibited from using any student interns during the period of suspension or probation. 

 (6) Suspended chiropractic physicians may not provide any therapies as a certified chiropractic assistant. They may not personally sell or provide supplements or other products to clinic patients or persons coming in to the clinic. They may not perform adjustments on family or friends while they are suspended. They may not take X-ray films or perform any diagnostic procedures. 

 (7) Suspended chiropractic physicians may not engage in marketing which leads clients, consumers, or patients to believe they are a practicing chiropractic physician at the time they are suspended. They may not place new advertising which indicates in any way the suspended chiropractic physician is practicing chiropractic during the suspension period. 

 (8) The list of prohibitions in this rule is not all inclusive and if the Board determines that a suspended chiropractic physician was practicing chiropractic during the term of suspension, it may result in further disciplinary action, pursuant to ORS 684.100. 

 (9) A limited exception includes providing expert testimony at hearing or deposition, information to legal counsel in regards to a patient’s case that is in legal process of resolution regarding care provided prior to the suspension. Suspended chiropractic physicians are not prohibited from performing such business functions such as billing and attending tasks not related to patient scheduling, care, treatment or evaluation; such action must be done outside of regular business hours. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.684 & 684.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 684.155(b) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCE 12-2019, amend filed 10/10/2019, effective 10/10/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCE 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 11-28-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
