



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL 
 603-052-0030 
 Plum Curculio Quarantine 
 
 A quarantine is established against the following pest, its host and possible carriers:  (1) Pest. Plum curculio, Conotrachelus nenuphar (Herbst) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), is a native weevil found throughout the eastern United States and Canada. It is a common and serious pest of all stone fruits and, to a lesser extent, of apple and pear. The larvae live within the fruit of their host plants.  (2) Area Under Quarantine:  (A) In the eastern United States and Canada, all states and provinces east of and including Manitoba, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas.  (B) In Utah, Box Elder County.  (3) Articles and Commodities Covered:  (a) Fresh fruit of all plants listed below:  (A) Apple (Malus spp.);  (B) Apricot (Prunus persica)  (C) Cherry, black (P. serotina);  (D) Cherry, Choke (P. virginiana);  (E) Cherry, pin (P. pensylvanica);  (F) Cherry, sand (P. pumila);  (G) Cherry, sour (P. cerasus);  (H) Cherry, sweet (P. avium);  (I) Crabapple (Malus spp.);  (J) Hawthorn (Crataegus spp.);  (K) Nectarine (Prunus persica nectarina);  (L) Peach (P. persica);  (M) Pear (Pyrus communis);  (N) Plum, American (wild) (Prunus alleghaniensis)  (O) Plum, beach (P. maritima);  (P) Plum, European (P. domestica);  (Q) Plum, Japanese (P. salicina);  (R) Prune (P. spp.)  (S) Quince (Cydonia oblonga).  (b) Soil or other growing medium within the drip zone of plants producing, or which have produced, fruit as listed in subsection (a) of this section.  (4) Restrictions:  (a) Certification Required. Articles and commodities covered which are produced in or shipped from the area under quarantine are prohibited entry into the state of Oregon unless each lot or shipment is accompanied by a certificate issued by and bearing the original or facsimile signature of the authorized agricultural official of the state from which the article or commodity is shipped evidencing compliance with subsections (c), (d), (f), or (g) of this section. No certificate is required for commodities meeting the requirements of subsections (b) or (e) of this section;  (b) Reshipments in Original Containers from Area Under Quarantine of Commodities Grown Outside Thereof. Commodities in original unopened containers, each bearing labels or other identifying marks evidencing origin outside the area under quarantine, may be reshipped to this state from any point within the area under quarantine;  (c) Repacked Commodities Admissible from Area Under Quarantine if Certified Grown Outside Thereof. Provided each lot or shipment is certified by an authorized agricultural official to have been grown outside the area under quarantine and that continued identity has been maintained while within the area under quarantine, the commodities may be repacked and shipped by common carrier from any point within the area under quarantine to this state. The certificate shall set forth the state in which commodities were grown, point of repacking and reshipment, amount and kind of commodities comprising the lot or shipment, and the names and addresses of the shipper and consignee;  (d) Apple Exposed to Controlled Atmosphere (CA) Storage Admissible Under Certificate. Apples which are exposed to controlled atmosphere (CA) storage for a continuous period of ninety (90) days, during which period the temperature within the storage room is maintained at thirty-eight degrees (38°) F (3.3° C) or less, may be admitted into Oregon provided said storage room or building is approved by the proper authorities in the state of origin as a controlled atmosphere facility and further provided each lot or shipment of such apples to Oregon is accompanied by a certificate, as stated in subsection (a) of this section, evidencing compliance with the minimum requirements of this section;  (e) Solid Frozen Fruits Exempt. No restrictions are placed by this regulation on the entry into this state of fruits which upon arrival are frozen solid and which are under refrigeration to assure their solid frozen state;  (f) Shipments from Cold Storage at 32° F (0° C). Commodities covered which are held in cold storage for a continuous period of forty (40) days or more, during which period the temperature within the storage room is maintained at thirty-two degrees Fahrenheit (32° F) (0° C) or less, may be admitted into Oregon provided each lot or shipment is accompanied by a certificate, as stated in subsection (a) of this section, evidencing compliance with the minimum requirements of this paragraph;  (g) Soil or Growing Media When Certified. Soil or growing media specified in subsection (3)(b) of this rule is admissible when certified as treated at origin in a manner approved by the Director 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 570.305 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 561.190, 561.510 - 561.600, 570.305, 570.405 & 570.410 - 570.415 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 11-2011, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 19-1994, f. & cert. ef. 11-15-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
