



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0520 
 Required School District Guidelines for Digital Instruction 
 
 Public Providers of online learning using OVSD resources must adopt guidelines in the following areas.  (1) Student/Teacher Ratio. Online learning providers are required to have guidelines in place for reasonable student to instructor ratios that allow for regular, individualized interaction with instructors.  (2) Student Teacher Interaction. Online learning providers are required to have guidelines in place for reasonable student to instructor communication that allow for, individualized interaction with instructors as needed. Communication includes, but is not limited to, electronic mail, online discussion groups, telephone interaction and face to face discussions between teacher and student.  (3) Timeframe for Teacher Response to Student Questions. Online learning providers are required to have guidelines in place for the time and process that teachers will provide prompt response to student inquiries and requests for assistance.  (4) Student Standards. Online learning providers are required to have guidelines in place for student conduct and acceptable use of public school resources in the delivery of online instruction. The administrative implementation is governed by individual school district guidelines.  (5) Type of Courses. Courses offered are governed by individual school district guidelines, including, but not limited to, courses meeting requirements for high school diploma, electives as well as supplementary instruction. An example of supplementary instruction could be Advanced Placement preparation instruction.  (6) Amount of Credit Allowed. The amount of online instruction, and the corresponding credit, provided to a student is under the jurisdiction of the resident school district. Districts must accept transfer grades by accredited institutions.  (7) Student Eligibility for Courses. When applying towards credit the student’s resident school district sets the eligibility requirements for district purchased online teaching services. Individual private purchase of courses by an Oregon resident is at the discretion of the parent or guardian and subject to resident school district guidelines for credit towards graduation. Use of Digital Courses and Content are subject to School District guidelines.  (8) Teacher Professional Development. Online Learning Providers are required to have policies for Teacher professional development. Teachers need to have appropriate training for the delivery of online instruction. Providers receiving public support must maintain Oregon teaching licensure for all teachers consistent with TSPC professional development requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 319.840 & 326.051 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 319.840 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 14-2006, f. 10-23-06, cert. ef. 10-24-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
