



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Public Employees Retirement System 
 Chapter 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 ADMINISTRATION 
 459-005-0215 
 Transmittal of Remittances or Payments 
 
 (1) For the purpose of this rule:  (a) A "remittance" means the transfer of funds from a participating employer to the Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF) which includes:  (A) The contributions of both employer and employee members required in ORS 238.200 to 238.230 used to fund PERS benefits;  (B) A PERS invoice for employee and/or employer contributions and associated late penalties;  (C) Any lump sum transfer of funds in satisfaction of an employer liability; and  (D) Other contributions to the PERF.  (b) An "employer payment" means the transfer of funds from an employer to PERS for other than the PERF which includes, but is not limited to:  (A) Contributions to the Deferred Compensation Program;  (B) Administrative fees; or  (C) Other employer liabilities.  (c) A "member payment" means the transfer of funds from a member to the PERF for the purchase of service credit in PERS, restoration of a member's account or the satisfaction of an invoice for over payment of PERS benefits, other than administrative fees associated with a purchase or invoice.  (d) A "remittance advice" means an itemized statement on PERS-approved form(s) that describes a remittance.  (e) An "employer payment advice" means an itemized statement approved by PERS that describes an employer payment.  (f) A "member-payment advice" means the copy of a PERS-prepared itemized statement of the member cost(s) for a purchase of service credit, the restoration of a member's account or an invoice for over payment of PERS benefits.  (g) An "advice document" means the document referred to in subsections (d), (e) or (f) of this section.  (2) The transmission of a remittance, an employer payment or a member payment shall be accompanied by a remittance advice or a payment advice, respectively.  (3) The transmission of a remittance, an employer payment or a member payment to PERS shall be as follows:  (a) The United State Postal Service (USPS);  (b) A private express carrier as defined in ORS 293.660(2);  (c) Other electronic funds transfer methods approved in advance by PERS.  (4) A remittance or an employer payment shall be returned to the employer and shall be subject to late penalties, when applicable, if transmitted, without the corresponding advice document.  (5) A remittance or an employer payment shall be returned to the employer and shall be subject to late penalties, when applicable, if transmitted, with or without the corresponding advice document, to any PERS office or other address not currently designated by PERS.  (6) An advice document that is not accompanied by the transfer of funds, such as a corrected or supplemental remittance advice, may be transmitted as provided in section (3) of this rule or by use of:  (a) Telephone facsimile communication (fax);  (b) Electronic mail (e-mail) through the Internet; or  (c) By use of the PERS web site on the Internet. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 238.650 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 238.005 - 238.750 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 21-2005, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 6-1999, f. & cert. ef. 11-22-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
