



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0330 
 Intrastate Wagering Approval Orders 
 
 (1) Any race meet licensee must receive authorization from the Oregon Racing Commission before conducting off-track wagering. No unauthorized person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall conduct or attempt to conduct wagering on the results of races simulcast from a race meet held in Oregon. Applications for authorization shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the commission and shall contain such information or other material or evidence as the commission may require.  (2) Within forty-five days of receipt of the plan of operation provided in OAR 462-200-0340, the commission shall issue an order approving the plan, approving it with modifications, or denying approval; if denied, the commission shall state its reasons for denial. Within such period the commission may request additional information or suggest amendments. If the commission fails to approve the plan, the applicant may request a public hearing to be held within thirty days. The commission shall issue its final determination within ten days of such hearing. The applicant may submit an amended application no sooner than thirty days after a denial.  (3) No person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall be allowed to operate an off-track wagering facility except according to the provisions of an “approved plan of operation.” No change in such plan of operation may occur until an amendment proposing a change to the plan is approved by the commission. A plan of operation may be amended from time to time at the request of either the operator or the commission. The operator shall have the right to be heard concerning any amendment to the plan and the commission shall dispose of such proposed amendments as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than thirty days following submission by the operator or, in the case of amendments proposed by the commission, objection by the operator. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.700 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.700 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
