



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 HEALTH PROMOTION AND CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION 
 333-010-0225 
 Standards of Care for WISEWOMAN Program Screening and Services 
 
 An enrolling provider shall:  (1) Inform each client, verbally and with supplementary written materials in a language the client understands, without bias or coercion, that the client’s decision to participate in the WW Program screening and services is voluntary;  (2) Inform clients of the scope of services available through the program;  (3) Obtain informed consent from each client receiving WW screening and services;  (4) Provide services within the scope by the WW Program without cost to eligible clients;  (5) Offer clients with abnormal or ALERT values additional medical support even though treatment is not covered by the WW Program. The WW Program Manual, October 2014, incorporated by reference, includes a complete list of abnormal and ALERT values and medical support services approved for reimbursement.  (6) Provide information to clients in need of additional medical services beyond the scope of the WW Program provider network with information about available local resources;  (7) Provide all services to eligible clients without regard to marital status, race, parity, disability, or sexual orientation;  (8) Take a health history for all clients, including health risk facts and personal and family medical history as it pertains to heart disease, stroke and diabetes screening;  (9) Provide follow-up recommendations for each client;  (10) Provide care coordination to ensure that appropriate follow-up screening, diagnostic testing and care is provided, including:  (a) An explanation of the results of the screening and laboratory tests; and  (b) The opportunity for questions concerning procedures, methods and results.  (11) Submit enrollment and eligibility information immediately or within five calendar days from the date of enrollment to the Center;  (12) Submit all client data to the WW Program, including required information about client history and screening results;  (13) Provide services to each client in a manner that respects the privacy and dignity of the individual;  (14) Inform clients that services and medical records will be kept confidential and that records cannot be released without written client consent, except as required by law, or otherwise permitted by HIPAA;  (15) Provide all services, support and other assistance in a manner that is responsive to the beliefs, interpersonal styles, attitudes, language, and behaviors of the clients receiving services, and in a manner that has the greatest likelihood of ensuring a client’s maximum participation in the program;  (16) Notify clients of the availability of interpretation services in accordance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and make interpretation services available to all clients needing or requesting such assistance at no cost to the client;  (a) A provider shall ensure that all persons providing interpretation services adhere to confidentiality guidelines;  (b) A provider must assure the competency of language assistance provided to clients by interpreters and bilingual staff. Family and friends should not be used to provide interpretation services, unless requested by the client;  (17) Make available easily understood client related materials and post signage in the languages of groups commonly encountered in the service area;  (18) Ensure that all print, electronic, and audiovisual materials are appropriate according to the client’s language and literacy level, including accommodating a client’s request for alternate formats; and  (19) Use only CLIA certified laboratories for all tests, whether done at the clinic site or by an outside clinic. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 413.042 & 431.250 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 27-2014, f. & cert. ef. 10-10-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2014(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 4-18-14 thru 10-15-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 1-2009, f. & cert. ef. 2-13-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
