



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-3290 
 Cascade Mountain Lakes 
 
 Policies and objectives for fish management in Cascade Mountain lakes of the upper Deschutes River Subbasin.  (1) Policies for fish management in Cascade Mountain lakes:  (a) Whitefish in Winopee Lake shall be managed for natural production consistent with the Featured Species Management Alternative for trout;  (b) Cascade Mountain lakes of the upper Deschutes Subbasin shall be managed for natural and hatchery production consistent with the Basic Yield management alternative for trout;  (c) Hatchery rainbow, brook, and cutthroat trout shall be stocked into the lakes listed in subsections (A) and (B) of this section:  (A) Upper Deschutes Fish District: Barbie, Big Finger, Black Crater, Blow, Blowdown, Bobby, Brahma, Cathy, Charlton, Clark, Comma, Copper, Deer, Dennis, Doris, Found, Gleneden, Golden, Goldeneye, S. Green, E. Hanks, M. Hanks, W. Hanks, Harlequinn, Hidden, Hunter, Irish, Jay, Johnny, Josephine, Junco, Kershaw, Kinnikinnic, Lady, Lemish, Lily, Lindick, Lodgepole, Long, Lucky, N. Mathieu, Merle, Phantom, Puppy, Pygmy, Raft, Red Slide, Rim, Rock Rim, Simon, L. Snowshoe, M. Snowshoe, U. Snowshoe, Strider, Swede, Taylor, N. Teddy, S. Teddy, Timmy, Todd, Tranquil, Winopee, Yapoah;  (B) Klamath Fish District: Bell, Bonnies, Darlene, Effie, Elf, Farrell, Fawn, Gray Jay, Hidden, Horsepasture, Lil’s, Maiden, Meek, Oldenburg, Rosary, Lower, Rosary, Middle, Rosary, Upper, Snell, Sowbug, Stag, Suzanne, Windigo, W. Windy, E. Windy, N. Windy, S. Windy, W. Yoran.  (d) No fish shall be introduced into Cascade Mountain lakes not currently stocked;  (e) Hatchery trout shall not be stocked into high lakes which drain into waters with wild fish populations if there is a risk to the genetic integrity of these wild populations.  (2) Objectives for fish management in Cascade Mountain lakes:  (a) Maintain abundance, distribution, and genetic integrity of whitefish in Winopee Lake;  (b) Provide diverse angling opportunities for selected trout species in Cascade Mountain lakes of the Upper Deschutes River basin;  (c) Maintain and enhance fish habitat in the Cascade Mountain lakes;  (d) Minimize the impacts of hatchery trout on the production and genetic integrity of wild trout in the Deschutes River basin;  (e) Manage Cascade Mountain lakes fisheries consistent with wilderness management plans to be jointly developed with Deschutes National Forest personnel. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 59-1996, f. 9-27-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
