



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0635 
 Show Pick N with Unique Ticket Jackpot 
 
 (1) The Show Pick N with Unique Ticket Jackpot (hereinafter “Jackpot”) is a multi race mutuel wager consisting of a minimum of five (5) Jackpot races. Contests selected may include races from multiple race tracks. The official order of finish as posted shall determine the race outcome for purposes of this wager. The licensee offering the wager must obtain written approval from the Commission concerning the scheduling of Jackpot contests. Any changes to the approved Jackpot format require prior approval from the Commission.  (2) Wagers placed on the Jackpot shall be placed into two separate pools.  (a) Major Pool. The major pool shall receive 80% of the total amount wagered, subject to applicable takeout. The major pool shall be distributed to those selecting the first, second or third place finisher in all of the Jackpot contests (Show Pick All). There is no carryover for the major pool. If there are no tickets correctly selecting a first, second or third place finisher in all of the Jackpot contests, the pool shall be distributed to those who selected a first, second or third place finisher in the greatest number of contests.  (b) Minor Pool. The minor pool shall receive 20% of the total amount wagered, subject to allowable takeout. The minor pool shall be distributed to the holder of a “Unique” ticket that selected the first place finisher in all of the Jackpot races. A “Unique” winning ticket shall exist when the total amount wagered on a winning combination selecting the first place finisher in each of the selected Jackpot races is equal to the minimum allowable wager. (e.g. 20 cents if the base wager is $1.00) If there is not a “Unique” ticket for the minor pool, the net amount in the pool shall be added (carried over) to the minor pool offered at the next scheduled Jackpot event. A single ticket holder possessing multiple winning tickets, even if they are the only winning tickets, will not be deemed to have a “Unique” ticket and the Jackpot shall carryover as prescribed in these rules.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first in any of the Jackpot contests then such dead heated betting interest will be considered winners for Jackpot purposes. Any tickets including dead heat winners will be considered separate tickets for the purposes of identifying unique tickets for the Jackpot pool.  (4) If any betting interest is scratched, excused or determined to be a non-starter after the wager has been placed in the Jackpot, the actual favorite, as evidenced by the total amounts wagered in the Win pool at the host race meet licensee for the contest at the close of wagering for that contest, shall be substituted for the scratched betting interest for all purposes. In the event that the Win pool total for two or more favorites is identical, the substitute selection shall be the favorite betting interest with the lowest program number.  (5) If there is a scratch after the first race in the Jackpot, the betting favorite as determined by the host track’s win pool will be substituted for the scratched betting interest. Any tickets including both the scratched betting interest and the betting favorite will be considered two separate, non-unique tickets for the purposes of identifying unique tickets for the Jackpot pool.  (6) The Jackpot pool shall be cancelled and all Jackpot wagers for the individual event shall be refunded if:  (a) If one or more races included in the Jackpot sequence is cancelled or declared "no contest”.  (b) If any of the races in the Jackpot scheduled after the first leg end up being priced and made official prior to the first leg in the Jackpot being priced and made official.  (7) Mandatory payout days: After the Jackpot carryover (Minor Pool) pool reaches $500,000; the next Jackpot event will require a mandatory payout.  (8) When the Jackpot converts to a mandatory payout, the wager will convert to a traditional Pick 5 wager with no unique ticket provision nor any Show Pick All payout. The Jackpot pool will be distributed to the tickets selecting the winner in the greatest number of contests. In the rare occurrence that no tickets contained a winning betting interest, the wagering for that event will be refunded and the mandatory payout will carry over to the next Jackpot event.  (9) If any of the races in the Jackpot has a surface change (For example: a race switches from Turf to Dirt), the selections and results for that race remain regardless of whether the surface change occurs before or after the first race in the Jackpot. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 2-13-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 1-2013(Temp), f. 8-20-13, cert. ef. 8-21-13 thru 2-17-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
