



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION (CTE) TEACHING LICENSES 
 584-230-0060 
 CTE Instructor Appraisal Committees 
 
 (1) An Instructor Appraisal Committee (IAC) is a committee of industry and education experts that evaluate applications for CTE licensure and endorsements based on work experience and preparation in a CTE endorsement area. The IAC is appointed by the Local Education Agency.  (2) The Instructor Appraisal Committee must have a minimum of five (5) members, as provided:  (a) The IAC must include a school administrator or a CTE director from the sponsoring district. The administrator representative is an official member of the IAC.  (b) If the applicant is a licensed teacher, at least two IAC members must be from business and industry pursuant to subsection (3).  (c) If the applicant is from business and industry and is not a licensed teacher, at least two IAC members must be from education pursuant to subsection (4).  (d) The IAC facilitator may not be included in the five member minimum requirement;  (e) An IAC member may represent more than one required membership category.  (3) Business or industry members: The business or industry representative is an official member of the IAC. To be appointed as a member to the IAC, the business or industry representatives must:  (a) Possess current and substantial knowledge of the technical and environmental requirements, and standards of behavior required of the business or industry program.  (a) Be either employers or employees of the business or industry;  (c) At least one business or industry representatives must be currently engaged in an occupation related to the career and technical education program endorsement area.  (4) Educator members: The educator representative(s) is an official member of the IAC. To be appointed as a member to the IAC, the educator must:  (a) Possess current and substantial knowledge of pedagogy, instructional practices, assessment practices, classroom management, and education policy; and  (b) Be employed with one of the following:  (A) A public or private secondary school. The secondary school educator must hold an active and valid Oregon teaching license; or  (B) A post-secondary institutions. Post-secondary representatives must be from the applicant’s endorsement program area.  (5) Ex-Officio: The sponsoring district or Regional Coordinator may appoint non-voting ex-officio members to the IAC.  (6) IAC Facilitator: The Regional Coordinator or the appropriate ODE program specialist will serve as the IAC facilitator to operate the IAC during each candidate appraisal process. Failure to use an approved IAC facilitator may result in an invalid recommendation and incomplete licensure application process.  (7) IAC Chair: The IAC must appoint a chair from the official membership of the committee.  (a) The chair is responsible to provide the IAC’s rationale for the recommendation and must sign any submitted recommendation for a waiver of academic or work experience to the ODE, prior to application for licensure at TSPC.  (b) The chair may not be an ex-officio member or an appointed facilitator.  (8) IAC members may be comprised of existing program advisory committees if the IAC membership meets the minimum membership requirements pursuant to subsection (2).  (9) The CTE Regional Coordinator and the appropriate ODE program specialist must officially verify the IAC member roster as well as evaluations and recommendations of the IAC prior to application for licensure at TSPC.  (10) The applicant’s proposed CTE professional development plan must be consistent with the Preliminary CTE Teaching License requirements as provided in OAR 584-230-0020 if the candidate does not hold an existing CTE, Preliminary, Professional, Legacy or Teacher Leader teaching license. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430, 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 4-2017, f. 6-27-17, cert. ef. 7-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
