



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-3280 
 Century Drive Lakes Isolated from the Deschutes River (Sparks, Devils, Elk, Hosmer, North Twin, and South Twin Lakes) 
 
 Policies and objectives for fish management in Century Drive Lakes Isolated from the Deschutes River (Sparks, Devils, Elk, Hosmer, North Twin, and South Twin Lakes) of the upper Deschutes River Subbasin.  (1) Policies for fish management in Century Drive Lakes Isolated from the Deschutes River (Sparks, Devils, Elk, Hosmer, North Twin, and South Twin Lakes):  (a) Hosmer Lake shall be managed for hatchery produced Atlantic salmon consistent with the Featured Species Management Alternative for trout. Discontinue the stocking of brook trout. (Hostmer) Lake will switch to hatchery produced rainbow trout consistent with the Featured Species Management Alternative if the Atlantic salmon egg take ever fails;  (b) Sparks Lake, Devils Lake, Elk Lake, and North and South Twin Lakes shall be managed as follows:  (A) Sparks Lake shall be managed for naturally produced brook trout consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout. Discontinue stocking brook trout. Introduced cutthroat trout shall be managed consistent with the Featured Species Alternative for trout;  (B) Devils Lake shall be managed for naturally produced brook trout and hatchery produced legal size rainbow trout consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout;  (C) Elk Lake shall be managed for naturally produced kokanee and for hatchery produced brook trout consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout;  (D) North and South Twin Lakes shall be managed for hatchery produced rainbow consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout.  (2) Objectives for fish management in Century Drive Lakes Isolated from the Deschutes River (Sparks, Devils, Elk, Hosmer, North Twin, and South Twin Lakes):  (a) Provide diverse angling opportunities for selected trout species in Century Drive Lakes of the Upper Deschutes River basin;  (b) Protect and enhance trout habitat in the Century Drive Lakes;  (c) Maintain or improve access to the Century Drive Lakes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 59-1996, f. 9-27-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
