



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FISH MANAGEMENT AND HATCHERY OPERATION 
 635-007-0975 
 Import, Export or Transfer of Pathogens and Diseases 
 
 (1) The Department may allow a transfer or release fish if the disease agent has not occurred within the past three years of fish rearing, fish are appropriately treated to prevent disease transmission before transfer, or if the disease agent also occurs in the receiving waters.  (2) No person may import, export, or transfer susceptible fish from a site or area where a Category I disease agent has been found until the Department has determined that the site or area is acceptable and has issued a valid Fish Transport Permit pursuant to OAR 635-007-0600. One of the Department’s fish health specialists may make the required determination and provide a memorandum to Fish Division.  (3) The Department may authorize a person to import, export, or transfer fish that have or are from a station or area with a recent or continuing history of Category II disease agent by issuing a Fish Transport Permit. The Department must restrict the import, transfer, or release of fish from facilities in which Category II disease agents have been detected within the life cycle of a fish species or that have not been eliminated by effective treatment to only those areas where that disease is already endemic. The Department must restrict the transfer or release of fish that may expand the geographic distribution of disease agents in this category.  (4) The Department must restrict the import, transfer, and release of fish from facilities in which Category III disease agents have been detected within the life cycle of a fish species or that have not been eliminated by effective treatment to only those areas where that disease is already endemic.  (5) Fish from facilities with a history of, but no current occurrence of Category I through III diseases will be treated as if they were in Category IV. The Department may issue a Fish Transport Permit for transfer or release of fish with the presence of disease agents in this category if the disease agent has not occurred within the past three years of fish rearing, the fish are appropriately treated for disease before transfer, or the disease agent occurs in the receiving waters. The Department may deny a Fish Transport Permit to transfer or import fish from facilities where Category III and IV diseases agents have been identified until acceptable treatment or improved history record (three years without disease detection) requirements have been met through appropriate fish health examinations.  Stat: Auth.: ORS 496, 497, 498, 506 & 508 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496, 497, 498, 506 & 508 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 96-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-19-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
