



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Workers' Compensation Division - Chapter 436 
 
 
 
 
 Division 162 ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE; PROOF OF COVERAGE 
 436-162-0005 
 General Definitions 
 
 For the purpose of these rules:  (1) "Director" means the director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services or the director's designee for the matter.  (2) "Division" means the Workers' Compensation Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services.  (3) "Electronic data interchange" or "EDI" means a computer to computer exchange of information in a standardized electronic format.  (4) "Electronic record" means information created, generated, sent, communicated, received, or stored by electronic means.  (5) “Establishing document” means a transaction that reports coverage for one or more entities. Establishing document types are coverage notice/binders, new policies, rewrite/reissue transactions, renewals, reinstatements, add jurisdiction endorsements, or add employer/location endorsements.  (6) “Exclude (X)” means the data element must not be sent or cannot be sent.  (7) “Expected (E)” means the data element is expected on the transaction, but the transaction will be accepted with errors should it fail any edit.  (8) “Fatal Technical (F)” means the data element must be sent.  (9) “Fatal Technical/Conditional (FT)” means the data element must be sent when certain conditions are present.  (10) "FEIN" means the federal employer identification number or other federal reporting number used by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to identify a business entity and by the insurer, insured, or employer for federal tax reporting purposes.  (11) "Header record" means the record that precedes each transmission for the purpose of identifying a sender, the date and time of the transmission, and the transaction set within the transmission.  (12) "IAIABC" means the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards and Commissions, a professional trade association consisting of state workers' compensation regulators and insurance and corporate agency representatives (www.iaiabc.org).  (13) “If Applicable/Available with Item Accept if Invalid (IA)” means the data may or may not be populated. If present, may be edited for valid value or format. The division may or may not return an error on validity edits.  (14) "Industry code" means the code that indicates the nature of the employer's business as published in the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) manual, available in print and on CD-ROM from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) http://www.ntis.gov/products/naics.aspx. NAICS codes may also be viewed at the U.S. Census Bureau webpage (http://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/).  (15) "Information" means data, text, images, sounds, codes, computer programs, software, databases, or the like.  (16) "Insurer" means the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation or an insurer authorized under ORS chapter 731 to transact workers' compensation insurance in Oregon.  (17) "Mandatory (M)" means the data element must be sent. If the data element is omitted or submitted in a format the division is unable to process, the transaction will be rejected.  (18) “Mandatory/Conditional (MC)” means the data element must be sent when certain conditions are present.  (19) “Not Applicable (NA)” means the data element is not required to be sent, but it may be sent. If it is sent, edits may be applied, but unsuccessful edits will not cause the transaction to be rejected.  (20) "Proof of coverage" means an electronic record or set of records identifying an insurer as providing workers' compensation coverage for a specific employer.  (21) "Record" means electronic record.  (22) “Restricted (R)” means the data element value will not be accepted if a stated condition exists.  (23) "Sender" means the vendor or insurer authorized to send EDI transactions to the division.  (24) "Trailer record" means the record that designates the end of a transmission and provides a count of transactions contained within the transmission, not including the header and trailer records.  (25) "Transaction" means a set of EDI records, defined according to standards in OAR 436-162-0004(1).  (26) “Transaction reason code” means the two-digit code identifying the type of transaction and why it was sent (e.g., 54, adding an employer location).  (27) “Transaction set purpose code” means the code identifying whether the transaction is an original, change, or replacement transaction (e.g., 00, original).  (28) “Transaction set type code” means the code identifying the purpose of individual records within the transaction (e.g., 42, canceled by insured).  (29) "Transmission" means a defined set of transactions, including both header and trailer records sent to the division or sender by EDI.  (30) “Triplicate code” means the series of three two-digit codes that define the specific purpose of individual records in a proof of coverage transmission in this order: transaction set purpose code, transaction set type code, and transaction reason code.  (31) "Vendor" means an agent identified by an insurer to submit transmissions to the division on behalf of the insurer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.264 & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.419, 656.423 & 656.427 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 12-2014, f. 11-13-14, cert. ef. 4-1-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 7-2010, f. 10-1-10, cert. ef. 1-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
