



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 SCHOOL FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICES 
 581-051-0400 
 Breakfast Programs 
 
 This rule outlines the criteria for a waiver from the breakfast program:  (1) As used in this rule:  (a) "Site" means the school where the children participating in the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) lunch program are enrolled;  (b) "Lunch" means USDA reimbursable lunch;  (c) "Breakfast" means USDA reimbursable breakfast.  (2) A school district may apply to the State Board of Education for a waiver from providing a breakfast program for all or for individual sites if it is financially unable to implement or maintain a breakfast program.  (3) A request to the State Board of Education for a waiver shall be made by the local school superintendent or designee and contain at least the following:  (a) A projected revenue and expense statement for one year for the breakfast program including descriptions of each line item;  (b) Copy of one month's menus;  (c) Copy of the staffing pattern for the breakfast program;  (d) Projected breakfast participation levels and the percentage of those qualifying for free, reduced-price and paid meals;  (e) Number of students currently approved for free and reduced price for the National School Lunch Program;  (f) Anticipated breakfast charges for paid and reduced-price meals;  (g) A statement explaining why the school district is financially unable to provide the breakfast program.  (h) Copy of class schedule for each site included in the waiver request.  (4) For each request received, the State Superintendent shall make a recommendation to the State Board of Education based on the data submitted by the requesting district.  (5) Waiver requests are evaluated by Oregon Department of Education Child Nutrition staff to assist the State Superintendent in making a recommendation. Evaluation may include an on-site visit.  (6) The State Board of Education, upon review of the Superintendent's recommendations and data submitted by requesting districts, may grant a waiver for a period not to exceed two years, after which the district may submit a request for an extension of the waiver for an additional year. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 1991 & Ch. 500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 327.535 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 18-2004, f. & cert. ef. 8-10-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 13-1992, f. & cert. ef. 4-7-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
