



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Treasury 
 Chapter 170 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 ADMINISTRATION AND PROCUREMENT 
 170-002-0155 
 Electronic Procurements 
 
 (1) The Treasurer may conduct all phases of a Procurement, including providing public notice and receiving Offers, by electronic methods as provided in a Solicitation Document, or any other written instructions on how to participate. 

 (2) Any Offeror electronically submitting an Offer to the Treasurer agrees to conduct business with the Treasurer electronically. All communication about the Procurement will be done through the Treasurer’s electronic procurement system. 

 (3) The Treasurer will use and accept electronic signatures. The use of electronic signatures must be consistent with applicable statutes and rules. If an Offeror or Contractor resides in a country, territory, or jurisdiction that does not recognize electronic signatures, the Treasurer will not use or accept electronic signatures. 

 (4) Offerors must register with the Treasurer’s electronic procurement system before submitting electronic Offers. The Offeror must agree to the terms, conditions, or other requirements of the Solicitation Document or other requirements governing the Procurement process. 

 (5) The Offeror must submit an electronic Offer on or before the Closing date and time identified in the Solicitation Document. The date and time stamp assigned by the Treasurer’s electronic procurement system determines whether an electronic Offer is submitted timely. The opening and closing time of all Procurements is Pacific Time, whether Pacific Daylight Time, or Pacific Standard Time. 

 (6) If the Treasurer’s electronic procurement system does not allow one or more Offerors to submit electronic Offers, the Treasurer may cancel or extend the Procurement. The Treasurer will provide notice to potential Offerors of the cancellation or extension through the electronic procurement system once the system becomes available. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279A.065 & ORS chapter 84 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OST 1-2018, adopt filed 02/27/2018, effective 03/02/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
