



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-0925 
 Cable Yarding Work Practices 
 
 (1) Personnel must not ride hooks, lines, rigging, logs suspended in the air or being moved.  (2) Personnel must not hold onto haywire, running lines, drop lines or chokers as an assist when walking uphill.  (3) Personnel must not work in the bight of lines under tension.  EXCEPTIONS: Personnel may be in the bight of lines when:  (a) Minor positioning of the rigging is needed to set chokers.  (b) They are protected by standing timber, terrain, or other objects of sufficient size to assure their safety.  NOTE: "Lines under tension" means when:  (a) Logs are being moved or suspended.  (b) The rigging or carriage is moving to the landing or returning to the brush.  (c) Lines are tight-lined to clear up the road.  (d) Any movement or tightening of the line(s) other than that needed for minor positioning of the rigging or carriage to set chokers.  (4) Personnel must be in the clear of all lines, rigging and chokers until movement has stopped. Swinging chokers, hooks and rigging must be lowered to the ground.  (5) Personnel must be in the clear of trees, logs, root wads, chunks, rolling material, all lines and rigging before any lines are moved.  (6) Personnel must not stand next to skyline or running line anchor straps under tension.  (7) A minimum of one choker setter in each crew must be a qualified choker setter.  (8) Only one employee in any crew can give signals or voice communication at the point where chokers are being set.  NOTE: Any person is authorized to give a stop signal when an employee is in danger or any other emergency condition is apparent.  (9) At least two members of the rigging crew must carry transmitters for each signal and control system being operated where chokers are being set.  (10) When only one person is setting chokers on any cable yarding system, they must:  (a) Carry transmitters for each signal and control system being operated where chokers are being set.  (b) Be in clear view of the yarder operator or another person with transmitters for each signal and control system being operated where chokers are being set. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
