



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 113 RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRELINE SERVICE OPERATIONS AND SUB-SURFACE TRACER STUDIES 
 333-113-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in this division, the following definitions apply:  (1) "Energy compensation source (ECS)" means a small sealed source, with an activity not exceeding 3.7 MBq (100 microcuries), used within a well logging tool, or other tool components, to provide a reference standard to maintain the tool's calibration when in use.  (2) "Field Station" means a facility where radioactive sources may be stored or used and from which equipment is dispatched to temporary jobsites.  (3) "Fresh water aquifer," for the purpose of this part, means a geologic formation that is capable of yielding fresh water to a well or spring.  (4) "Injection Tool" means a device used for controlled subsurface injection of radioactive tracer material.  (5) "Irretrievable well logging source" means any sealed source containing licensed material that is pulled off or not connected to the wireline that suspends the source in the well and for which all reasonable effort at recovery has been expended.  (6) "Licensed material" means byproduct, source, or special nuclear material received, processed, used, or transferred under a license issued by the Authority under the rules in this chapter.  (7) "Logging assistant" means any individual who, under the personal supervision of a logging supervisor, handles sealed sources or tracers that are not in logging tools or shipping containers or who performs surveys required by 333-113-0401.  (8) "Logging Supervisor" means the individual who uses licensed material or provides personal supervision of the use of licensed sources of radiation at the well site and who is responsible to the licensee for assuring compliance with the requirements of Authority rules and the conditions of the license.  (9) "Logging Tool" means a device used subsurface to perform well-logging.  (10) "Mineral Logging" means any logging performed for the purpose of mineral exploration other than oil or gas.  (11) "Personal Supervision" means guidance and instruction by a logging supervisor who is physically present at the jobsite and watching the performance of the operation in such proximity that contact can be maintained and immediate assistance given as required.  (12) "Radioactive Marker" means radioactive material placed subsurface or on a structure intended for subsurface use for the purpose of depth determination or direction orientation. For purposes of these rules, this term includes radioactive collar markers and radioactive iron nails.  (13) "Safety review" means a periodic review provided by the licensee for its employees on radiation safety aspects of well logging. The review may include, as appropriate, the results of internal inspections, new procedures or equipment, accidents or errors that have been observed, and opportunities for employees to ask safety questions.  (14) "Sealed source" means any licensed material that is encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of the licensed material  (15) "Source Holder" means a housing or assembly into which a radioactive source is placed for the purpose of facilitating the handling and use of the source in well-logging operations.  (16) "Subsurface Tracer Study" means the release of unsealed license material or a substance tagged with licensed radioactive material for the purpose of tracing the movement or position of the tagged substance in the well-bore or adjacent formation.  (17) "Surface casing for protecting fresh water aquifers" means a pipe or tube used as a lining in a well to isolate fresh water aquifers from the well.  (18) "Temporary Jobsite" means a location where radioactive materials are present for the purpose of performing well logging operations or subsurface tracer studies.  (19) "Tritium neutron generator target source" means a tritium source used within a neutron generator tube to produce neutrons for use in well logging applications.  (20) "Uranium Sinker Bar" means a weight containing depleted uranium used to pull a logging tool down toward the bottom of a well.  (21) "Well" means a drilled hole in which well logging operations and subsurface tracer studies are performed. As used in this division, "well" includes drilled holes for the purpose of oil, gas, mineral, groundwater or geological exploration.  (22) "Well-Logging" means all operations involving the lowering and raising of measuring devices or tools which may contain sources of radiation into well-bores or cavities for the purpose of obtaining information about the well or adjacent formations that are used in oil, gas, mineral, groundwater or geological exploration.  (23) "Wireline" means a cable containing one or more electrical conductors which is used to lower and raise logging tools in the well-bore. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.635 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2007, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 1-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 4-1985, f. & ef. 3-20-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
