



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 ADULT FOSTER HOMES 
 309-040-0393 
 Individually-Based Limitations
 
 
 (1) When the provider cannot meet the HCBS qualities described below due to a threat to the health and safety of a resident or others, the provider may seek to apply an individually based limitation through the process described in this rule. A provider must not otherwise limit HCBS qualities : 

 (a) The freedom and support to access food at any time; 

 (b) Have visitors of the resident’s choosing at any time; 

 (c) Have a unit entrance door that is lockable by the resident with only appropriate program staff having access; 

 (d) Choose a roommate when sharing a unit; 

 (e) Furnish and decorate the resident’s unit as agreed to in the Residency Agreement; 

 (f) The freedom and support to control the resident’s schedule and activities; and 

 (g) Privacy in the resident’s unit. 

 (2) The provider must demonstrate and document the individually-based limitation meets  the elements described below  in the person-centered service plan and the Division-approved consent form. The provider must submit and sign the consent form with  the following: 

 (a) The specific and individualized assessed need justifying the individually-based limitation; 

 (b) The positive interventions and supports used prior to consideration or imposition of any individually-based limitation; 

 (c) Documentation  the provider or other entities have considered or evaluated the effectiveness of  other less intrusive methods; ; 

 (d) A clear description of the limitation that is directly proportionate to the specific assessed need; 

 (e) Regular collection and review of data to measure the ongoing effectiveness of the individually-based limitation; 

 (f) Established time limits for periodic reviews of the individually-based limitation to determine if the limitation should be terminated or remains necessary. The limitation must be reviewed at least annually; 

 (g) The informed consent of the resident or the resident’s legal representative, including any discrepancy between the wishes of the resident and the consent of the legal representative, and that the resident has been notified they may request a review of the limitation or withdraw consent at any time; and 

 (h) An assurance the interventions and support do not cause harm to the resident. 

 (3) The provider must: 

 (a) Maintain a copy of the completed and signed form documenting the consent to the individually based limitation described in section (2) of this rule. The form must be signed by the resident or the resident’s legal representative if applicable. The form must be available to the resident or the resident’s legal representative to access at any time; and. 

 (b) Request review of the individually based limitation by the person-centered service plan coordinator when a new individually based limitation is indicated, or change or removal of an individually-based limitation is needed. 

 (4) The qualities and obligations described in sections (1)(b)(g) do not apply to an resident receiving crisis-respite services, and a provider is not required to seek an individually-based limitation for such an resident to comply with these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.705 - 443.825 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 5-2025, amend filed 02/28/2025, effective 03/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 9-2017, f. 6-29-17, cert. ef. 7-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 3-2017(Temp), f. 3-3-17, cert. ef. 3-4-17 thru 8-30-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
