



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 MODEL RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR CONTESTED CASES 
 137-003-0615 
 Judicial Notice and Official Notice of Facts 
 
 (1) The administrative law judge may take notice of judicially cognizable facts on the record before issuance of the proposed order or in the proposed order or, if the administrative law judge has authority to issue a final order without first issuing a proposed order, before the final order is issued. The agency or party(ies) may present rebuttal evidence.  (2) The administrative law judge may take official notice of general, technical or scientific facts within the specialized knowledge of the administrative law judge.  (a) If the administrative law judge takes official notice of general, technical or scientific facts, the administrative law judge shall provide such notice to the parties and the agency, if the agency is participating in the contested case hearing, before the issuance of the proposed order or, if the administrative law judge has authority to issue a final order without first issuing a proposed order, before the final order is issued.  (b) The agency or a party may object or may present rebuttal evidence in response to the administrative law judge's official notice of general, technical or scientific facts.  (c) If an objection is made or if rebuttal evidence is presented, the administrative law judge shall rule before the issuance of the proposed order or in the proposed order or, if the administrative law judge has authority to issue a final order, in the final order on whether the noticed facts will be considered as evidence in the proceeding.  (3) Before the issuance of the proposed order or a final order issued by an administrative law judge, the agency may take notice of judicially cognizable facts and may take official notice of general, technical or scientific facts within the specialized knowledge of the agency as follows:  (a) The agency shall provide notice of judicially cognizable facts or official notice of general, technical or scientific facts in writing to the administrative law judge and parties to the hearing.  (b) A party may present rebuttal evidence in response to agency notice of judicially cognizable facts or official notice of general, technical or scientific facts.  (c) If a party presents rebuttal evidence, the administrative law judge shall rule on whether the noticed facts will be considered as evidence in the proceeding.  (4) After the issuance of a proposed order, the agency may take notice of judicially cognizable facts and may take official notice of general, technical or scientific facts within the specialized knowledge of the agency as follows:  (a) The agency shall provide notice of judicially cognizable facts or official notice of general, technical or scientific facts in writing to the parties to the hearing and, if authorized to issue a final order, to the administrative law judge.  (b) A party may object in writing to agency notice of judicially cognizable facts or official notice of general, technical or scientific facts with service on any other parties, the agency and, if authorized to issue a final order, on the administrative law judge in the manner required by OAR 137-003-0520. A party may request that the agency or, if authorized to issue a final order, the administrative law judge provide an opportunity for the party to present written or non-written rebuttal evidence.  (c) The agency may request the administrative law judge to conduct further hearing proceedings under OAR 137-003-0655 as necessary to permit a party to present rebuttal evidence.  (d) If a party presents rebuttal evidence, the agency or, if authorized to issue a final order, the administrative law judge shall rule in the final order on whether the noticed facts were considered as evidence. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341, 183.450(4) & OL 1999 & Ch. 849 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2005, f. 10-31-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 19-2003, f. 12-12-03, cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 10-1999, f. 12-23-99, cert. ef. 1-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
