



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Chapter 407 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 CLIENT RIGHTS 
 407-005-0025 
 Requesting a Reasonable Modification 
 
 (1) To request a reasonable modification to a Department program, service or activity a client applicant, client or public member must submit to program staff a request for a reasonable modification to the applicable program. Requests may be made verbally or by completing the Request for Reasonable Modification form.  (2) Upon receipt of a request for modification the Department will:  (a) Determine whether additional documentation regarding the claimed disability is needed and request such documentation;  (b) Within fifteen (15) working days of the request or the receipt of additional medical documentation, whichever is later, provide to the requestor notification of approval, approval with alternative modifications or denial of the request for reasonable modification. All denials and approvals with alternative modifications that were not requested will be clearly labeled a "Preliminary Notification Subject to Review."  (c) Ensure that approved modifications occur within a reasonable time.  (3) A "Reasonable Modification Team" means a two person team appointed by program managers that meet to evaluate a Request for Reasonable Modification decision that either denied the request or approved the request but with modifications other than those requested.  (4) This process may include additional communication with the individual requesting the Reasonable Modifications.  (5) Preliminary Notifications will automatically be reviewed by a Reasonable Modification Team that will notify the requestor of the final result of the review within fifteen (15) working days of the preliminary notification or within fifteen working days following receipt of medical or other supporting documentation requested by the Team, whichever is later.  (6) An individual whose request for reasonable modification has been denied or approved with alternative modifications which the individual believes to be inadequate may file a Report of Discrimination with the Department within 60 days of the final result or file a complaint with the appropriate federal regulatory agency within 180 days of the final result. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHSD 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
