



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Office of the State Chief Information Officer - Chapter 128 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 Providing Broadband Services and Operations to Non-State Entities 
 128-010-0035 
 Opportunity Notice to Telecommunications Providers and Other Interested Parties 
 
 (1) The Office will provide an Opportunity Notice to Telecommunications Providers and other interested parties that the Office seeks information to determine if any proposed Broadband services and operations are already offered by a Telecommunications Provider(s) in the area meeting or exceeding the proposed plan developed by the Office. 

 (2) The Office will provide notice of an Opportunity Notice as provided in Section 15(1)(e) of these Division 10 rules and to any parties that the requestor associated with an Opportunity Notice asks to be notified of the Opportunity Notice. 

 (3) The Opportunity Notice may include a request for information or a request for quotes from Telecommunications Providers that are intended to allow Telecommunications Providers to demonstrate their ability to provide the Broadband services and operations proposed by the Office to the Site proposed to be served within a reasonable time and for a reasonable cost. 

 (4) The Office may amend an Opportunity Notice at any time either on its own initiative, or in response to a request to amend the Opportunity Notice by the requestor. 

 (5) Any Telecommunications Provider or interested parties may submit a notice that it intends to submit an offer to provide the requested services within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the Opportunity Notice or any later date set forth in the Opportunity Notice. The Telecommunications Provider or other interested party must submit an offer to provide the requested services within such time as set forth in the Opportunity Notice. 

 (6) The Office may cancel an Opportunity Notice at any time, and for any reason. However, the Office may not provide Broadband services to any Site of a Non-State Entity that has been the subject of a cancelled Opportunity Notice unless it follows the procedures set forth in these Division 10 rules. 

 (7) Nothing in these Division 10 rules shall be construed to prohibit a telecommunication provider or any other person from communicating with requestor regarding an Opportunity Notice. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Or Laws 2018, ch 51 (HB 4023) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSCIO 1-2019, adopt filed 03/26/2019, effective 03/26/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
