



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 88 COMMUNITY SOLAR PROGRAM RULES 
 860-088-0020 
 Program Administrator 
 
 (1) The Commission will use a competitive bidding process to select a Program Administrator to administer the Community Solar Program.  (2) The duties of the Program Administrator include:  (a) Developing jointly with Commission Staff a Program Implementation Manual;  (b) Developing a budget and reporting actual expenditures and carryover to the Commission;  (c) Managing the performance of the Low-Income Facilitator and coordinating with the Low-Income Facilitator to meet any low-income capacity requirements;  (d) Registering Project Managers;  (e) Reviewing applications for project pre-certification and certification;  (f) Confirming participant eligibility in the Community Solar Program;  (g) Facilitating the exchange of customer electricity account information between electric companies and Project Managers;  (h) Establishing and maintaining a publicly-available queue of pre-certified projects in a manner that protects commercially sensitive or competitive information;  (i) Coordinating participants’ monthly bill crediting and conveying bill credit information to electric companies and Project Managers;  (j) Providing to electric companies participant ownership or subscription payment information obtained from Project Managers;  (k) Receiving from electric companies monies collected from participants, allocating monies, and maintaining monthly reports of receipts and allocations to submit to the Commission upon request;  (l) Monitoring Project Managers’ compliance with the standard of conduct set forth in the Program Implementation Manual and notifying the Commission of any compliance deficiency;  (m) Facilitating data exchange among electric companies, Project Managers, and the Commission;  (n) Managing data related to the Community Solar Program as set forth in the Program Implementation Manual, including implementing best practices for data security and privacy; and  (o) Performing other duties assigned by the Commission or set forth in the Program Implementation Manual. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
