



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 121 NAVIGABILITY DETERMINATIONS 
 141-121-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Affected Property Owners” refers to those people listed in the records of the county assessor as owners of property fronting, abutting or underlying, or having a recorded easement allowing access to a waterway segment at the time that the Division undertakes a navigability study of the subject waterway.  (2) “Broad And Substantial Public Interest” exists when the Land Board, after considering the public’s right to the use of a waterway segment and the authority of the state and local governments, determines that an administrative determination of navigability is required to:  (a) Help resolve conflicts between property owners, between users (including recreational users), or between users and affected property owners of a waterway segment;  (b) Facilitate management or protection of a waterway segment (for example, its environmental components or scenic, historic and cultural values); and/or  (c) Facilitate and promote commerce.  (3) “Declaration” is a final decision of the Land Board concerning the nature and extent of the state’s claim to the bed and banks underlying the waterway segment under consideration.  (4) “Division” means the Oregon Division of State Lands.  (5) “Land Board” means the Oregon State Land Board.  (6) “Navigable” and “Navigability” are defined by the criteria established by federal courts having jurisdiction to determine the extent of state ownership of land underlying a waterway segment.  (7) “Navigability Study” is the process of collecting, evaluating, and preparing a report relating to the use and characteristics of a waterway segment in order to determine if it is navigable.  (8) “Person” is an individual, special interest group, political subdivision or government agency, or any corporation, association, firm, partnership, joint stock company, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or quasi-public corporation.  (9) “Requester” is any person requesting that the Land Board direct the Division to conduct a navigability study.  (10) “Sufficient Economic Justification” exists when the Land Board decides that a determination of navigability will result in revenue accruing to the Common School Fund from a leasable use (as defined by Division administrative rules) of the waterway segment or underlying land (for example, the placement of marinas or log rafts, or the extraction of aggregate).  (11) “Title” is fee simple ownership to property, in this case, the bed and banks underlying a waterway segment.  (12) “Waterway” refers for the purposes of these rules to any discrete, identifiable body of water and its bed and banks in Oregon including, but not limited to, rivers, streams, and lakes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273.041 - 273.185 & 274.400 - 274.412 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274.400 - 274.412 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LB 4-1996, f. & cert. ef. 6-14-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
