



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Oregon Board of Maritime Pilots - Chapter 856 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 Training and Licensing 
 856-015-0037 
 Application for Temporary License for Military Spouse or Domestic Partner 
 
 (1) “Military spouse or domestic partner” means a spouse or domestic partner of an active member of the Armed Forces of the United States who is the subject of a military transfer to Oregon. 

 (2) A qualifying military spouse or domestic partner shall be granted a temporary, non-renewable state license as an Oregon maritime pilot, valid until the earliest of the following: 

 (a) Two years from issuance; 

 (b) The date the spouse of the temporary license holder completes his or her term of military service in Oregon; or 

 (c) The date the temporary license holder’s state maritime pilot in another state expires. 

 (3) To qualify for licensure as an Oregon, state-licensed maritime pilot under this rule, the military spouse or domestic partner must: 

 (a) Be married to, or in a domestic partnership with, a member of the Armed Forces of the United States who is assigned to a duty station located in Oregon by official active duty military order; 

 (b) Currently hold a state-issued license as a maritime pilot in another state of the United States. 

 ( c ) Be in good standing in the state where the state-issued maritime pilot license is held. Good standing, for purposes of this rule, means: the state maritime pilot license must not be subject to any restrictions, limitations, or pending, current, or prior discipline; the state maritime pilot license, is current with respect to all required, continuing professional development; and, the military spouse or domestic partner is not under investigation by the United States Coast Guard or the maritime pilot licensing body of his or her state of licensure; and 

 ( d ) Demonstrate competency by: 

 (A) Holding an unlimited federal pilot's endorsement for the ground(s) for which a temporary Oregon state license is sought; 

 (B) Holding a valid license as Master endorsed for Radar Observer issued by the U.S. Coast Guard; and 

 (C) Within the 12 months prior to applying under this rule, have lawfully piloted oceangoing vessels on all of the following trips: 

 (i) S ix trips on the bridge of a ship of not less than 500 feet length over-all (L.O.A.) into the upper harbor in Portland above the Burlington Northern Railroad Bridge, including at least one trip in each direction. 

 (ii) S ix trips while on the bridge of a ship of not less than 500 feet L.O.A., with at least three trips in each direction, in a combination that includes: from the Willamette River, turning east (upstream) into the Columbia River; and from the Columbia River upstream of the mouth of the Willamette River, turning south into the Willamette River. 

 (iii) Four trips from dock to dock or anchor to dock in the Willamette River pilotage grounds, while on ships not less than 500 feet L.O.A,  with each such trip requiring a 180 degree turn before docking. 

 (iv) Complete 25 crossings of the Coos Bay bar during hours of daylight. 

 (v) Complete 25 crossings of the Coos Bay bar during hours of darkness. 

 (vi) Dock and undock at least 25 vessels in the Coos Bay pilotage grounds. 

 (vii) 25 trips through each of the bridges in the Coos Bay pilotage grounds. 

 (viii) Complete 40 crossings of the Columbia River bar during hours of daylight. 

 (ix) Complete 40 crossing of the Columbia River bar during hours of darkness. 

 (x) Dock and undock at least 10 vessels to and from the Astoria Port Docks and Tongue Point. 

 (xi) Complete at least one hundred crossings of the Yaquina Bay bar with at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the bar crossings completed during the hours of darkness ;   

 (xii) Dock and undock at least 25 ships in the Yaquina Bay pilotage grounds and make at least 25 trips through the Yaquina Bay Bridge. 

 (4) The military spouse or domestic partner must submit: 

 (a) A nonrefundable license fee of $500. 

 (b) A copy of the applicant’s marriage certificate or domestic partnership registration with the name of the applicant and the name of the active duty member of the Armed Forces of the United States; 

 (c) A copy of the assignment to a duty station located in Oregon by official active duty military order for the spouse or domestic partner named in the marriage certificate or domestic partnership registration; 

 (d) Verification from the state in which the applicant holds a state-issued maritime pilot’s license; 

 (e) A copy of the applicant’s unlimited federal pilot's endorsement for the ground for which a state license is sought; 

 (f) A copy of the applicant’s valid license as Master endorsed for Radar Observer issued by the U.S. Coast Guard; 

 (g) A copy of the applicant’s current "Medical Certificate" issued by the U.S. Coast Guard; and . 

 (h) Affidavits completed by the owners or agents of all vessels applicant piloted to demonstrate the competence outlined in subsection (3)(d) of this rule, verifying that and when the applicant competently completed the trips specified in subsection (3)(d), as pilot of the vessel.  

   

   

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 776.115 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  SB 688, HB 3030 2019 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 1-2020, adopt filed 02/04/2020, effective 02/04/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 13-2019, temporary adopt filed 12/04/2019, effective 12/04/2019 through 05/31/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
