



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 RULES GOVERNING THE MANAGEMENT OF STATE-OWNED SUBMERGED AND SUBMERSIBLE LAND SUBJECT TO REMEDIATION AND HABITAT RESTORATION ACTIVITIES 
 141-145-0080 
 Closure of Submerged and Submersible Land Subject to Remedial Activity or Habitat Restoration to Public Use 
 
 (1) State-owned submerged and submersible land must remain open to Public Trust Uses unless a restriction is approved by the Department or other agencies with jurisdiction over navigation or public safety.  (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of division 88, a holder may close all or a portion of the authorized area to Public Trust Uses, or restrict Public Trust Uses within all or a portion of the authorized area, provided the closure or restriction is:  (A) Reasonably necessary to protect persons and property from harm arising from holder’s authorized use of the submerged and submersible land;  (B) Limited in duration; and  (C) Limited in scope.  (b) If the proposed closure or restriction is wholly or partially within the navigation channel of the waterway as established by the United States Coast Guard, or is located in such a way as to increase traffic in or otherwise impact use of the navigation channel, holder shall consult with the United States Coast Guard, the Oregon Marine Board and any applicable port prior to implementing the closure or restriction. Holder must comply with all requirements imposed by the United States Coast Guard and the Oregon Marine Board.  (c) The holder must provide written notice to the Department no less than fourteen (14) days prior to the implementation of any closure or restriction. The written notice must identify the need for and the scope, and duration of the closure or restriction, and must certify that holder has consulted and received approval from the United States Coast Guard and the Oregon Marine Board regarding the closure or restriction, if required under OAR 141-145-0080(1)(b).  (d) The Department, in its sole discretion, may at any time require holder to terminate or modify the closure or restriction. The Department, in its sole discretion, may at any time require the closure or restriction to be established pursuant to Division 88.  (2) The Director may impose restrictions on, or close state-owned land if the Director determines that the restriction or closure is necessary to facilitate or protect any removal or remedial action undertaken by or pursuant to an order issued by ODEQ or EPA.  (3) The procedures for imposing these restrictions are set forth in OAR 141-088-0008.  (4) The State Land Board may impose restrictions on or close state-owned land if the State Land Board determines that the restriction or closure is necessary to facilitate or protect a habitat restoration project.  (5) The procedures for imposing these restrictions are set forth in OAR 141-088-0006 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2014, f. 1-13-14, cert. ef. 2-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
