



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0105 
 Risk Management Records 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the risk management records of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Accident, Injuries and Incident Records: Records document the reporting and investigation of campus related accidents that result in injury to persons or their property. This record series may include accidents or incidents which involve hazardous chemical exposure; first aid reports; blood contaminations; body fluid spills; and other types of accidents. Records may include but are not limited to report of accident forms; complaints; investigation reports; insurance appraisals and estimates; photographs; and related documentation and correspondence and other campus incidents reports. Records document the reporting of accidents, criminal incidents, and other activities of the campus police or public safety office. Types of incidents may include vehicle accidents; fire alarm and fire drills, field interrogations; bookstore shoplifting incidents; telephone complaints and fraud; criminal incidents; motorist and public assistance requests; escort requests; suspicious behavior; requests to lock/unlock; and other security related activities. Records include but are not limited to incident reports which contain names, dates, course numbers, dollar values, locations, descriptions of incident, and personnel tallying report; copies of reports filed by Oregon State Police, the sheriff’s department, or other local lay enforcement agencies; notes and memos; vehicle accident reports; death reports; accident claims; damage liability, or loss of property reports; and correspondence. Records may be transferred or referred to Risk Management. (Minimum retention: five years).  (2) Business Continuity and Recovery Plans: Records document the development, implementation and updating of the college’s plans for operations during and recovery from emergencies or disasters. The records include draft and final plans; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Final plans: Until superseded; Other records: Until plan adopted).  (3) Environmental Health and Safety Plans and Procedures: Records document procedures to follow in the event of emergency such as earthquakes, floods, hazardous materials release, or other disaster. Records may include rules, plans, forms, and procedures which often relate to regulatory compliance according to OSHA standards such as hazardous communication standards, blood borne pathogens, or fork lift driver training. (Minimum retention: Adopted plans: 20 years; Other records if federal funding received: three years after annual or final expenditure report submitted; Other records if no federal funding received: two years).  (4) Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) Records: Records may be used by campus safety and security officers for law enforcement purposes in accordance with ORS 341.300, 101.542 and 133.005. Information in the reports may include but is not limited to car license plate number; name of registered owner; address of owner; and related data elements. (Minimum retention: one year).  (5) Hold Harmless/Liability Waivers: Records document the release of the college from liability relater to various activities involving students, or faculty, or staff. Waivers or hold harmless agreements may concern activities on college sponsored field trips, participation in physical education classes, and other activities. Information included in the waivers usually states that the participant assumes personal responsibility and holds the college blameless for any accident or injury; informs the student or participant of college insurance; describes the activity; and contains signatures and related information. (Minimum retention: six years after expiration).  (6) Insurance Claims: Records document requests for payment of personal or property claims filed by students, faculty, staff, or visitors to the college campus. Records may include but are not limited to copies of incident or accident report from the Public Safety department; narrative description of incident, accident, or injury; invoices; correspondence, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Accidents, Injuries, and Incident Reports in this section. (Minimum retention: Property claims: five years after all claims settled or closed; Personal claims: 10 years after all claims settled or closed).  (7) Insurance Policies: Records document the terms and conditions of insurance policies between the college and insurers. Types of insurance may include but are not limited to general liability, volunteer, property, computer equipment, automobile, professional child care, and workers compensation. Records may include but are not limited to insurance application forms which state information about college employees, building, and property needed to purchase insurance; and related correspondence and documentation. (Minimum retention: 10 years after policy expired).  (8) Key Issuance Records: Records document key assignments and deposits (if applicable) for college faculty, staff, students, and others using college facilities. Series also documents administration of the automatic access card system. Records may include but are not limited to key or access card issue approval forms; return forms; key and card inventories; paid receipts; refund forms; key and card logs; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: one year after key returned). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
