



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 780 PLUMBING FEES, PERMITS, INSPECTIONS 
 918-780-0045 
 Medical Gas System Plan Reviews 
 
 (1) The authority having jurisdiction shall require complete specifications and plans for medical gas system installations or proposed alterations prior to issuing a permit. Plans and specifications shall indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that the work will conform with the medical gas provisions of these rules. Sizing calculations may be requested by the administrative authority.  (2) Medical gas systems plan review may be waived by the authority having jurisdiction for small renovations, repairs or extensions to existing systems, if the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to determine compliance with the medical gas provisions of these rules.  (3) Where medical gas system plans, specifications or calculations are required by the authority having jurisdiction, such plans shall bear the seal and signature of an Oregon-registered professional engineer.  (4) When the medical gas systems plan review is completed by a qualified medical gas plan reviewer and a medical gas permit is issued, the plans shall be endorsed in writing and stamped "approved.” The approved plans shall not be changed without authorization from the inspecting authority having jurisdiction.  (5) Issuance of a permit or approval of plans shall not prevent the authority having jurisdiction from requiring the correction of errors in plans and specifications or from preventing construction operations when in violation of the Plumbing Specialty Code, or of any other ordinance or from revoking any certificate of approval when issued in error.  (6) The cost of plan review for medical gas systems work performed by the Building Codes Division shall be based on the time required to review the plans, but shall not exceed 30 percent of the total plumbing permit fee for the building or structure under review. When plans are incomplete or substantially changed so as to require additional plan review, additional plan review fees may be charged based on the additional time required. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 447.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 447.010 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 27-2000, f. 10-13-00 cert. ef. 10-01-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
