



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 YOUTH SUICIDE COMMUNICATION AND POST-INTERVENTION PLAN 
 309-027-0030 
 Communication Protocol
 
 
 (1) Each LMHA, in collaboration with tribes and community partners, shall identify local pathways for information-sharing and shall establish a Communication Protocol to communicate across and within the LMHA and community partners, including tribes, to inform and mobilize postvention response. This includes both a protocol from the LMHA to youth-serving entities and from any public school district, public university listed in ORS 352.002, and private post-secondary institution of education to the LMHA in the event of a suspected youth suicide death. 
(2) Communication Protocols from the LMHA to youth-serving entities shall, at the minimum: 
(a) Identify the tribes, community partners, and youth-serving entities involved in developing and implementing the protocol; 
(b) Identify the specific roles and responsibilities of the LMHA, community partners, and youth-serving entities for implementing the protocol; 
(c) Identify how a Communication Lead will be identified for responding to each suspected youth suicide. The  Communication Lead may vary among incidents, depending on the nature of the death, location of the death, age of the decedent, or other factors. The  Communication Lead may be an individual designated by a tribe, school district or university, the LMHA, another facility, or another community partner. The  Communication Lead is responsible for centralizing information-sharing activities in the event of a suspected youth suicide; 
(d) Detail the communication-sharing process among community partners, including tribes; and 
(e) Identify the process for determining the specific information and data that will be communicated from the LMHA via the Communication Lead to all relevant youth-serving entities or individuals. This may vary based on the specific circumstances of the youth suicide death, but must include: 
(A) The name of the decedent; 
(B) The birthdate of the decedent; 
(C) The date of death of the decedent; 
(D) Any other information that the local mental health authority determines is necessary to preserve the public health and that is not otherwise protected from public disclosure by state or federal law. 
(3) The LMHA shall document the completed Communication Protocol in writing and submit to the Coordinator within 120 days of the effective date of these rules, and annually on or before December 15th. 
(4) At least annually on or before December 15th, each LMHA, in collaboration with community partners, shall review the Communication Protocol and evaluate the protocol’s effectiveness over the past year, and provide a rationale for all revisions to the Coordinator. The Communication Protocol shall be updated and provided to the Coordinator within two weeks of a change of LMHA staff named in the protocol. 
(5) The Coordinator shall: 
(a) Review the communication protocols submitted by the LMHAs; 
(b) Review any revisions to the communication protocols as submitted annually; and 
(c) Provide feedback to the LMHA, including information on best practices, and offer technical assistance for preparation and implementation of the protocols. 
(6) Communication Protocols from any public school district, public university listed in ORS 352.002, or private post-secondary institution of education to LMHAs shall, at the minimum: 
(a) Identify the staff member responsible for notifying the LMHA of a suspected suicide death; 
(b) Include the following information in the notification: 
(A) The date of the death, or approximate date if not known; 
(B) That the suspected manner of death is suicide; and 
(C) A name, phone number, and email address for the school representative. 
(c) No requirement of this section requires disclosure of information that is protected by state or federal public disclosure law. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042, 430.630 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.735 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 6-2021, amend filed 02/24/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 24-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-5-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
