



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 23 SCHOOL FINANCE 
 581-023-0240 
 School Revenue Forecast 
 
 (1) The following definitions and abbreviations apply to this rule:  (a) "ADMw" means weighted average daily membership or the ADM plus an additional amount, as set forth in ORS 327.013.  (b) "Extended ADMw" means ADMw or ADMw of the prior year, whichever is greater.  (2) The Department of Education will provide each school district and education service district with revenue forecasts for the ensuing three years annually in January.  (3) These forecasts will be based on a forecast from the Department of Administrative Services in December of each year of a statewide allowable growth factor of general operating revenue per extended ADMw that can reasonably be expected for each of the next three fiscal years.  (4) The Department of Education will calculate — based on current law, estimates of ADMw, and of other state school fund formula factors — the distribution of those revenues to each education district.  (5) K–12 education districts should use these forecast revenues in developing their budgets and other considerations for expenditure levels, including collective bargaining, contractual commitments, and program changes.  (6) Districts shall report by letter to the Department of Education each year by March 31 conditions that do not allow them to operate within the forecast revenue for the ensuing year. Such conditions may include:  (a) Projected changes in the costs of employee salaries, benefits, supplies, purchased services, capital outlay, or other factors;  (b) Changes in economic or demographic conditions within the district;  (c) Changes in revenues outside state school funding;  (d) Other factors. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 327 & Gov. Ex. Order 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 327 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 24-2001, f. & cert. ef. 11-7-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
