



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Chapter 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 SCHOOL SAFETY TIP LINE PROGRAM 
 257-095-0060 
 Receipt of Tips of Reportable Incidents 
 
 Tips received via the SSTL are classified and processed for appropriate school, school district or Education Service District, local law enforcement or service provider response.  (1) When the SSTL receives an incoming communication, the Tip Line Technician shall:  (a) Ask the caller's identity (for tips provided via phone and text) or confirm the identity of the person making the tip (for tips provided via website or application on a mobile device). If the person making the tip does not wish to disclose their identity, the Tip Line Technician shall also accept an anonymous tip;  (b) The Tip Line Technician shall immediately assess the situation and ensure that students (and others) are safe from harm. The Tip Line Technician may not delay in contacting responders and/or school officials if there is an immediate threat to safety;  (c) Tip Line Technicians will attempt to capture and confirm the following data by asking questions identified on templates. Components of this factual accounting process may include but are not limited to:  (i) Who is/was involved in the incident? The name of any person reported to be involved in the incident must be documented. The reporter may choose to be anonymous;  (ii) The school where the individual making the tip (if applicable) and student(s) involved are enrolled and the age of the students involved;  (iii) Specific details about the location of incident (i.e. building name/number, floor, room number, etc.);  (iv) Whether the individual reporting an incident is reporting about him/herself or another party;  (v) If more than one person is involved in the incident, the relationship, if any, of those other individuals to the school or school system;  (vi) What happened, (who did/said what to whom, etc.);  (vii) When the incident occurred (time and date, prior events if any);  (viii) Whether a school staff member was notified, and how the school responded;  (ix) Whether treatment by a service provider was sought;  (x) Name of additional institutions/agencies involved.  (d) Tip Line Technicians will use their training and expertise to categorize by type of incident and prioritize a reported or potential threat to school safety by defined level of urgency for response.  (2) The SSTL software may capture Caller ID information, email addresses, and/or Internet Protocol (IP) addresses as part of the technical solution. This information will only be retrieved, used or disclosed in accordance with Oregon Law and these rules.  (3) The Tip Line Technician shall log all tip information into the SSTL system and transmit the tip electronically to the appropriate school, school district or Education Service District, service provider or local law enforcement contacts. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 2016, ch 74 & section 1(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016 & ch 74 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 3-2016(Temp), f. 12-13-16, cert. ef. 12-14-16 thru 6-10-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
