



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 SURFACE WATER REGISTRATIONS  AND THE ADJUDICATION PROCESS 
 690-028-0040 
 Standards to Evaluate Claims 
 
 (1) Each claim or registration statement for existing beneficial uses shall be compared to all information submitted for consistency regarding settlement of the area and general development of projects. The burden of proof to establish a claim by a preponderance of relevant evidence rests on the claimant.  (2) Lands identified as practicably irrigable acreage shall be evaluated based on the physical characteristics as they compare to lands commonly identified with growing a particular crop. The Department may consult with federal or state agricultural agencies, or any other person with appropriate expertise to verify factors for determining arable lands.  (3) For any river basin or subbasin the Director may propose rates and duties of water to be allowed per acre of irrigated lands and of practicably irrigable acreage. The Director may schedule a public hearing to accept information and testimony about the appropriateness of those limitations.  (4) The Director may propose rates and duties for watering stock from streams, for lands that are naturally flooded, or for other beneficial uses as appropriate. The Director may schedule a public hearing to accept information and testimony about the appropriateness of those limitations.  (5) Instream flow requirements shall be based on hydrological estimates or gaging data that can be obtained for the particular stream reach. The Department shall prepare an estimate of natural flows that would be available in the stream reach. The water availability estimate shall account for current usage of the water resource. The Director may require additional documentation of instream flow requirements if the claim is greater than the estimated average natural flow or level for the stream reach. If the physical conditions of a waterway have changed since the reservation lands were established then the Department may consult with federal or state fisheries agencies, or any other person with appropriate expertise to aid in determining natural flows necessary to maintain the primary purpose or purposes of the reservation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 539 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 10-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 22-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
