



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 REST AREA SPONSORSHIP ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SIGN PROGRAM 
 734-031-0025 
 Acknowledgement Sign Design and Placement 
 
 (1) When an Acknowledgement Sign is used for sponsorship recognition on the mainline of the adjacent state highway or the Rest Area entrance or exit ramp, or is in a Rest Area and legible to motorists using the Rest Area, it must conform to the signing standards in the MUTCD and design standards adopted by the Department. Such Acknowledgement Signs must not have moving elements or simulate movement, have bold or vibrant colors, or be attached to, imitate or interfere with any traffic control device.  (2) When the sponsorship is for a specific Rest Area feature or a component of a specific Rest Area feature, one Acknowledgement Sign may be installed in the Rest Area placed at or as close as practical to the feature being sponsored. The sign will not be installed in a location where it would obscure a Rest Area visitor’s view of traffic control devices, interfere with the regular use of the Rest Area by Rest Area visitors, or be visible from the mainline highway. The sign will say ‘_____________ SPONSORED BY’ on the first line and the Participant name or acronym on the next one or two lines.  (3) When the sponsorship is for the overall Rest Area, one Acknowledgement Sign for each direction of travel may be installed on the mainline upon approval of the Department. The Acknowledgement Sign may be an independent sign assembly or an acknowledgement plaque/rider added to an existing sign and placed as close as practicable to the entrance to the Rest Area and will say ‘REST AREA SPONSORED BY’ on the first line with the Participant name or acronym on the next one or two lines. Acknowledgement Signs on the mainline must be static, non-changeable signs and shall not be overhead installations. When the Acknowledgement Sign on the mainline is an independent sign assembly, it must be located at least 500 feet from any other traffic control device. In addition, one Acknowledgement Sign may be placed in the Rest Area provided the sign is not visible to the mainline highway and does not pose a safety risk to Rest Area users. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Federal Policy 5160.1A, ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 366.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 366.205 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
