



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DISTRICTS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL RECORDS 
 166-400-0035 
 Library and Media Records 
 
 (1) Acquisition and Deaccession Records Records document the process of requesting, purchasing, and acquiring, as well as deaccessioning, books, periodicals, audio-visual, and other library materials. Records may include but are not limited to accession and deaccession registers; correspondence with publishers; questionnaires; request forms; bibliographic data; receipt notations; and related documentation. SEE ALSO Library Catalog Records in this section. Minimum retention:(a) Retain registers: Until superseded or obsolete (b) Retain all other records: 3 years after school year in which records were created.  (2) Audio-Visual Materials and Equipment Loan Records Records document the loan, rental, scheduling, and delivery of audio-visual or media material and equipment to school, district, or ESD faculty or staff. Records may include but are not limited to request forms; extension and cancellation records; borrower identification; title and material identification; shipping or delivery information; booking records; attendance and number of times media used or shown; usage statistics; accounting records concerning the cost of material; and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain extension and cancellation records: 1 month (b) Retain equipment inventories: 3 years after superseded or obsolete (c) Retain all other records: 3 years after school year in which records were created.  (3) Circulation Records Records document the borrowing of circulating library, audio-visual, media, and learning resource center materials by students and faculty. Records may include but are not limited to name of the borrower, title of material borrowed, due date, overdue status, overdue notices, and related documentation. Records may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(21). Minimum retention: (a) Retain overdue records: Until material is returned or debts reconciled or deemed uncollectible (b) Retain all other records: 1 year after school year in which records were created.  (4) Copyright and Duplication Records Records document permission received from authors, publishers, producers, and distributors of video programs and other media and materials to allow the school, district, and ESD to duplicate the material without copyright infringement. Records may include but are not limited to agreements which state the terms and conditions, copyright releases, authorizing signatures, and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: 6 years after agreement expires.  (5) Library and Media Inventory Records Records document approved lists of books, periodicals, audio-visual materials, and other library materials. Records may include but are not limited to annual inventories; and lists of books, periodicals, audio-visual materials, and other materials; and lists of books and materials on specific subjects. Lists document material approved for use in the school or district; materials that may be borrowed from centralized media and resource centers; and are used in the acquisition of materials. Records generally include titles, bibliographic descriptions, and identification numbers. Minimum retention: 3 years after superseded.  (6) Library Catalog Records Records document the maintenance, and retrieval of the holdings of the school library; professional library; teaching resource center; and audio-visual, media, or resource center of the school, district, and ESD. Records may include but are not limited to the card or electronic catalog which contains the bibliographic records of the holdings; holdings records which contain data on items in circulation; and related documentation. SEE ALSO Acquisition and Deaccession Records in this section. Minimum retention: Until superseded or disposal of material.  (7) Supplemental Materials Selection and Adoption Records Records document the process of evaluation, selection, and approval of supplemental educational materials for use by a school, district, or ESD and inclusion in the library, learning resource center, or media center. Records may also be used for budget, audit, and insurance purposes. Supplemental materials may include library books, periodicals, audio-visual materials, instructional computer software, and related materials. Records may include but are not limited to bibliographic data; summary of content; evaluations; evaluator records including applications, rosters, and expense records; records documenting citizen complaints about educational material; and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: 7 years after school year in which records were created. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 & Other Auth. Code of Federal Regulations Title 34 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 166-410-0010, OSA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
