



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0345 
 Elementary Education — Multiple Subjects: Program Standards
 
 
 (1) Candidates who are prepared for the Elementary Education — Multiple Subjects endorsement will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of students in elementary education learning environments. 

 (2) The Commission may provide approval to an educator preparation program that prepares candidates for an Elementary Education — Multiple Subjects endorsement only if it includes: 

 (a) Content that will enable candidates to gain the knowledge, skills, abilities, professional dispositions, and cultural competencies to meet the standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (b) Content that will enable candidates to meet reading instruction requirements as provided in OAR 584-420-0015; 

 (c) Content that will enable candidates to meet dyslexia instruction requirements as provided in OAR 584-420-0016; 

 (d) A requirement for candidates to complete the Commission-approved test for Elementary-Multiple Subjects or meet the requirements of at least one Multiple Measures content knowledge assessment option for this endorsement area; 

 (e) A requirement for candidates to complete a teacher performance assessment as provided in OAR 584-400-0120; 

 (f) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships in elementary education classrooms; and integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Elementary Education — Multiple Subjects Endorsement program. 

 (3) DEVELOPMENT, LEARNING, AND MOTIVATION. Standard 1: Development, Learning, and Motivation — Candidates know, understand, and use the major concepts, principles, theories, and research related to development of children and young adolescents to construct learning opportunities that support individual students’ development, acquisition of knowledge, and motivation. 

 (4) CURRICULUM. Standard 2: Reading, Writing, and Oral Language — Candidates demonstrate a high level of competence in use of English language arts and they know, understand, and use concepts from reading, language and child development, to teach reading, writing, speaking, viewing, listening, and thinking skills and to help students successfully apply their developing skills to many different situations, materials, and ideas. 

 (5) Standard 3 : Science — Candidates know, understand, and use fundamental concepts of physical, life, and earth/space sciences. Candidates can design and implement age-appropriate inquiry lessons to teach science, to build student understanding for personal and social applications, and to convey the nature of science. 

 (6) Standard 4: Mathematics — Candidates know, understand, and use the major concepts and procedures that define number and operations, algebra, geometry, measurement, and data analysis and probability. In doing so they consistently engage problem solving, reasoning and proof, communication, connections, and representation. 

 (7) Standard 5: Social Studies — Candidates know, understand, and use the major concepts and modes of inquiry from the social studies — the integrated study of history, geography, the social sciences, and other related areas — to promote elementary students’ abilities to make informed decisions as citizens of a culturally diverse democratic society and interdependent world. 

 (8) Standard 6: The Arts — Candidates know, understand, and use — as appropriate to their own understanding and skills — the content, functions, and achievements of the performing arts (dance, music, theater) and the visual arts as primary media for communication, inquiry, and engagement among elementary students. 

 (9) Standard 7: Health education — Candidates know, understand, and use the major concepts in the subject matter of health education to create opportunities for student development and practice of skills that contribute to good health. 

 (10) Standard 8: Physical education — Candidates know, understand, and use — as appropriate to their own understanding and skills—human movement and physical activity as central elements to foster active, healthy life styles and enhanced quality of life for elementary students. 

 (11) INSTRUCTION. Standard 9: Integrating and applying knowledge for instruction — Candidates plan and implement instruction based on knowledge of students, learning theory, connections across the curriculum, curricular goals, and community. 

 (12) Standard 10: Adaptation to diverse student s — Candidates understand how elementary students differ in their development and approaches to learning, and create instructional opportunities that are adapted to diverse students. 

 (13) Standard 11: Development of critical thinking and problem solving — Candidates understand and use a variety of teaching strategies that encourage elementary students’ development of critical thinking and problem solving. 

 (14) Standard 12: Active engagement in learning — Candidates use their knowledge and understanding of individual and group motivation and behavior among students at the K–6 level to foster active engagement in learning, self-motivation, and positive social interaction and to create supportive learning environments. 

 (15) Standard 13: Communication to foster collaboration — Candidates use their knowledge and understanding of effective verbal, nonverbal, and media communication techniques to foster active inquiry, collaboration, and supportive interaction in the elementary classroom. 

 (16) ASSESSMENT. Standard 14: Assessment for instruction — Candidates know, understand, and use formal and informal assessment strategies to plan, evaluate and strengthen instruction that will promote continuous intellectual, social, emotional, and physical development of each elementary student. 

 (17) PROFESSIONALISM. Standard 15: Professional growth, reflection, and evaluation — Candidates are aware of and reflect on their practice in light of research on teaching, professional ethics, and resources available for professional learning; they continually evaluate the effects of their professional decisions and actions on students, families and other professionals in the learning community and actively seek out opportunities to grow professionally. 

 (18) Standard 16: Collaboration with families, colleagues, and community agencies — Candidates know the importance of establishing and maintaining a positive collaborative relationship with families, school colleagues, and agencies in the larger community to promote the intellectual, social, emotional, physical growth and well-being of children. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.147 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 14-2022, amend filed 10/20/2022, effective 11/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 24-2021, minor correction filed 11/30/2021, effective 11/30/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 4-2016(Temp), f. 8-31-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 thru 2-27-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 13-2015(Temp), f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
