



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Licensing Office - Chapter 331 
 
 
 
 
 Division 915 TATTOO 
 331-915-0070 
 General Standards for Tattooing
 
 
 (1) The cleanliness of any common area in a facility is the responsibility of each license holder. All license holders may be cited for violations found in the common area. 

 (2) An individual licensed to perform services in a field of practice or a licensed facility owner must: 

 (a) Use and maintain appropriate equipment and instruments for providing services in a field of practice at the place of business; 

 (b) Use all equipment, instruments and supplies, including but not limited to marking instruments, in a manner described in the manufacturer’s instructions which is consistent with the manufacturer’s intended use of the device by the FDA; 

 (c) Ensure a high-level disinfectant is used in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions to disinfect surfaces where services are performed; 

 (d) Ensure all chemicals are stored in labeled, closed containers; 

 (e) Ensure that single-use disposable paper products, single-use needles, sterilized jewelry and protective gloves are used for each client. Use of towels and linens are prohibited; 

 (f) Have unrestricted access to a sink with hot and cold running water on the facility premises and separate from a restroom; 

 (g) Ensure restrooms located within the facility are kept clean and in good working order at all times. Air blowers within restrooms can be substituted for disposable hand towels; 

 (h) Ensure all waste material related to a service, be enclosed in a glove or bag, disposed of in a covered container with a garbage liner following a service on a client. Service-related waste is prohibited from being disposed of in non-service related areas, such as lobby or waiting areas; 

 (i) Ensure all sharp objects that come in contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials be disposed of in a sharps container; 

 (j) Ensure biohazard labels or red biohazard bags are available on the facility premises; 

 (k) Adhere to all Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Standards; 

 (l) Ensure pets or other animals are not on the premises of the body art facility unless they service animals recognized by the American with Disabilities Act or to fish in aquariums or nonpoisonous reptiles in terrariums; 

 (m) Ensure all disinfecting solutions or agents be kept at adequate strengths to maintain effectiveness, be free of foreign material and be available for immediate use at all times the facility is open for business; 

 (n) Ensure that all instruments that come in contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials be either disposed of or sterilized according to requirements including completely disassembling the tattoo machine including grips or handles. (o) Ensure that all jewelry used for initial piercings is sterilized before use on a client in accordance with OAR 331-900-0125; 

 (o) Ensure that single-use disposable paper products, needles, and protective gloves or personal protection equipment including but not limited to aprons are not reused on clients. Use of towels and linens are prohibited; 

 (p) Ensure bottles used for rinsing tattoos, grips and clip cords are covered during a tattoo procedure and sterilized or disinfected following service on each client; 

 (q) Ensure if bottles used for rinsing tattoos are filled with distilled or sterilized water; 

 (r) Dilute inks, dyes, and pigments using sterile or distilled water; and 

 (s) Ensure inks, dyes, and pigments are stored in a way to prevent contamination through touch or air particulates, including, but not limited to, a closed cabinet or drawer. Proper hand washing and gloving techniques must be used before handling or dispensing inks, dyes and pigments. 

 (3) A licensee must wear eye goggles, shields or a mask if spattering is possible while providing services. 

 (4) All substances must be dispensed in a single use container and discarded at the end of each procedure to prevent cross contamination. 

 (5) Single use tubes, containers and applicators must be discarded following service on each client. 

 (6) Cross contamination from touch or air particulates in any procedure area that comes in direct contact with client is prohibited. 

 (7) Between each service area there must be a clean nonporous barrier unless services are being provided under an event facility license in which five feet must be between each client to prevent contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials. 

   

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  676.615, 690.390 & 690.405 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  690.390 & 690.405 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLO 1-2018, amend filed 01/04/2018, effective 01/04/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLO 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-6-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 15-2013, f. 12-30-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 1-16-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 15-2012(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-15-12 thru 4-12-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-25-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
