



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 204 MEDIA ACCESS 
 291-204-0050 
 Requesting Access to Facilities and Programs 
 
 (1) The Department will accommodate requests by media representatives for access to Department facilities and programs if the access is consistent with the Department’s policies and procedures set forth in these rules. The decision whether to approve a request for media access is committed to the sole discretion of the functional unit manager.  (2) Generally, the Department requires at least 24-hour advance notice to accommodate requests for access.  (3) The Department will accommodate requests for access only during normal business hours. When a program or newsworthy event occurs outside normal business hours, access will be dependent on availability of a PIO or staff escort designed by the functional unit manager.  (4) Media representatives may arrange for tours of Department prisons in accordance with the Department’s rules on Tours (OAR 291-009).  (5) Requests for media access that, in the judgment of the functional unit manager, may jeopardize the safety and security of the facility, staff, visitors or inmates will be denied.  (6) Process to Request Access: Media representatives who desire to access a DOC facility shall contact the appropriate PIO or Public Affairs Manager. The media representative will be provided with a “Media Access Request” form (CD 204) to complete.  (7) If a request for access is authorized, the media representative(s) must submit the following information for a security check:  (a) Full name;  (b) Date of birth;  (c) Driver license number; and  (d) List of cities and states lived in over the past five years.  (8) Once approved, the PIO will discuss with the media representative the appropriate date, time, clothing and equipment allowed in facilities and any other pertinent information.  (9) Entering the Facility: Media representatives must bring credentials and valid photo identification to be temporarily surrendered at the facility visiting desk in exchange for Department identification.  (10) Media representatives are subject to the same facility security screening policies and procedures (e.g., metal detectors) as are visitors, as set forth in the Department’s rule on Visiting Security Screening and Visiting Room Protocol (OAR 291-127-0290).  (11) Media equipment is subject to Tools of the Trade (OAR 291-204-0070) and the Department’s rules on Facility Access (OAR 291-016).  (12) The PIO or other designated staff will escort media representatives through the facility and be present at all times during the visit or tour.  (13) If, at any time before or during a media visit or tour, the Department determines that a potential threat to safety or security exists, the visit or tour will be suspended and the media representative(s) must comply with direction of their staff escort.  (14) Access to special housing units or sensitive areas generally will not be permitted. Exceptions may be made by the functional unit manager, in his or her sole discretion, in extraordinary circumstances.  (15) Photographs or other recordings made in a DOC facility or on other Department property requires prior authorization. Taking photographs or video of control centers or electronic security equipment is strictly prohibited.  (a) Identifiable inmates who consent to appearing in a photograph or other recordings will be required to sign a media consent form CD 297 prior to the taking of the photograph or video.  (b) Children participating in a program may be interviewed or photographed only with appropriate written consent of a parent or legal guardian.  (16) Impromptu, unscheduled interviews, video and audio recordings, or photographs of staff, inmates and others may be permitted if the individuals consent and the functional unit manager or facility PIO determine that the interview or photo opportunity would not:  (a) Unduly delay a tour;  (b) Be overly disruptive of facility or program operations;  (c) Compromise inmates’ correctional plans or rehabilitation; and  (d) Would not present safety or security concerns.  (17) Any attempt by a media representative to disregard the conditions for access or directions of staff may result in immediate termination of access to the facility.  (18) Access is limited to one media outlet at a time unless the functional unit manager determines otherwise. In the event of news of great public interest, the Department encourages media to pursue pool arrangements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 8-2006, f. & cert. ef. 8-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
