



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Youth Development Division - Chapter 423 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 Juvenile Detention Facilities 
 423-150-0005 
 Guidelines for Juvenile Detention Facilities 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, “juvenile detention facility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 169.005. 

 (2) For the purpose of developing guidelines pertaining to the operation of juvenile detention facilities as required by ORS 169.090, the Youth Development Division shall convene an advisory workgroup to solicit advice from the following: 

 (a) The Governor’s office; 

 (b) The Department of Corrections; 

 (c) The Youth Development Council; 

 (d) The Oregon Youth Authority; 

 (e) The Oregon Department of Education; 

 (f) The Oregon Judicial Department; 

 (g) The Oregon Juvenile Director’s Association; 

 (h) At least one organization of this state representing youth in the juvenile court system; 

 (i) At least one county juvenile director from a county operating a juvenile detention facility; 

 (j) At least one organization of this state representing Oregon counties; 

 (k) At least one person representing Oregon tribes; 

 (l) At least one organization of this state representing the rights of disabled persons; 

 (m) At least one organization of this state representing the rights of minorities; and 

 (n) The Legislative Policy and Research Office. 

 (3) The division shall prepare the guidelines in accordance with the recommendations of the workgroup. 

 (4) After preparing the guidelines, the division shall provide the guidelines to the Director of the Department of Corrections and the Youth Development Council for approval. The director and the council may direct the division to revise the guidelines. The guidelines must be approved by both the director and the council before they may be published and distributed as required by ORS 169.090. 

 (5) At least once every two years, the division shall review guidelines approved under this rule to determine whether revising the guidelines would be appropriate. If the division determines that revising the guidelines would be appropriate, the division shall inform the department and the council of the determination. 

 (6) If the department or council determines that revising guidelines approved under this rule is appropriate, the department or council shall direct the division to convene an advisory workgroup as described in subsection (2) of this rule to solicit advice on how to revise the guidelines. 

 (7) At least once every six years, the division shall convene a workgroup as described in subsection (2) of this rule to determine whether revising guidelines approved under this rule would be appropriate. If the workgroup determines that revising the guidelines would be appropriate, the division shall solicit from the workgroup advice on how to revise the guidelines. 

 (8) Rules revised under this rule must be prepared and approved in accordance with subsections (3) and (4) of this rule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.847 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 169.090(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YDD 3-2019, adopt filed 08/21/2019, effective 08/21/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
