



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 GENERAL OCEAN SHORE STATE RECREATION AREA RULES 
 736-021-0100 
 Visitor Conduct
 
 
 (1) A person may not mutilate, deface, damage, or remove any property, structure or facility of any kind in the ocean shore state recreation area, except as provided in OAR 736-021-0090. 

 (2) A person may not leave any material not found naturally on the ocean shore, including garbage, recyclables, sewage, or waste, on the ocean shore state recreation area. 

 (3) A person may not engage in the following activities on the ocean shore state recreation area: 

 (a) Possessing or using alcoholic beverage(s) if the person is under 21 years of age; 

 (b) Fighting or promoting, instigating or encouraging fighting or similar violent conduct that would threaten the physical well-being of any person; 

 (c) Activities or conduct that constitutes a public nuisance or hazard; or 

 (d) Public indecency as defined in ORS 163.465; 

 (4) A person may only engage in the following activities on the ocean shore state recreation area as authorized in a special use permit that they obtain from the department pursuant to OAR chapter 736, division 16 or written permission from the park manager: 

 (a) Use or operation of any noise or light-producing machine, vehicle, device or instrument in a manner that may disturb persons or wildlife; 

 (b) Possessing, discharging, or causing to be discharged, any firecracker, explosives, torpedoes, rockets, or fireworks or other substances; 

 (c) Using a metal detector or similar device in any property not listed on the “Detecting Allowed” list, published on the department website; 

 (d) Blocking, obstructing or interfering with pedestrian or vehicular traffic; 

 (e) Descending, scaling or technical rock climbing on rock formations and cliffs; 

 (f) Entering or occupying any portion of the ocean shore state recreation area that has been closed to public access, including fenced areas; and 

 (g) Constructing a structure or sign. 

 (5) A person may only operate an unmanned aircraft system from the ocean shore within a UAS Operation Area designated under subsection (b). The person must meet any UAS Pass requirement under subsection (f). 

 (a) A person must operate an unmanned aircraft system in compliance with applicable federal aviation laws and regulations and in a manner that is reasonable and prudent relative to terrain, prevailing conditions, equipment, personal capabilities, and the safety of all park users and wildlife. Harassment of wildlife is prohibited under OAR 736-010-0055. 

 (b)The director or designee may designate, modify, suspend, or rescind a UAS Operation Area at any time based on visitor safety, resource protection, user conflict, operational constraints, or other management objectives. 

 (c) UAS Operation Area designations may cover an entire ocean shore area or any section and may be year‑round or limited by season, time of day, or other conditions. Designations may be added, modified, suspended, or rescinded on a temporary or long-term basis based on visitor safety, resource protection, seasonal conditions, or operational needs. 

 (d) The department will publish a map of each UAS Operation Area and its conditions on its website at least 30 days before the designation becomes effective, except when immediate action is required in an emergency. UAS operation areas may also be identified through signage or other public communication methods. 

 (A) Designations may be added, modified, suspended, or rescinded on a temporary or long-term basis based on visitor safety, resource protection, seasonal conditions, or operational needs. 

 (B) The department will document the basis for designation or modification. 

 (e) Restrictions for Western Snowy Plover Management areas described in OAR 736-021-0090(15) apply to the operation of an unmanned aircraft system. 

 (f) The department will prohibit UAS operation within a half mile of a boundary to federally or state protected areas explicitly prohibiting UAS takeoff and landing unless with permission from the adjacent land manager. 

 (g) The department may require a UAS Pass as a condition of using a UAS Operation Area based on seasonal resource sensitivity, high visitation, user conflict, or operational capacity. The department may limit the number of UAS passes allowed per day or impose other use limits. Failure to obtain or comply with a required UAS Pass may result in enforcement action up to and including a Class A violation. 

 (h) Public safety agencies, utility providers and other governmental entities acting within official duties may operate unmanned aircraft systems during emergencies without prior approval. 

 (i) Public safety agencies and utility providers acting within their official capacity may operate an unmanned aircraft system for non-emergency purposes on park property, provided the agency notifies OPRD in advance. 

 (j) Operating an unmanned aircraft system in violation of this section may result in enforcement action up to and including a Class A violation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.660 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.635, 390.655 & 390.660 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 3-2026, amend filed 04/27/2026, effective 05/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 1-2013, f. 1-15-13, cert. ef. 2-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 9-1994, f. 11-29-94, cert. ef. 12-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
