



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Chapter 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 FIELD SOBRIETY TESTS 
 257-025-0020 
 Conducting Approved Field Sobriety Tests 
 
 (1) Nothing in this rule prohibits the police officer from providing additional information to the person asked or requested to take the field sobriety tests that the officer considers convenient or appropriate. By way of example, but not limitation, the officer may orally describe some or all of the tests intended to be administered. Prior to the administration of each field sobriety test, the officer shall generally explain the field sobriety test to the person requested to take the test. The field sobriety tests shall be administered substantially as described below. Each field sobriety test, as described below, is specifically found to meet the requirements of ORS 801.272:  (a) Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus: The police officer must have received training in the administration of the Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus (HGN) test by the Oregon State Police, BPSST, or other governmental entity prior to its administration under this rule. The officer shall use a stimulus (such as a finger, pencil or penlight) held vertically in front of the person’s face approximately 12 to 15 inches away from the person’s face. The person tested must hold their head still. The officer, during the administration of the testing procedures, should conduct the testing procedures in the order listed unless circumstances or conditions dictate otherwise:  (A) The officer shall move the stimulus from the center of the face to the side, checking for the lack of smooth pursuit of the eyes as they track the stimulus;  (B) The officer shall check for distinct nystagmus at the maximum deviation of each eye;  (C) The officer shall check for the onset of nystagmus prior to 45 degrees in each eye.  (b) Walk and Turn Test: The officer will instruct the person, while standing, to place the person’s left foot on a line (if no line is available, use a general direction for the person to walk an imaginary line) then place the right foot on the line with the heel of that foot ahead of the toes of the left foot. Instruct the person to take nine steps down the line, keeping arms at sides, looking at feet, and counting each step while walking heel-to-toe. Instruct the person how to turn (at the discretion of the officer) and to walk back in the same manner previously described. Generally demonstrate the test.  (c) One Leg Stand: Instruct the person to stand straight with the person’s feet together and arms at the sides. Instruct the person to raise one foot approximately six inches off the ground while looking at the foot, and to count “1001, 1002, 1003,” etc., until told to stop by the officer. The officer will then time the person for thirty seconds. The person will count 1001, 1002, 1003, etc., until told to stop by the officer. The officer may conduct the same test with the other foot. Generally demonstrate the test.  (d) Romberg Balance Test:  (A) Instruct the person to stand straight with feet together with arms at the person’s sides.  (B) While standing as described above, instruct the person to tilt their head backward, close their eyes and estimate the passage of thirty seconds before opening their eyes again. Generally demonstrate the test.  (e) Modified Finger to Nose Test: Instruct the person to stand straight with heels together, eyes closed, arms at sides, and head tilted back. Instruct the person to touch the end of the person’s nose with end of the index finger by bringing the person’s arm and hand from the person’s side directly to the end of the nose. Have the person repeat for the other index finger and repeat the test in the same manner, if deemed appropriate. Generally demonstrate the test.  (f) Finger count: Have the person hold a hand out and touch each of the four fingers with the thumb of that hand and count 1-2-3-4, 4-3-2-1, or any other order deemed appropriate by the officer. Generally demonstrate the test.  (g) Alphabet: Have the person say the alphabet or any portion of the alphabet the officer may choose. This test may be used as part of the Romberg test.  (h) Counting: Have the person count any length of numbers, forward or backward, as the officer may require. This test may be used as part of the Romberg test.  (i) Internal Clock: Ask the person to tell you when 30 seconds has elapsed. Time the person’s estimation.  (2) Pursuant to OAR 257-025-0012 a police officer may administer any, all, or none of the field sobriety tests described in this rule as deemed appropriate in the sole discretion of the police officer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 801.272 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 801.272 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 2-1997, f. & cert. ef. 5-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 5-1996(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 12-20-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 4-1996, f. & cert. ef. 7-16-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 4-1992, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 5-1989, f. 12-27-89, cert. ef. 1-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
