



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 ELECTRICAL CODES AND STANDARDS 
 918-305-0430 
 Requests for Inspection and Notice of Results
 
 
 (1) All persons who take out an electrical permit shall request an inspection within 24 hours of: 
(a) The completion of any electrical installation intended to be covered or concealed or that is intended to be placed into service before the final electrical inspection; and 
(b) The completion of all electrical installations for the job site covered by a particular permit. 
(2) Except as provided in Section (3) of this rule, an inspecting jurisdiction, shall inspect within 48 hours of a written request for inspection unless the time for inspection is extended to a set date by mutual agreement. The 48 hours excludes Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. 
(3) The inspecting jurisdiction shall inspect an installation at a remote location within a reasonable time of the request. 
(a) For the purpose of this section, a “remote location” is: 
(A) An inspection location that is more than 60 miles one way using the most direct route, measured from the closest of the inspector’s station, inspection office or the inspecting jurisdiction’s primary offices; or 
(B) An inspection location that requires more than one hour of normal driving, one way, using the most direct route from the closest point mentioned in paragraph (A) of this subsection. 
(b) For the purposes of this section, “within a reasonable time” means a response time that takes into account the time, distance and number of inspection requests, but shall not exceed seven consecutive calendar days including the date the request was received, unless the time for inspection is extended to a set date by mutual agreement. If the seventh calendar day falls on a weekend or holiday, this is extended to include the next business day. 
(4) Reasonable procedures designed to provide actual notice of inspection results shall be used by all inspecting jurisdictions to notify the person requesting inspections, of the results of electrical inspection. “Reasonable procedures designed to provide actual notice” shall include posting at the job site and: 
(a) Nothing more, when the installation is by an owner; 
(b) Nothing more, when the installation is approved; 
(c) Notification of any deficiencies on a specific permit by: 
(A) Personal delivery to the electrical contractor or signing supervisor; 
(B) Written notification by mailing, electronic mail, or fax; or 
(C) Telephone followed by written notification. 
(d) By written confirmation of inspection approval if a permit holder requests confirmation. 
(5) If the inspection mentioned in Sections (1) and (2) of this rule involves a cover inspection, the work cannot be covered unless: 
(a) Inspection clearance is given; or 
(b) The request for inspection is in writing communicated to the inspecting jurisdiction, with notice that a cover inspection is involved, no extensions are agreed to and the maximum time for making the required inspection under Sections (1) and (2) of this rule are exceeded. For the purposes of this subsection: 
(A) Written request includes a letter, email, or fax transmittal; and 
(B) The burden of proof is on the person requesting the electrical inspection to prove that a written request was communicated. 
  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.950 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.950 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 14-2022, amend filed 09/29/2022, effective 10/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 7-2000, f. 3-15-00, cert. ef. 4-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
