



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 STATE AGENCY COORDINATION PROGRAM 
 738-130-0065 
 Coordination Procedures for Adopting Plans for Class 1 and 3 Projects 
 
 (1) The Department shall involve affected cities, counties, metropolitan planning organizations, state and federal agencies, special districts and other interested parties in the development of project plans. The Department shall include planning officials of the affected cities, counties and metropolitan planning organization on the project technical advisory committee.  (2) Goal compliance and plan compatibility shall be analyzed in conjunction with the development of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment. The environmental analysis shall identify and address relevant land use requirements in sufficient detail to support subsequent land use decisions necessary to authorize the project.  (3) Except as otherwise set forth in section (4) of this rule, the Department shall rely on affected cities and counties to make all plan amendments and zone changes necessary to achieve compliance with the statewide planning goals and compatibility with local comprehensive plans after completion of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment and before completion of the Final Environmental Impact Statement or Revised Environmental Assessment. These shall include the adoption of general and specific plan provisions necessary to address applicable statewide planning goals.  (4) The Department may complete a Final Environmental Impact Statement or Revised Environmental Assessment before the affected cities and counties make necessary plan amendments and zone changes in the following case:  (a) The Final Environmental Impact Statement or Revised Environmental Assessment identifies that the project be constructed in phases; and  (b) The Department finds:  (A) There is an immediate need to construct one or more phases of the project. Immediate need may include, but is not limited to, the facility to be improved or replaced currently exceeds or is expected to exceed within five years the level of service identified in the Oregon Aviation Plan; and  (B) The project phase to be constructed meets a transportation need independent of the overall project, is consistent with the purpose and need of the overall project as identified in the FEIS, and will benefit the surrounding transportation system even if no further phases of the project are granted land use approval; and  (C) The project does not require an exception to a statewide planning goal pursuant ORS 197.732.  (5) If a Final Environmental Impact Statement or Revised Environmental Assessment is completed pursuant to section (4) of this rule, all necessary plan amendments and zone changes associated with the particular phase of the project to be constructed shall be made by the city or county prior to constructing that phase of the project.  (6) If compatibility with a city or county comprehensive plan cannot be achieved, the Department may modify one or more project alternatives to achieve compatibility or discontinue the project.  (7) The Board or its designee shall adopt findings of compatibility with the acknowledged comprehensive plans of affected cities and counties when it grants design approval for the project. Notice of the decision shall be mailed out to all interested parties.  (8) The Department shall obtain all other land use approvals and planning permits prior to construction of the project. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035 & 835.112 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2015, f. & cert. ef. 7-28-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
