



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 13 RULES IMPLEMENTING BALLOT MEASURE 98 (2016) 
 581-013-0035 
 Monitoring and Technical Assistance 
 
 (1) To ensure the High School Graduation and College and Career Readiness Fund improves student’s progress towards graduation beginning with grade 9, graduation rates, and college and career readiness, the Oregon Department of Education will monitor the following  (a) Participating school district, charter school, or ESD’s spending to ensure that spending aligns with the school district, charter school, or ESD’s approved biennial plan; and  (b) Progress on targets identified by the school district, charter school, or ESD in the biennial plan and on multiple-measure indicators designated by the Oregon Department of Education as reflecting college and career readiness.  (2) The Oregon Department of Education will rely on formative and summative reporting on spending and progress on targets and indicators.  (3) At the end of each fiscal year the Oregon Department of Education shall identify school districts, charter schools, and ESDs that are not spending High School Graduation and College and Career Readiness Fund monies in accordance with the school district, charter school, or ESD’s approved biennial plan. The Oregon Department of Education shall partner and collaborate with the identified school districts, charter schools, and ESDs to ensure monies from the High School Graduation and College and Career Readiness Fund are being spent appropriately and, if necessary, direct the expenditure of funds or revise the school district, charter school, or ESD’s biennial plan.  (4) At the end of each biennium, the Oregon Department of Education shall identify school districts and charter schools that are not making progress on the targets identified in the school district, charter school, or ESD’s approved biennial plan or on the multiple-measure indicators designated by the Oregon Department of Education as reflecting college and career readiness. The Oregon Department of Education shall partner and collaborate with the identified school districts, charter schools, and ESDs to determine the specific interventions and technical assistance to be provided. The interventions and technical assistance must  (a) Include application of the equity lens adopted by the Oregon Department of Education; and  (b) Be individualized based on the school district, charter school, or ESD’s needs and unique student population. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Sec. 1, Ch. 1 & OL 2017 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Sec. 1, Ch. 1 & OL 2017 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 3-2017, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
