



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 NURSING FACILITIES/MEDICAID GENERALLY AND REIMBURSEMENT 
 411-070-0043 
 Pre-Admission Screening and Resident Review (PASRR) 
 
 (1) INTRODUCTION. PASRR was mandated by Congress as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 and is codified in Section 1919(e)(7) of the Social Security Act. Final regulations are contained in 42 CFR, Part 483, subparts C through E. The purpose of PASRR is to prevent the placement of individuals with mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities in a nursing facility unless their medical needs clearly indicate that they require the level of service provided by a nursing facility. Categorical determination, as described in section (2) of this rule, are groupings of individuals with mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities who may be admitted to a nursing facility without a PASRR Level II evaluation.  (2) CATEGORICAL DETERMINATIONS.  (a) Exempted hospital discharge:  (A) The individual is admitted to the nursing facility directly from a hospital after receiving acute inpatient care at the hospital; or  (B) The individual is admitted to the nursing facility directly from a hospital after receiving care as an observation-status; and  (C) The individual requires nursing facility services for the condition for which he or she received care in the hospital; and  (D) The individual’s attending physician has certified before admission to the facility that the individual is likely to require nursing facility services for 30 days or less.  (b) End of life care for terminal illness. The individual is admitted to the nursing facility to receive end of life care and the individual has a life expectancy of six months or less.  (c) Emergency situations with nursing facility admission not to exceed seven days unless authorized by AAA or APD staff.  (A) The individual requires nursing facility level of service; and  (B) The emergency is due to unscheduled absence or illness of the regular caregiver; or  (C) Nursing facility admission is the result of protective services action.  (3) PASRR includes three components.  (a) PASRR LEVEL I. PASRR Level I is a screening process that is conducted prior to nursing facility admission for all individuals applying as new admissions to a Medicaid certified nursing facility regardless of the individual's source of payment. The purpose of the screening is to identify indicators of mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities that may require further evaluation {42 CFR 483.128} or if categorical determinations, as described in section (2) of this rule, which verify that the nursing facility service is required.  (A) PASRR Level I screening is performed by AAA or APD authorized staff, private admission assessment (PAA) programs, professional medical staff working directly under the supervision of the attending physician, or by organizations designated by DHS.  (B) Documentation of PASRR Level I screening is completed using a APD-designated form.  (C) If there are no indicators of mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities or if the individual belongs to a categorically determined group, the individual may be admitted to a nursing facility subject to all other relevant rules and requirements.  (D) If PASRR Level I screening determines that an individual has indicators of mental illness and no categorical determinations are met, then the individual cannot be admitted to a nursing facility. The Level I assessor must contact AMH and request a PASRR Level II evaluation.  (E) If PASRR Level I screening determines that an individual has indicators of intellectual or developmental disabilities and no categorical determinations are met, then the individual cannot be admitted to a nursing facility. The Level I assessor must contact APD and request a PASRR Level II evaluation.  (F) Except as provided in section (3)(a)(F)(ii) of this rule, nursing facilities must not admit an individual without a completed and signed PASRR Level I screening form in the individual’s resident record.  (i) Completion of the PASRR Level I form under sections (3)(a)(A) through (3)(a)(F) of this rule does not constitute prior authorization of payment. Nursing facilities must still obtain prior authorization from the local AAA or APD office as required in OAR 411-070-0035.  (ii) A nursing facility may admit an individual without a completed and signed PASRR Level I form in the resident record provided the facility has received verbal confirmation from the Level I assessor that the screening has been completed and a copy of the PASRR Level I form will be sent to the facility as soon as is reasonably possible.  (iii) The original or a copy of the PASRR Level I form must be retained as a permanent part of the resident's clinical record and must accompany the individual if he or she transfers to another nursing facility.  (b) PASRR LEVEL II. PASRR Level II is an evaluation and determination of whether nursing facility service and specialized services are needed for an individual who has been identified through the PASRR Level I screening process with indicators of mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities who does not meet categorical determination criteria (42 CFR 483.128).  (A) Individual’s identified with indicators or mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities as a result of PASRR Level I screening are referred for PASRR Level II evaluation and determination.  (B) PASRR Level II evaluations and determinations are conducted by AMH for individuals with mental illness or by APD for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities.  (C) PASRR Level II evaluations result in a determination of an individual’s need for nursing facility services and specialized services (42 CFR 483.128-136) consistent with federal regulations established by the Social Security Act, Section 1919(e)(7)(C).  (D) Pursuant to 42 CFR 483.130(l), the written determination must include the following findings:  (i) Whether a nursing facility level of services is needed;  (ii) Whether specialized services are needed;  (iii) The placement options that are available to the individual consistent with these determinations; and  (iv) The rights of the individual to appeal the determination.  (E) The PASRR Level II evaluation report must be sent to the individual or their legal representative, the individuals attending physician, and the admitting or retaining nursing facility. In the case of an individual being discharged from the hospital, the discharging hospital must receive a copy of the PASRR evaluation report as well (42 CFR 483.128(l)(1)–(3)).  (F) Denials of nursing facility service are subject to appeal (OAR 137-003, OAR 461-025 & 42 CFR Subpart E).  (c) RESIDENT REVIEW. Resident reviews are conducted by AMH for individuals with indicators of mental illness or APD for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities who are residents of nursing facilities. Based on the findings of the resident review, a PASRR Level II may be requested. {42 CFR 483.114}.  (A) All residents of a Medicaid certified nursing facility may be referred for resident review when symptoms of mental illness develop.  (i) Resident review for individuals with indicators of mental illness that require further evaluation must be referred to the local Community Mental Health Program who shall determine eligibility for PASRR Level II evaluations.  (ii) The resident review form, part A, must be completed by the nursing facility. The resident review must be performed in conjunction with the comprehensive assessment specified by the AMH, in accordance with OAR 411-086-0060.  (B) All individuals identified as having intellectual or developmental disabilities through the PASRR Level I screening process that are admitted to a nursing facility must receive a resident review. A resident review must be conducted within seven days if the nursing facility admission is due to an emergency situation (OAR 411-070-0043(2)(c)(A)–(C)), within 20 days if the nursing facility admission is due to other categorical determinations (OAR 411-070-0043(2)(a)–(b)), and annually, or as dictated by changes in resident’s needs or desires.  (i) The resident review must be completed by APD or designee.  (ii) The resident review must be completed using forms designated by APD.  (4) SPECIALIZED SERVICES.  (a) Specialized services for individuals with mental illness are not provided in nursing facilities. Individuals with mental illness who are determined to need specialized services as a result of PASRR Level II evaluation and determination must be referred to another setting.  (b) Specialized services for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities under age 21 are equal to school services and must be based on the Individualized Education Plan.  (c) Specialized services for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities over age 21 are not provided in nursing facilities. Individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities over age 21 that are determined to need specialized services as a result of PASRR Level II evaluation and determination must be referred to another setting.  (5) RESPITE CARE. Respite care in nursing facilities for individuals with mental illness, intellectual, or developmental disabilities is approved under the following conditions:  (a) For individuals with mental illness, a nursing facility admission for respite care must be authorized by AMH and for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities, a nursing facility admission for respite care must be authorized by APD Central Office;  (b) Nursing facility respite stay must be limited to no more than a total of 56 respite days within a calendar year although APD may grant exceptions to this limit at its discretion;  (c) Nursing facility level of service must be required to meet a severe medical condition that excludes care needs due to mental illness or intellectual or developmental disabilities; and  (d) There must not be a viable community care setting available that is appropriate to meet the individual’s respite care needs as determined by section (5)(a) of this rule.  [ED. NOTE: Forms referenced are available from the agency.]  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070, 535 & 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 6-2015, f. 3-4-15, cert. ef. 3-9-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 15-2009, f. 11-30-09, cert. ef. 12-1-09 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 12-2007, f. 8-30-07, cert. ef. 9-1-07 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 9-2006, f. 1-26-06, cert. ef. 2-1-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SDSD 1-1998, f. 1-30-98, cert. ef. 2-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 3-1994, f. 4-29-94, cert. ef. 5-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 15-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-20-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 5-1989(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 4-20-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
