



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 139 LEGAL AFFAIRS (AIC) 
 291-139-0130 
 Law Library Services 
 
 (1) Operations and Procedures:  (a) Each facility will post normal law library hours of operation.  (b) Work space will be provided for inmate use in all facility law libraries.  (c) Assigned legal assistants will be provided work space and access to computer equipment for research and word processing.  (d) Commissary items, personal property, and other items that are unrelated to legal research or preparation of legal documents are not permitted in facility law libraries.  (2) Legal Research Materials: Legal research materials in either electronic or hard copy form will be maintained for inmate use in facility law libraries.  (3) Legal Assistants: Library coordinators may assign a legal assistant to help guide and assist another inmate in legal research and in the preparation of legal documents using available computerized and hard copy resources under the supervision and direction of the library coordinator in accordance with these rules.  (4) Legal Forms:  (a) Legal forms that are made available in facility law libraries for use by priority legal users will be provided upon request.  (b) Other legal forms may be made available in facility law library for use by general legal users at the discretion of the library coordinator, with the approval of the functional unit manager and Central Library Administrator.  (c) The department does not warrant or make any representation regarding the suitability of any legal form made available for inmate use in the facility law libraries for a particular legal matter or application or regarding the legal effect of any legal form. Inmates who request and use such forms do so at their own legal risk.  (d) An inmate may request and obtain access from the department to only those legal forms that are made available for inmate use in the facility law library where the inmate is housed.  (5) Word Processing and Other Equipment:  (a) The department may, in its discretion, make word processing and other equipment available for inmate use for conducting legal research, preparing legal documents, and for reviewing personal court records and discovery.  (b) When made available for inmate use, word processing and other equipment and its use must conform to the standards set forth in the department’s rules on Inmate Access to Automation (OAR 291-086), law library operations for word processing and usage, and the provisions of OAR 291-139-0190(2).  (c) The department, in its discretion, may make available for inmate use in facility law libraries software used by state and federal courts and paroling authorities for reviewing audio and video recordings of official proceedings before courts and paroling authorities. Electronic material sent into the facility by a court, paroling authority or attorney must be compatible with the software provided in the facility law library. Refer to OAR 291-139-0190(3) for storage, control, and disposition of audio and video recordings of courts and paroling authorities.  (6) Supplies: Supplies (e.g. pencil, paper, envelopes) will be available for inmate use in the facility law library only for legal research and the preparation of legal documents. Envelopes for mailing legal documents are available for purchase from the facility commissary or, at the discretion of the facility, may be made available for purchase through the facility law library. Envelopes will only be provided to indigent inmates for necessary court filings.  (7) Notary Services: Notary services for the notarizing of legal documents will be provided to inmates when necessary without charge in accordance with posted schedules. The requesting inmate must show that a notary is required by the court or paroling authority. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 13-2017, f. 8-23-17, cert. ef. 9-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
