



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 INSTITUTIONAL BUILDINGS PROGRAM 
 330-068-0050 
 Program Records 
 
 The institution shall maintain the following records concerning disbursement of Department funds:  (1) For energy audits (for buildings and occupied buildings only):  (a) O&M activities implemented by the institution in a building;  (b) Reason for not implementing O&M activities in accordance with OAR 330-068-0020(3)(b)(B).  (2) For TAS:  (a) Name and address of institution;  (b) Name and address of building, or facility other than a building;  (c) Purpose for which the building, or facility other than a building, is used;  (d) Name of utility serving building, or facility other than a building;  (e) Total electric energy use expressed in kWh/yr/sq ft;  (f) Building, or facility other than a building, size;  (g) Supporting documents and records necessary to verify actual TAS cost;  (h) Amount of Bonneville reimbursement;  (i) Copy of each completed energy audit for buildings and occupied buildings only;  (j) Copy of each completed TAS;  (k) Instances and reasons for not requiring solicitation of a qualification statement.  (l) O&M activities implemented by the institution in a facility other than a building;  (m) Reason for not implementing O&M activities in a facility other than a building, in accordance with OAR 330-068-0020(3)(c)(A).  (3) For ECM:  (a) Name and address of institution and building, or facility other than a building;  (b) Purpose for which the building, or facility other than a building, is used;  (c) Total building electric energy use expressed in kWh/yr/sq ft;  (d) Total estimated annual kilowatt hour savings;  (e) Building, or facility other than a building, size;  (f) Copy of applicable table of obligated measures, if appropriate;  (g) Date and amount of Bonneville reimbursement(s);  (h) Total cost of ECM installation;  (i) Supporting documents and records necessary to verify actual cost to the institution of all installed ECMs;  (j) Name of utility serving building, or facility other than a building;  (k) Local retail electricity rate at time of application for each building, or facility other than a building, funded;  (l) Ranking results;  (m) Data supporting kWh savings estimates;  (n) Reason for exempting ECM installation from three bid requirement in OAR 330-068-0020(4)(c)(B);  (o) Inspection report including dates of inspection and project completion.  (4) Records maintained by the institution in accordance with this program shall contain the information specified in these rules. The records shall be maintained by the institution in a form determined solely by the institution, so long as the requirements of section (5) of this rule are met. The institution shall keep all records required by these rules for three years after termination of the program. Further, the institution shall provide 90 days’ written notice to the Department prior to destruction of any such records.  (5) Program records shall be established and maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, and in conformance with applicable laws and federal regulations, including the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974. A summary of the system of records developed by Bonneville to comply with the Privacy Act shall be supplied by Bonneville. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 3-1985, f. & ef. 3-20-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 5-1984, f. & ef. 4-3-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 11-1982, f. & ef. 12-17-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
