



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 CLASSIFYING OREGON ESTUARIES 
 660-017-0025 
 Level of Development or Alteration 
 
 No development or alteration shall be more intensive than that specified in the Estuarine Resources Goal as permissible uses for comparable management units:  (1)(a) Natural estuaries shall be managed to preserve the natural resources and the dynamic natural processes. Those uses which would change, alter, or destroy the natural resources and natural processes are not permitted. Natural estuaries shall only be used for undeveloped, low intensity, water-dependent recreation; and navigation aids such as beacons and buoys; protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife, and aesthetic resources; passive restoration measures, and where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of maintaining natural estuaries, aquaculture; communication facilities; placement of low water bridges and active restoration measures. Existing man-made features may be retained, maintained, and protected where they occur in a natural estuary. Activities and uses, such as waste discharge and structural changes, are prohibited. Riprap is not an allowable use, except that it may be allowed to a very limited extent where necessary for erosion control to protect:  (A) Uses existing as of October 7, 1977;  (B) Unique natural resource and historical and archeological values; or  (C) Public facilities; and where consistent with the natural management unit description in Goal #16 (and as deemed appropriate by the permitting agency).  (b) Natural estuaries shall contain only natural management units, as provided in the Estuarine Resource Goal.  (2) Conservation estuaries shall be managed for long-term uses of renewable resources that do not require major alterations of the estuary. Permissible uses in conservation management units shall be those allowed in section (1) of this rule; active restoration measures; aquaculture; and communication facilities. Where consistent with resource capabilities of the management unit and the purposes of maintaining conservation management units, high-intensity water-dependent recreation; maintenance dredging of existing facilities; minor navigational improvements; mining and mineral extraction; water dependent uses requiring occupation of water surface area by means other than fill; bridge crossings; and riprap shall also be appropriate. Conservation estuaries may have shorelines within urban or developed areas. Dredged marinas and boat basins without jetties or channels are appropriate in conservation estuaries. Waste discharge meeting state and federal water quality standards would be acceptable. Maintained jetties and channels shall not be allowed. Conservation estuaries shall have both conservation and natural management units, as provided in the Estuarine Resource Goal.  (3)(a) Both shallow and deep draft development estuaries shall be managed to provide for navigation and other identified needs for public, commercial, and industrial water-dependent uses consistent with overall Estuarine Resources Goal requirements. Where consistent with the development management unit requirements of the Estuarine Resources Goal, other appropriate uses include riprap and those uses listed as permissible uses in development management units in the Estuarine Resources Goal. Minor and major navigational improvements are allowed in both shallow-draft and deep-draft estuaries, consistent with the requirements of the Goal. However, in shallow-draft estuaries, extension or improvements in main channels shall not be designed to exceed 22 feet in depth. Information about the location, extent, and depth of channels and jetties including planned extensions, shall be developed during the local planning process and described in the comprehensive plan;  (b) Shallow and deep-draft development estuaries shall have natural, conservation, and development management units as provided in the Estuarine Resources Goal. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCD 5-1979, f. & ef. 8-8-79 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCD 12, f. & ef. 10-14-77 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
