



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Workers' Compensation Board - Chapter 438 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 ATTORNEY FEES 
 438-015-0022 
 Attorney Fee Lien Procedures 
 
 (1) If a former attorney of a claimant alleges that the former attorney has been instrumental in obtaining additional compensation or in settling a claim, the former attorney may provide a notice of potential attorney fee lien to the insurer or the self-insured employer. Copies of such a notice shall also be simultaneously provided to the claimant and to the appropriate litigation forum, if there is a pending case before the Hearings Division or the Board.  (2) The notice of potential attorney fee lien shall include, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) A description of the former attorney’s services that support the allegation that the attorney was instrumental in obtaining additional compensation or in settling the claimant’s claim;  (b) The amount of the potential claim;  (c) The amount of the potential attorney fee lien; and  (d) A copy of an executed retainer agreement between the claimant and the former attorney.  (3) If the insurer or self-insured employer has received a notice of a potential attorney fee lien, any proposed disputed claim settlement, settlement stipulation, or claim disposition agreement shall include a provision resolving the potential attorney fee lien. Any approval of a settlement agreement that does not comply with this provision shall be void.  (4) If the notice of potential attorney fee lien is disputed, the former attorney, the claimant, the insurer, or the self-insured employer may file a petition for resolution of the lien dispute with the forum where litigation involving the claim is pending or, if there is no pending litigation, with the Hearings Division. The petition shall include copies of the notice of potential attorney fee lien and the accompanying materials that were submitted to the claimant and the insurer or the self-insured employer, as well as any other relevant documents.  (5) If a petition for resolution of a potential attorney fee lien dispute is filed, the respondent(s) shall be provided not less than seven days to respond to the petition. The former attorney shall also be provided not less than seven days to reply to the responses.  (6) The resolution of a potential attorney fee lien dispute shall be made by a final, appealable order. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.726(5) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.388(3) & 656.726(5) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 2-2007, f. 12-11-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
