



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-0675 
 American Indian/Alaska Native Student Success Plan Grant Program: Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply to OAR 581-017-0675 to 581-017-0690: 

 (1) “American Indian/ Alaska Native Student Success Plan Grant” or “Grant” means a Grant established under ORS 329.843. 

 (2) “Community-Based Organization” means a nonprofit organization that is representative of a community or significant segments of a community, and that is located within or in close proximity to the community it serves. 

 (3) “Community Voice” means that members representing the community served by the project must be involved in the design, implementation, and/or provide strategic guidance. 

 (4) “Culturally Responsive” means the implicit recognition and incorporation of the cultural knowledge and experience of students served by the plan in teaching, learning and assessment. This includes identifying and valuing: students’ cultural assets in instruction and assessment; diverse frames of reference that correspond to multifaceted cultural perspectives/experiences; and performance styles in the classroom that do not reflect dominant values of achievement or success. 

 (5) “Culturally Specific Organization” means an organization that serves a particular cultural community and is primarily staffed and led by members of that community; these organizations demonstrate intimate knowledge of lived experience of the community, including but not limited to the impact of structural and individual racism or discrimination on the community; knowledge of specific disparities or challenges documented in the community and how that influences the structure of their program or service; ability to describe the community’s cultural practices, health and safety beliefs/practices, positive cultural identity/pride/resilience, religious beliefs, etc. and how their services have been adapted to those cultural norms. 

 (6) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Education. 

 (7) “Disproportionate Discipline” means disproportionate rates of suspensions and expulsions for American Indian/ Alaska Native students compared to their white classmates who commit similar infractions and who have similar discipline histories. 

 (8) “Opportunity gap” refers to the effects and disparities the dominant, White supremacist system and culture has historically, currently, and intentionally created for groups of students where factors such as race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, English proficiency, geography, financial wealth, gender, sexuality, familial situations, and disabilities determine or constrain what opportunities the system offers and how these affect their educational aspiration, achievement, and attainment. These effects and disparities form an educational debt that the dominant educational system owes to marginalized students as well as a need to address and shift the system itself. 

 (9) “Student” means individuals who self-identify as American Indian/ Alaska Native who are enrolled in early childhood through post-secondary education. 

 (10) “Tribe” means a federally recognized tribal government in Oregon: the Burns Paiute Tribe; the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians; the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians; the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde; the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians; the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation; the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs; the Coquille Indian Tribe, and the Klamath Tribes. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 329.843 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329.843 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 50-2020, adopt filed 11/30/2020, effective 11/30/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 28-2020, temporary adopt filed 06/23/2020, effective 06/23/2020 through 12/19/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
