



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Beef Council - Chapter 605 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 COMMISSION MAKE-UP, TERMS, QUALIFICATIONS, TERM LIMITS, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE 
 605-030-0020 
 Qualifications of Commissioners 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule:  (a) A "beef producer" is a person who raises, breeds, or grows cattle or calves for beef production within the state.  (b) A "dairy producer" is a person engaged in the production, on a dairy farm, of fluid milk.  (c) A "handler" is a person actively engaged in the processing, slaughtering, handling or marketing of cattle.  (2) Members of the Oregon Beef Council will have the following qualifications, which will continue during the term of office of the member:  (a) Two members of the Council will be dairy producers;  (b) Three members of the Council will be beef producers;  (c) One member of the Council will be actively engaged in the business of feeding cattle and usually operating a feedlot;  (d) One member of the Council will be a handler;  (e) one member of the Council will be a member of the public with an active interest in the positive economic development, production and/or marketing of the commodity, but who is not associated with the production or handling of cattle or fluid milk.  (3) Each Commissioner, other than the public member, will:  (a) Be a citizen of the United States;  (b) Be a bona fide resident of Oregon;  (c) Have demonstrated through membership in organization(s) representing the production or business of the commodity, or through public service, an active interest in the development of the beef industry in Oregon;  (d) Have been, for at least five years, actively engaged in and derived a substantial portion of income from the type of production or business that the member will represent on the council. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2003 OL Ch. 604 & ORS 577 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2003 OL Ch. 604 & ORS 577 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BC 1-2004, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
