



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0221 
 Additional Oregon Rules for Handling Materials
 
 
 (1) Definitions: 

 (a) “Aerial Cableways” An aerial cableway is a cable-supported system in which the material-handling carrier is not detached from the operating span and the travel is wholly within the span. A cableway transports a load for short distances, in a single carrier traveling back and forth on a single cable, or on multiple parallel cables, a hoisting operation being combined with the transfer of the load; the operation is intermittent; 

 (b) “Aerial Tramways” An aerial tramway is a cable-supported system in which the travel of the materials handling carriers is continuous or reversible over the supports of one or more spans. On continuous tramways, a series of loaded carriers travel in one direction. On reversible tramways, one carrier travels back and forth on a cable. Bi-cable tramways have a fixed track cable, along which the carriers are hauled by a traction rope. Twin-cable tramways are similar, except that carriers run on a pair of track cables. Mono-cable tramways have a single running rope to support and move the carriers. 

 (2) General: 

 (a) Permanent aisles and passageways shall be appropriately marked; 

 (b) Pile foundations shall be designed and arranged to support maximum loads without sinking, sagging, or permitting piles to tip; 

 (c) Containers of toxic, flammable, radioactive, or irritating substances shall be properly labeled and stored as specified in other sections of the Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Code; 

 (d) Aisles and passageways shall be kept clear to provide for the free and safe movement of material handling equipment and employees. 

 (3) Disposal of Material: 

 (a) Scrap, waste material, and rubbish shall be removed at reasonable intervals from the immediate work are as the work progresses. Materials shall not be permitted to accumulate in such volume as to impede safe access to the work area; 

 (b) All solvent waste, oily rags, and flammable liquids shall be kept in fire resistant covered containers. 

 (4) Storage — Location: 

 (a) Stored material shall not obstruct lights, sprinklers, and other fire extinguishing equipment, aisles, exits, or electrical switch panels; 

 (b) Temporarily stored material that creates a hazard shall be marked by highly visible warning signs; 

 (c) In conditions of reduced visibility, reflectorized signs shall be used on temporarily stored material which creates a hazard. If conditions make reflectorized signs ineffective, the sign shall be lighted or other effective warning shall be used; 

 (d) Materials which could cause hazardous reactions shall be kept segregated in storage and marked with appropriate warning signs. 

 (5) Stacks and Piles. All material stacks and piles shall be placed on level and solid supports and shall be stable and self-supporting. 

 (6) Bricks and Blocks: 

 (a) Brick stacks shall not be more than seven feet in height. When a loose brick stack reaches a height of four feet, it shall be cross-tied and tapered back two inches in every foot of height above the four-foot level; 

 (b) When masonry blocks are stacked higher than six feet, the stack shall be cross-tied and tapered back one-half block per tier above the six-foot level. 

 (7) Lumber: 

 NOTE: OAR chapter 437, division 2/R, Special Industries, 1910.265, Sawmills, contains requirements for unitizing, stacking, and transporting lumber and wood products at manufacturing facilities and mills. 

 (a) Used lumber shall have all nails removed before stacking; 

 (b) Lumber stacks shall be made of units whose height is no more than 1-1/2 times higher than the base; 

 (c) Manual handling of lumber from stacks shall not be done from atop stacks more than one unit in height. 

 (8) Bagged Materials: 

 (a) Bagged materials shall be stacked by stepping back the layers and crosskeying the bags at least every ten bags high; 

 NOTE: This requirement does not apply where pallets effectively stabilize the stack of bagged materials. 

 (b) When bags are removed from a pile, the stability of the pile shall be maintained. 

 (9) Loose Material — Sand, Gravel, Crushed Rock, Sawdust, Etc. Undercutting of stock piles is prohibited; materials in such piles shall be kept as near as is practical to the angle or repose and present no hazard to employees. 

 (10) Corrugated and Flat Iron — Steel: 

 (a) Corrugated and flat iron shall be stacked in stable piles; 

 (b) Racks capable of supporting the imposed loads without deformation shall be used for storing steel plate on edge and shall provide positive protection against the danger to personnel from toppling or sliding plates. 

 (11) Pipe and Bar Stock: 

 (a) In removing pipe and bar stock from unsecured piles, workers shall not approach the side of the pile but shall remove it from the ends of the pile; 

 (b) Pipe or bar stock extending into passageways shall be clearly marked or padded. 

 (12) Drums, Rolls, Cylindrical Objects: 

 (a) Barrels, drums, large pipe, rolls of paper, and other cylindrical objects piled on their sides shall have the bottom row securely blocked. If separators are used between rows of the pile, blocks shall be secured at each end of the separators; 

 (b) Spacing strips shall be placed between bundles; 

 (c) Structural steel, poles, pipe, bar stock and other cylindrical materials, unless racked, shall be stacked and blocked to prevent spreading, tilting, or rolling. 

 (13) Equipment Design and Construction: 

 (a) All equipment, structures, and appurtenances used for handling or storing materials shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices and the specifications and recommendations of the manufacturer. They shall be of sufficient strength to support the loads acting on them in addition to their own dead loads. Allowances shall be made for wind, impact, erection and any special loadings that may occur. No combination of these loadings shall be permitted to cause a stress in any member that exceeds the allowable stress for the material of that member; 

 (b) Safe load capacities recommended by the manufacturers of equipment shall not be exceeded; 

 (c) Workers shall not remain or work under or near elevated loads and units of materials being moved unless they are provided with adequate protection; 

 (d) Loads suspended in slings or supported by hoists, jacks, or other devices, shall be blocked or cribbed before workers are permitted to work underneath; 

 (e) Materials shall not be dropped or thrown from an elevation where this procedure might endanger other workers; 

 NOTE: In such cases, materials should be lowered by means of proper riggings, slings, conveyors, chutes, or other safe means. 

 (f) Tag lines or guide ropes shall be provided and used whenever manual guidance is required to control swinging loads; 

 (g) Structures and devices used for loading and unloading performed units, loads, pallet boards, or trays shall be of construction and material to maintain safe support for the loads being handled on them; 

 (h) Pallet boards, and trays shall be loaded in a manner that will ensure stability of loads. 

 (14) Conveyors, General. Conveyors shall meet the applicable requirements for design, construction, inspection, testing, maintenance and operation as prescribed in ANSI B20.1-1957, Safety Code for Conveyors, Cableways, and Related Equipment. 

 (15) Controls of Conveyors: 

 (a) Means for stopping the motor or engine shall be provided at the operator’s station; 

 (b) If the operator’s station is remote from the power source, provisions for stopping the motor or engine shall be provided at the motor or engine location and at the operator’s station; 

 (c) Conveyor systems shall be equipped with an audible warning signal to be sounded immediately before starting up the conveyor; 

 NOTE: This requirement does not apply to portable single unit conveyors where other warning methods are effective. 

 (d) Emergency stop devices shall be arranged so that the conveyor cannot be started again until the actuator has been reset to running or “on” position; 

 NOTE: Automatic electrical or mechanical stopping devices should be provided on a conveyor where the equipment into which it feeds has been stopped or has been blocked so that it cannot receive additional materials. 

 (e) Where overload conditions would create a hazard to workers, overload protection shall be provided. 

 (16) Backstops, Brakes on Conveyors. Inclined conveyors, where reversing or running away presents a hazard to workers, shall be provided with anti-runaway, backstop devices, or suitable guards. 

 (17) Loading, Transfer and Discharge Points of Conveyors: 

 (a) Means to guard workers from injury by moving material shall be provided at a conveyor loading, transfer and discharge points; 

 (b) The area around all loading and unloading points shall be kept clear of obstructions. 

 (18) Conveyor Guards: 

 (a) Screw conveyors shall be guarded to prevent employee contact with turning flights; 

 (b) Where a conveyor passes over work area, aisles and thoroughfares, suitable guards shall be provided to prevent material from falling from the conveyor; 

 (c) Return sections of conveyors lower than seven feet and located over or near passageways and work areas, shall be supported by rollers or guards; 

 (d) Conveyor troughs in which moving sections of a conveyor operate shall be of ample dimensions and strength to carry broken conveyor parts; 

 (e) Conveyor drive mechanisms and power driven parts shall be guarded in accordance with the requirements in OAR chapter 437, division 2/O, Machine Guarding; 

 (f) Input conveyors for chippers, burners, furnaces, or other dangerous machines shall be fully guarded to prevent workers from falling to the conveyor. Where a part of the guard must be omitted to permit a worker to feed the conveyor, he or she shall be provided with and shall wear a life belt tied off to an effective lifeline; 

 (g) Conveyor crossovers, aisles, and passageways shall be conspicuously marked by suitable signs; 

 (h) Workers shall not cross over conveyors except where suitable bridges or walkways are provided. 

 (19) Portable Conveyors: 

 (a) Portable conveyors shall be stable at all operating ranges and shall be provided with adequate devices to prevent unintended movement; 

 (b) Portable conveyors, when powered electrically, shall be grounded as required in OAR chapter 437, division 2/S, Electrical. Where exposed to outside weather conditions, wiring, switches, and electrical connections shall be moisture and dust proof. 

 (20) Riding Conveyors Prohibited. Workers shall not be permitted to ride on any conveyor not especially designed for this purpose. 

 (21) Ramps, Skids, Rollways: 

 (a) Adequate means for slowing material being put down chutes, slides, or inclines shall be provided whenever excessive speed might create a hazard to workers; 

 (b) Where the person putting material down a chute, ramp, skid, or rollway does not have a clear view of a lower landing on which workers are employed, an adequate horn, bell or other warning device which is automatic in operation shall be provided and maintained in good condition at all times; 

 (c) The underside of all chutes, ramps, skids, rollways or landings shall be fenced off and marked with appropriate warning signs unless provided with other adequate means of protecting workers from falling material. 

 NOTE: Definitions for Aerial Cableways and Tramways are contained in OAR 437-002-0221(1). 

 (22) Cableway Carriage and Fall Rope Carriers: 

 (a) Cableway carriage and fall rope carriers shall be so constructed that no adjustments are required while cableway is in operation and that adjustments, when made, may be locked. Fall rope carriers are used to prevent the weight of the hauling rope itself causing sufficient tension to overhaul the load carrier or fall block. On spans of 600 feet or more, where the carriage works to the center of the span or beyond, slack carriers shall be provided to support the operating ropes. A button line or equivalent device shall be provided to space the carriers at approximate intervals along the span; 

 (b) Carriages shall have approved mesh guards for the operating sheaves and hand grips throughout the full length of the carriage. Footwalk and toeboards, for ready access to maintenance riggers and for inspection of the operating ropes, sheaves, beckets, and structural parts of the carriage; 

 (c) Sheaves carrying operating ropes should be as recommended by the rope manufacturer. In no case shall the pitch diameter of sheaves be less than 42 times rope diameter for 6 x 7 rope, 30 times rope diameter for 6 x 19 rope, 18 times rope diameter for 6 x 37 rope, and 21 times rope diameter for 8 x 19 rope. The sheaves shall have “V” grooves and the radius of the groove shall be 55 percent of the rope diameter. 

 (23) Operating Ropes. Operating ropes shall be of wire rope construction suitable for the requirements of the cableway. End fastenings shall develop at least 89 percent of the ultimate strength of the rope. Rope ends shall be arranged for complete and easy inspection. 

 (24) Track Cable Systems. If the design requires that track cables be carried over saddles, care must be taken to see that the saddle radius, rope lubrication and inspection provisions conform to rope manufacturer’s recommendations. Track cable connections shall be properly applied sockets using only pure zinc. Clamped ends develop only about 75 percent of the strength of the rope and therefore are not recommended. Supporting members carrying track cable tensions shall be forged steel or rolled steel carrying stress in the direction of rolling. These members shall be arranged so that loads are carried concentrically and so that no eccentric load can be applied to them or to the track cable connections by virtue of failure or non-operation of any joint baring in the track system. 

 (25) Backstay. Backstay carrying track cable tensions shall be designed to support the entire load disregarding any load carrying help from side guys. 

 (26) Side Guys. Side guys shall be so proportioned that no more than two are regarded as acting at the same time, unless equipped with an equalizing bar, sheave, or other approved device not subject to freezing temperatures. If a hydraulic or pneumatic equalizing device is used, provisions must be made to avoid or counteract the effect of loss of fluid in the system. 

 (27) Anchorages: 

 (a) Anchorages for track cable tensions shall be proportioned so that they are stable under the ultimate strength of the track cable or backstays. Steel rods, preferably embedded in concrete or block asphalt, should be used for the portion of the backstay where the anchorage tension is carried through earth. Wire rope guys shall never be used in contact with earth. Double the ultimate strength of the backstay shall be provided, together with anticorrosion protection in the form of grease, tar, etc.; 

 (b) Supporting structures, fixed towers, movable towers, etc., shall be designed to withstand full known loads plus allowance for impact with due regard for the nature of the structural elements, type of structure, and the manner of application and release of loads. Ladders, platforms and handholds shall be supplied to facilitate the inspection of towers, cableways parts attached to them, and the changing of lines and other maintenance work around them. 

 (28) Operation and Maintenance of Cableway: 

 (a) The cableway supervisor and operator shall be charged with the responsibility for allowing only authorized and properly qualified parties around the cableway rig; 

 (b) Inspection of the complete rig (track cables, carriage, operating ropes, structures, hoisting engine, electrical apparatus, and other operating parts) shall be made by the supervising safety engineer or other designated qualified person each day if the rig is operating 24 hour a day or at such other intervals as justified by lesser operating schedules for the rig. 

 NOTE: These inspections, at the discretion of the supervisor, may be made while the rig is in operation. 

 (c) During the required safety inspection, special attention shall be paid to: 

 (A) Operating ropes at the becket ends, overwraps on the drum or hoist and sheave points if pickups are made at the same point repeatedly; 

 (B) Track cable for broken wires near sockets and in the span under the pickup or unloading point and for broken wires and worn or faulty track cable socket bearings; 

 (C) Slack carriers for loose or broken parts, and to see that the carrier rollers turn freely and are well oiled; 

 (D) Electrical system, especially for faulty connection where the current might possibly go to ground through the earth rope, traveling towers, tracks, wheels, journals and tower moving apparatus. 

 (d) Operating ropes shall be re-becketed on a regular program. Re-becketing after 30 or more operating shifts is suggested. At least four rope lay lengths shall be cut off each time. Operating ropes shall be repaired or replaced in accordance with the recommendations of the wire rope manufacturer; 

 (e) The recommendations of the wire rope manufacturer shall be followed in re-socketing track cables in replacing regular strand, locked coil or other armored construction track cable; 

 (f) Hoist brakes and frictions shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Hoisting engine shall be located so that the operating ropes have the proper fleet angle to the nearest sheave which shall be oriented to lead to the center of the drum in the hoist. The hoist operator should be located so that he or she can see the hoist and working area of the cableway; 

 (g) Hook tenders serving the cableway will be permitted to “ride the hook” if the ground does not permit other access. Proper foot stands and hand holds shall be provided for two persons on the hook, fall block, safety belts and lifelines used; otherwise a manskip must be used. Signals for the operation of the rig may be given to a signalperson or to the operator. Inexperienced hook tenders shall not ride the hook alone until they have had a period of 30 working shifts with an experienced cableway hook tender; 

 (h) Loads carried by cableways shall be secured by safety hooks, or shackles, in such a manner that they cannot shift or slip while suspended by the cableway. Load hooks shall be provided with safety shields to keep the load slings on the hook. Slings must be used in pairs so that the load will not untwist the lay of a single rope; 

 (i) If the cableway is not in use for a 24-hour period or more, an inspection of the hoist shall be made before the cableway is started; 

 (j) For use in controlling cableway operations, appropriate telephone or other signal system shall be provided; 

 (k) Suitable lighting shall be provided at critical points for night operation and repairs. 

 (29) Aerial Tramway Truck Cables and Hauling Ropes: 

 (a) Track cables and hauling ropes shall be of appropriate, construction and adequate capacity for the life, type and nature of the installation; 

 (b) Tail ropes shall be provided to avoid jerky operation and possible derailment; 

 (c) Suitable adjustment should be provided to maintain the original design relation of hauling rope and tail rope tensions. The vertical component of rope tensions should always be such that the rope never tends to lift out of the support sheaves; 

 (d) Carriage hauling rope grips shall be designed to supply the necessary pulling components without damage to the rope due to slippage or excessive grip pressures. Hauling rope down pull on carriers must be kept to a minimum to prevent damage to rope and to avoid damaging the bucket hangers. 

 (30) Aerial Tramway Drives: 

 (a) Tramway drives shall be equipped with a brake on the same shaft as the drive sheave. The brake system shall be adequate for stopping and holding the load at any point. The brake shall not be used for absorbing power developed by overhauling load during normal operation. Such developed power should be dissipated electrically, hydraulically or pneumatically. The main drive brake shall be applied automatically if electric power fails; 

 (b) The driving sheave control shall be such that reduction of velocity is automatic as the bucket(s) approaches the terminal station. 

 (31) Wire Rope Sockets on Aerial Tramways. Wire rope connections shall be properly applied sockets using only pure zinc or connections which provide 100 percent of the strength of the rope. 

 (32) Aerial Tramway Tower Saddles. Tower saddles for track cables shall have ample radii to minimize bending stress and thus prolong the life of the cables. Stationary curved saddles of long radius may be employed where the cable breakover angle exceeds that possible with a rocking saddle. The radius of the saddle shall be large enough to reduce the bearing pressure to a value which will permit the cable to slide in the saddle groove. All saddles must be lubricated at regular intervals. 

 (33) Aerial Tramway Supporting Structure. Supporting structures shall be designed to withstand the full known loads plus allowances for impact with due regard for the nature of the structural elements, the type of structure, and the manner of application and release of loads. Ladders, platforms and handholds shall be provided as necessary to facilitate the inspection of the structures and tramway parts. 

 (34) Aerial Tramway Crossing Guards. Crossing guards shall be provided where the tramways cross highway, railways, or other passageways. These guards shall be of adequate construction for the type of material being handled on the tramway. 

 (35) Aerial Tramway Operation and Maintenance: 

 (a) The tramway supervisor shall be charged with the responsibility for allowing only authorized and properly qualified parties around the tramway rig; 

 (b) Inspection of the complete rig, track cables, buckets, structures, drives, electrical apparatus, and other operating parts shall be made at regular intervals. Only the tramway supervisor and personnel designated by him or her shall be allowed to “ride” the buckets and then only in performance of a specific duty such as inspection of track cables; 

 (c) Grips on continuous tramways shall be inspected and adjusted at periodic intervals. Worn parts shall be replaced promptly; 

 (d) Lubrication of track cables, hauling rope bearings, rails and guides shall be performed at regular intervals. 

 NOTE: The lubrication of the hauling rope should preferably be continuous by means of a controlled drop feed from an oil reservoir at one or both ends of the line. This lubrication should not occur as the rope enters the driving sheave, but rather as the rope leaves the drive sheave and passes over a support sheave. 

 (e) Where counterweighted spans are used, the counterweight shall hang free when the cable is fully loaded. The deflection of anchored spans shall be adjusted by take-up means provided to keep the cable tension within the proper limits. 

 (36) Aerial Tramway Traffic Control System: 

 (a) There shall be at least three control systems, as the operation of an aerial tramway is dangerous without alternate communication systems. 

 NOTE: Recommended Communications Systems: 

 (1) A bell signal code and push button stations for warning of stop, start, slow speed, high speed, and reverse. Portable linesman sets should be provided for tapping along the line; 

 (2) An all metallic aerial wire circuit telephone with instruments at certain points along the line in addition to the terminal sets; 

 (3) A second telephone circuit which may be grounded if desired. 

 (b) Condensers for static elimination and lightning arrestors should be installed to protect instruments; 

 (c) Protection should be provided against short-circuiting of the telephone and bell circuits by water running down the line supports and diverting current to the towers and station steel; 

 (d) Suitable lighting shall be provided at critical points along the line for night operation and repairs; 

 (e) When vehicles are drawn up an incline by means of a cable, the cable shall be in alignment with the central line between the vehicle tread and the hoisting drum. A substantial bumper shall be installed at the foot of the incline, or if the vehicle travels beyond this point, at the end of its runway. Workers shall not ride on the vehicle nor remain in a position behind the vehicle when it is in motion. 

 (37) Material Hoists — General Requirements: 

 (a) All material hoist towers shall be designed, built, and tested under the direction of a licensed professional engineer; 

 (b) The employer shall comply with the manufacturer’s specifications and limitations applicable to the operation of all hoists and elevators. Where manufacturer’s specifications are not available, the limitations assigned to the equipment shall be based on the determinations of a professional engineer competent in the field; 

 (c) Platforms of ample size and strength with standard railings shall be built at each level where persons work. See requirement in OAR chapter 437, division 2/D, Walking-Working Surfaces; 

 (d) Standard railings shall be placed on the open sides of runways connecting the tower to the structure with a gate provided at all openings into the tower; 

 (e) Rated load capacities, recommended operating speeds, and special hazard warnings or instructions shall be posted on cars and platforms; 

 (f) Hoisting ropes shall be installed in accordance with the wire rope manufacturer’s recommendations; 

 (g) Wire rope shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions exist: 

 (A) In hoisting ropes, six randomly distributed broken wires in one rope lay or three broken wires in one strand in one rope lay; 

 (B) Abrasion, scrubbing, flattening, or peening, causing loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outside wires; 

 (C) Evidence of any heat damage or any damage caused by contact with electrical wires; 

 (D) Reduction from nominal diameter of more than 3/64 inch for diameters up to and including 3/4 inch; 1/16 inch for diameters 7/8 to 1-1/8 inch; and 3/32 inch for diameters 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 inches. 

 (h) All welding on critically stressed members of hoisting devices shall be performed within the current standards of the American Welding Society and the welding performed by welders qualified to perform high quality welding; 

 (i) The installation of live booms on hoists is prohibited; 

 (j) Operating rules shall be established and posted at the operator’s station of the hoist. Such rules including signal system and allowable speed for various loads shall be enforced. Rules and notices shall be posted on the car frame or crossheads in a conspicuous location, including the statement “No Riders Allowed”; 

 (k) Hoisting machines, except those equipped with automotive controls, shall be operated by regularly assigned, trained operators; 

 (l) No person shall be allowed to ride on material hoists except for the purposes of inspection and maintenance. Such rides shall be made without material aboard except that necessary for the purpose of inspection and/or maintenance; 

 (m) All entrances of the hoistways shall be protected by substantial gates which shall guard the full width of the landing entrance. All hoistway entrance gates shall be painted with diagonal contrasting colors, such as black and yellow stripes; 

 (n) Gates shall be of not less than 2- by 4-inch wood or the equivalent, located no less than two feet from the hoistway line. Gates shall be no less than 42 inches high; 

 (o) Gates protecting the entrances to hoistways shall be equipped with a latching device; 

 (p) Overhead protective covering of 2-inch planking, 3/4-inch plywood, or other solid material of equivalent strength shall be provided on the top of every material hoist cage or platform; 

 (q) The operator’s station of a hoisting machine shall be provided with overhead protection equivalent to tight planking not less than two inches thick. The support for the overhead protection shall be of equal or greater strength; 

 (r) When using a hoist for long material, the material shall be securely fastened to the hoist so that no part of the load can fall or project beyond the sides of the hoist; 

 (s) Blocking, tie-downs, or other effective means to secure loads or materials, when necessary, shall be provided at all hoist platforms; 

 (t) Hoist towers may be used with or without an enclosure on all sides. However, whichever alternative is chosen, the following applicable conditions shall be met: 

 (A) When a hoist tower is enclosed, it shall be enclosed on all sides for its entire height with a screen enclosure of 1/2-inch mesh, No. 18 U.S. gauge wire or equivalent, except for landing access; 

 (B) When a hoist tower is not enclosed, the hoist platform or car shall be totally enclosed (caged) on all sides for the full height between the floor and the overhead protective covering with 1/2-inch mesh of No. 14 U.S. gauge wire or equivalent. The hoist platform enclosure shall include the required gates for loading and unloading. A six-foot high enclosure shall be provided on the unused sides of the hoist tower at ground level. 

 (u) Car arresting devices shall be installed to function in case of rope failure. 

 (38) Automotive Hoists: 

 (a) Whenever automotive hoists are elevated with a load to a position which presents a hazard to employees, the lift shall be supported by a safety device capable of preventing descent should the lift fail in any manner; 

 (b) Lifts will be operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations and those of ANSI B153.1-1990; 

 (c) Vehicles will be placed on lifts in accordance with manufacturers recommendations and in a manner to assure stability. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 2-16-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 13-1993, f. 8-20-93, cert. ef. 11-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 12-1988, f. & ef. 7-22-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 4-1979, f. 5-21-79, ef. 7-15-79 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 3-1977, f. 3-18-77, ef. 6-1-77 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 23-1976, f. 9-8-76, ef. 11-15-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 30-1974, f. 7-5-74, ef. 9-1-74 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 7-1974, f. 3-19-74, ef. 4-15-74 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
