



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Film and Video Office 
 Chapter 951 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 OREGON PRODUCTION INVESTMENT FUND PRODUCTION SPENDING REIMBURSEMENTS FOR REGIONAL PRODUCTION (R-OPIF) 
 951-007-0020 
 Payment of Reimbursements
 
 
 (1) Regardless of whether the production is otherwise a qualifying film or television production or whether the OFVO determined the production eligible, reimbursement of expenses from the rOPIF will only be paid pursuant to and upon the terms and conditions of a contract entered into between the OFVO and the filmmaker or local filmmaker pursuant to OAR 951-007-0010(5). If the filmmaker or local filmmaker does not enter into a contract with OFVO, the filmmaker or local filmmaker will not receive any reimbursement of expenses from rOPIF or OFVO. 

 (2) In addition to any other terms and conditions that the OFVO considers necessary or desirable, contracts for rOPIF reimbursements will usually include the following provisions: 

 (a) The filmmaker or local filmmaker must submit to the OFVO, after completion of the production work in Oregon, financial and other records sufficient to verify that the production satisfied the expenditure requirement for rOPIF reimbursement. 

 (A) For productions qualifying for reimbursement under 951-007-0010(1)(e) above (i.e. productions who's production office is location within the Portland metropolitan zone) those financial and other records include, but are not limited to, call sheets, production reports, location agreements, additional overtime payments, additional per diem payments, additional mileage reports and overnight accommodation receipts pertaining to the work done on an overnight location. 

 (B) For productions qualifying for reimbursement under 951-007-0010(1)(f) above (i.e. production who's production office is location outside of the Portland metropolitan zone) those financial and other records include, but are not limited to, call sheets, production reports and location agreements pertaining to the work done outside of the Portland metropolitan zone. 

 (b) Authorization for the OFVO to deduct from the rOPIF reimbursement the costs reasonably incurred by the OFVO in verifying the production expenditures in Oregon, including but not limited to, the costs incurred by OFVO in obtaining an outside accounting review, audit, or both, of the financial and other records evidencing the expenditures. The OFVO will usually submit the expenditure documentation to an outside accounting firm for a review after the OFVO has completed its review. Based on the advice of the outside accounting firm, the OFVO may require an audit of the production’s financial records. 

 (c) OFVO’s obligation to make any reimbursement of expenses is conditioned on 

 (A) Availability of funds in the rOPIF to pay for the requested reimbursement and 

 (B) Compliance by the filmmaker or local filmmaker with the terms of the contract and satisfactory verification of production spending in Oregon of at least US $75,000 for the L-OPIF program and US $1million for the OPIF program. 

 (d) The filmmaker or local filmmaker must provide to OFVO vendor lists locations outside of the Portland metropolitan zone with final accounting. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS284.368(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS284.368(4) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FVO 1-2022, amend filed 03/28/2022, effective 03/28/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FVO 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 5-2-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
