



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Geologist Examiners 
 Chapter 809 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
 809-020-0011 
 Responsibility to Employer 
 
 (1) A geologist shall avoid conflict of interest with a client/employer and shall disclose the circumstances to the client/employer if a conflict is unavoidable.  (2) A geologist shall not, during the time of the geologist’s retention or employment by a client/employer, use information developed for, or the resources of, said client/employer for private gain or in any other manner that may conflict with the client/employer’s interest without the knowledge and consent of the client/employer, except as specified in OAR 809-020-0006(8) Responsibility to Profession. In the case of a former client/employer, a geologist shall honor agreements with that former client/employer with regard to proprietary information, except as specified by OAR 809-020-0006(8).  (3) A geologist shall either engage or advise a client/employer to engage other experts or specialists if the client/employer’s interests are best served by such service.  (4) A geologist shall give due notice of withdrawal of service from a client/employer. Due notice shall be either 30 days or a time mutually agreed to by the geologist and the client/employer, whichever is less. However, a geologist may withdraw from service without due notice if:  (a) The geologist fails to receive compensation, or has reasonable cause to believe that compenstion for services performed will not be received;  (b) The geologist knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, that continued employment will result in a violation of this Code, ORS Chapter 672, the related administrative rules, or will otherwise be illegal;  (c) The geologist knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, that the client/employer is involved in illegal or fraudulent practices, or practices dangerous to the public health, and welfare and property;  (d) The geologist knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, that continued employment will result in sickness or injury to the geologist or the geologist’s dependents.  (5) A geologist shall not accept compensation concurrently from more than one client/employer on a project, unless the circumstances of payment are fully disclosed and agreed to by all financially interested parties. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 672 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GE 4-1984, f. & ef. 12-18-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
