



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 INCINERATOR REGULATIONS 
 340-230-0395 
 Municipal Waste Combustors, Small Municipal Waste Combustion Unit: Reporting 
 
 (1) Reports. The owner or operator must:  (a) Submit to the Department an initial report, semiannual reports, and annual reports, for any emission or parameter level that does not meet the limits specified in this division.  (b) Submit all reports on paper, postmarked on or before the submittal dates in OAR 340-230-0395(3)(a), (4)(a), and (6)(a). If the Department agrees, the owner or operator may submit electronic reports.  (2) The owner or operator must use OAR 340-230-0380(1) and (2) for the appropriate units of measurement for reporting data.  (3) Initial Report. The owner or operator must:  (a) Submit the initial report to the Department by June 19, 2004. The owner or operator must include the following items in the initial report.  (b) The emission levels measured on the date of the initial evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring systems for all of the following five pollutants or parameters as recorded in accordance with OAR 340-230-0390(5)(b).  (A) The 24-hour daily geometric average concentration of sulfur dioxide emissions or the 24-hour daily geometric percent reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions.  (B) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, the 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentration of nitrogen oxides emissions.  (C) The 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentration of carbon monoxide emissions.  (D) The 4-hour block arithmetic average load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.  (E) The 4-hour block arithmetic average flue gas temperature at the inlet of the particulate matter control device.  (c) The results of the initial stack tests for eight pollutants or parameters (use appropriate units as specified in OAR 340-230-0380(1) and (2)): Dioxins/furans, cadmium, lead, mercury, opacity, particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash.  (d) The test report that documents the initial stack tests including supporting calculations.  (e) The initial performance evaluation of the continuous emissions monitoring systems. Use the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of 40 CFR Part 60 in conducting the evaluation.  (f) The maximum demonstrated load of the municipal waste combustion unit and the maximum demonstrated temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter control device. Use values established during the initial stack test for dioxins/furans emissions and include supporting calculations.  (g) If the municipal waste combustion unit uses activated carbon to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, the average carbon feed rates that were recorded during the initial stack tests for dioxins/ furans and mercury emissions. Include supporting calculations as specified in OAR 340-230-0390(6)(a)(A) and (B).  (h) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor carbon dioxide instead of oxygen as a diluent gas, document the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide, as specified in OAR 340-230-0383(6).  (4) Annual Report:  (a) Submission of the annual report. The owner or operator must submit the annual report to the Department by no later than February 1 of each year that follows the calendar year in which the data was collected. This annual report is in addition to any reporting requirement contained in a Title V Operating Permit.  (b) The owner or operator must summarize data collected for all pollutants and parameters and must include the following items:  (A) The results of the annual stack test, using appropriate units, for the following pollutants: Dioxins/furans, cadmium, lead, mercury, opacity, particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash.  (B) A list of the highest average levels recorded, in the appropriate units. List those values for five pollutants or parameters:  (i) Sulfur dioxide emissions.  (ii) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, nitrogen oxides emissions.  (iii) Carbon monoxide emissions.  (iv) Load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.  (v) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter air pollution control device (4-hour block average).  (C) The highest 6-minute opacity level measured. Base the value on all 6-minute average opacity levels recorded by the continuous opacity monitoring system  (D) For municipal waste combustion units that use activated carbon for controlling dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, include four records:  (i) The average carbon feed rates recorded during the most recent dioxins/furans and mercury stack tests.  (ii) The lowest 8-hour block average carbon feed rate recorded during the year.  (iii) The total carbon purchased and delivered to the municipal waste combustion plant for each calendar quarter. If the owner or operator chooses to evaluate total carbon purchased and delivered on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the total carbon purchased and delivered for each individual municipal waste combustion unit at the plant.  (iv) The required quarterly carbon usage of the municipal waste combustion plant calculated using equation 4 or 5 in OAR 340-230-0377(4)(a) and (b). If the owner or operator chooses to evaluate required quarterly usage for carbon on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the required quarterly usage for each municipal waste combustion unit at the plant.  (E) The total number of days that the owner or operator did not obtain the minimum number of hours of data for six pollutants or parameters. Include the reasons the data was not obtained and corrective actions taken to obtain the data in the future. Include data on:  (i) Sulfur dioxide emissions.  (ii) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, nitrogen oxides emissions.  (iii) Carbon monoxide emissions.  (iv) Load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.  (v) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter air pollution control device.  (vi) Carbon feed rate.  (F) The number of hours the owner or operator has excluded data from the calculation of average levels (include the reasons for excluding it). Include data for six pollutants or parameters:  (i) Sulfur dioxide emissions.  (ii) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, nitrogen oxides emissions.  (iii) Carbon monoxide emissions.  (iv) Load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.  (v) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter air pollution control device.  (vi) Carbon feed rate.  (G) A notice of the intent to begin a reduced stack testing schedule for dioxins/furans emissions during the following calendar year if eligible for alternative scheduling under OAR 340-230-0385(5)(a) and (b).  (H) A notice of the intent to begin a reduced stack testing schedule for other pollutants during the following calendar year if eligible for alternative scheduling under OAR 340-230-0385(5)(a).  (I) A summary of any emission or parameter level that did not meet the limits specified in this subpart.  (J) A summary of the data in (a)–(d) of this section from the year preceding the reporting year that gives the Department a summary of the performance of the municipal waste combustion unit over a 2-year period.  (K) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor carbon dioxide instead of oxygen as a diluent gas, documentation of the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide, as specified in OAR 340-230-0383(6).  (L) Documentation of periods when all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are offsite for more than 12 hours.  (5) Non-compliance. The owner or operator must submit a semiannual report to the Department on any recorded emission or parameter level that does not meet the requirements specified in OAR 340-230-0375 To 0395  (6) Semi-annual report (if it is required)  (a) Submission of the semi-annual report.  (A) For data collected during the first half of a calendar year, the owner or operator must submit the semiannual report to the Department by August 1 of that year.  (B) For data collected during the second half of the calendar year, the owner or operator must submit the semiannual report to the Department by February 1 of the following year.  (b) For any of the following six pollutants or parameters that exceeded the limits specified in OAR 340-230-0375 to 0395, the owner or operator must include the calendar date they exceeded the limits, the averaged and recorded data for that date, the reasons for exceeding the limits, and the corrective actions:  (A) Concentration or percent reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions.  (B) For Class I municipal waste combustion units only, concentration of nitrogen oxides emissions.  (C) Concentration of carbon monoxide emissions.  (D) Load level of the municipal waste combustion unit.  (E) Temperature of the flue gases at the inlet of the particulate matter air pollution control device.  (F) Average 6-minute opacity level. The data obtained from the continuous opacity monitoring system are not used to determine compliance with the limit on opacity emissions.  (c) If the results of the annual stack tests show emissions above the limits specified in OAR 340-230-0380(1) and (2) for dioxins/furans, cadmium, lead, mercury, particulate matter, opacity, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash, the owner or operator must include a copy of the test report that documents the emission levels and the corrective actions.  (d) For municipal waste combustion units that apply activated carbon to control dioxins/furans or mercury emissions, the owner or operator must include the following two items:  (A) Documentation of all dates when the 8-hour block average carbon feed rate (calculated from the carbon injection system operating parameter) is less than the highest carbon feed rate established during the most recent mercury and dioxins/furans stack test. Include four items:  (i) Eight-hour average carbon feed rate.  (ii) Reasons for occurrences of low carbon feed rates.  (iii) The corrective actions taken to meet the carbon feed rate requirement.  (iv) The calendar date.  (B) Documentation of each quarter when total carbon purchased and delivered to the municipal waste combustion plant is less than the total required quarterly usage of carbon. If choosing to evaluate total carbon purchased and delivered on a municipal waste combustion unit basis, record the total carbon purchased and delivered for each individual municipal waste combustion unit at the plant. Include five items:  (i) Amount of carbon purchased and delivered to the plant.  (ii) Required quarterly usage of carbon.  (iii) Reasons for not meeting the required quarterly usage of carbon.  (iv) The corrective actions taken to meet the required quarterly usage of carbon.  (v) The calendar date.  (7) Changing reporting dates.  (a) If the Department agrees, the owner or operator may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates.  (b) See 40 CFR Part 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change the reporting date. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
