



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 240 RULES FOR AREAS WITH UNIQUE AIR QUALITY NEEDS 
 340-240-0520 
 Klamath Falls Nonattainment Area: Control of Fugitive Emissions 
 
 (1) All sawmills, plywood mills and veneer manufacturing plants, particleboard and hardboard plants, asphalt plants, rock crushers, animal feed manufacturers, and other major industrial facilities as identified by the DEQ, must prepare and implement site-specific plans for the control of fugitive emissions. The plan must be submitted to the DEQ for approval in accordance with paragraph (5) below.  (2) Fugitive emission-control plans must identify reasonable measures to prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne, and avoid the migration of material onto the public road system. Such reasonable measures may include, but are not limited to the following:  (a) Paving all roads and areas on which vehicular traffic occurs at the facility;  (b) Scheduled application of water, or other suitable chemicals on unpaved roads, log storage or sorting yards, materials stockpiles, and other surfaces which can create airborne dust. Dust suppressant material must not adversely affect water quality;  (c) Periodic sweeping or cleaning of paved roads and other areas as necessary to prevent migration of material onto the public road system;  (d) Full or partial enclosure of materials stockpiled or other best management practices in cases where application of oil, water, or chemicals are not sufficient to prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne;  (e) Installation and use of hoods, fans, and fabric filters to enclose and vent the handling of dusty materials;  (f) Adequate containment during sandblasting or other similar operations;  (g) Covering, at all times when in motion, open bodied trucks transporting materials likely to become airborne; and  (h) Procedures for the prompt removal of earth or other material from paved streets.  (3) Reasonable measures may include landscaping and using vegetation to reduce the migration of material onto public and private roadways or from becoming airborne.  (4) The facility owner or operator must supervise and control fugitive emissions and material that may become airborne caused by the activity of outside contractors delivering or removing materials at the site.  (5) For existing sources, the site-specific fugitive emissions control plan must be submitted to the DEQ by July 1, 2013. For sources that obtain their initial permit after December 14, 2012, the site-specific fugitive emission control plan must be submitted within 60 days after permit issuance. For portable sources that move into the nonattainment area after December 14, 2012, the site-specific fugitive emission control plan must be submitted with the relocation notification. Unless otherwise notified by the DEQ, the fugitive emission control plan will be approved by default within 30 days after the plan is submitted to the DEQ. The DEQ may request revisions to the plan at any time if fugitive emissions are not adequately controlled as demonstrated by visible emissions.  NOTE: This rule is included in the State of Oregon Clean Air Act Implementation Plan that EQC adopted under OAR 340-200-0040. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 & 468A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 12-11-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
