



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 RULES GOVERNING THE MANAGEMENT OF STATE-OWNED SUBMERGED AND SUBMERSIBLE LAND SUBJECT TO REMEDIATION AND HABITAT RESTORATION ACTIVITIES 
 141-145-0015 
 Types of Authorizations 
 
 (1) Access Authorization: Uses of state-owned submerged and submersible land for a term less than three (3) years, for purposes of, including but not limited to:  (a) Site monitoring;  (b) Habitat restoration;  (c) Environmental dredging;  (d) Monitored natural recovery; or  (e) Enhanced monitored natural recovery.  (2) Easement: Uses of state-owned submerged and submersible land for more than three (3) years including but not limited to:  (a) Construction and maintenance of permanent structures associated with removal or remedial activities. For the purposes of these rules, soil and sediment caps are considered a permanent structure.  (b) Site monitoring;  (c) Environmental dredging;  (d) Monitored natural recovery; or  (e) Enhanced monitored natural recovery  (3) Lease: Uses of state-owned submerged and submersible land including but not limited to construction and maintenance of a non-permanent structure or structures.  (4) Conservation Easement: Use of state-owned submerged and submersible land for which the applicant is seeking long-term use restrictions to protect its conservation value. Conservation easements may be issued in perpetuity or for a term of years.  (5) The Department may, at its discretion, authorize multiple uses by a holder under one authorization. The Department will evaluate the proposed project as a whole, and offer the authorization that accommodates the longer term use. For example, the Department may evaluate a project that includes environmental dredging for one year and monitored natural recovery for twenty years. In this example the Department would offer one easement, or lease, that would authorize both uses of state-owned submerged and submersible lands. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2014, f. 1-13-14, cert. ef. 2-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
