



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 OREGON SCENIC WATERWAYS 
 736-040-0067 
 Middle Fork John Day River Scenic Waterway 
 
 (1) Natural River Area:  (a) That segment of scenic waterway beginning at the intersection of the Middle Fork John Day River with the eastern section line of Section 11, Township 8 South, Range 29 East, Willamette Meridian, (Section 11, T 8S, R 29E, W.M.), at about river mile 11, and extending downstream approximately 11 miles to its confluence with the North Fork John Day River is classified as a Natural River Area.  (b) This Natural River Area shall be administered consistent with the standards set by OAR 736-040-0035 and 736-040-0040(1)(a)(C). In addition to these standards, all new development in resource zones (i.e. farm and forest related dwellings) shall comply with Grant County land use regulations.  (c) New structures and associated improvements shall be totally screened from view from the river by topography and/or vegetation, except as provided under OAR 736-040-0030(5), and except those minimal facilities needed for public outdoor recreation or resource protection. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists on the site, the structure or improvement may be permitted if native vegetation can be established to provide total screening of the proposed structure or improvement within a reasonable time (4–5 years). The condition of “total screening,” as used in section (1) of this rule, shall consist of adequate topography and/or density and mixture of native evergreen and deciduous vegetation to totally obscure (100%) the subject improvement.  (d) Commercial public service facilities, including resorts and motels, lodges and trailer parks which are visible from the river, shall not be permitted.  (e) New mining operations, except recreational placer mining and recreational prospecting, as those terms are defined and used in ORS 390.835, and similar improvements, shall be permitted only when they are totally screened from view from the river by topography and/or vegetation. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists to totally screen the proposed mining site, the mining operation may be permitted if native vegetation can be established to provide total screening of the proposed mining site within a reasonable time (4–5 years).  (f) New roads may be permitted only when totally screened from view from the river by topography and/or vegetation. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists to totally screen the proposed road, the road may be permitted if acceptable topography can be created or road design techniques used to totally screen the road at the time of construction or native vegetation can be established to provide total screening of the proposed road within a reasonable time (4–5 years).  (g) Where existing roads are visible from the river, major extensions, realignments, or upgrades to existing roads shall not be permitted. Necessary minor road improvements shall be substantially screened from view from the river. If inadequate topography or vegetation exists to substantially screen the road improvement, the road improvement may be permitted if acceptable topography can be created or road design techniques used to substantially screen the road at the time of construction or native vegetation can be established to provide substantial screening of the road improvement within a reasonable time (4–5 years). The condition of “substantial screening,” as used in section (1) of this rule, shall consist of adequate topography and/or density and mixture of native, evergreen and deciduous vegetation to substantially obscure (at least 75%) the subject improvement. When an existing road is regraded, no side cast into or visible from the river shall be permitted. Excess material shall be hauled to locations out of view from the river.  (h) Visible tree harvest or other vegetation management may be permitted provided that:  (A) The operation complies with the relevant Forest Practices Act rules;  (B) Harvest and management methods with low visual impact are used;  (C) The harvest or vegetation management does not degrade the riparian buffer of any waterway; and  (D) The harvest or vegetation management is designed to enhance the scenic view within a reasonable time (5–10 years). For the purposes of this paragraph, “enhance” means to benefit forest ecosystem function and vegetative health by optimizing forest stand densities and vegetative composition, fostering forest landscape diversity and promoting sustainable forest values.  (i) Improvements needed for public outdoor recreation or resource protection may be visible from the river but shall be primitive in character and designed to blend with the natural character of the landscape.  (j) Proposed utility facilities shall share existing utility corridors, minimize any ground and vegetation disturbance, and employ non-visible alternatives when reasonably possible.  (k) Whenever the standards of OAR 736-040-0035 and section (1), subsections (c) through (j) of this rule are more restrictive than the Grant County Land Use and Development Ordinance, the above Oregon Administrative Rules shall apply.  (2) Scenic River Area:  (a) That segment of scenic waterway beginning at the confluence with Crawford Creek at about river mile 71, being in the Northwest 1/4 of Section 25, Township 11 South, Range 35 East, Willamette Meridian, (NW 1/4, Section 25, T 11S, R 35E, W.M.) and extending downstream approximately 60 miles to the intersection of the Middle Fork John Day River with the eastern section line of Section 11, Township 8 South, Range 29 East, Willamette Meridian, (Section 11, T 8S, R 29E, W.M.), at about river mile 11, is classified as a Scenic River Area.  (b) This Scenic River Area shall be administered consistent with the standards set by OAR 736-040-0035 and 736-040-0040(1)(b)(B). In addition to these standards, all new development in resource zones (i.e. farm and forest related dwellings) shall comply with Grant County land use regulations.  (c) New structures and associated improvements shall be substantially screened by topography and/or native vegetation, except as provided under OAR 736-040-0030(5), and except for those minimal facilities needed for public outdoor recreation or resource protection. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists on a site, the structure or improvement may be permitted if native vegetation can be established to provide substantial screening of the proposed structure or improvement within a reasonable time (4–5 years). The condition of “substantial screening,” as used in section (2) of this rule, shall consist of adequate topography and/or density and mixture of native, evergreen and deciduous vegetation to substantially obscure (at least 75%) the viewed structure or improvement.  (d) Commercial public service facilities, including resorts and motels, lodges and trailer parks which are visible from the river, shall not be permitted.  (e) New mining operations, except recreational placer mining and recreational prospecting, as those terms are defined and used in ORS 390.835, and similar improvements, shall be permitted only when they are totally screened from view from the river by topography and/or vegetation. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists on a site, mining and similar forms of development may be permitted if native vegetation can be established to provide total screening of the affected area within a reasonable time (4–5 years). The condition of “total screening,” as used in section (2) of this rule, shall consist of adequate topography and/or density and mixture of native, evergreen and deciduous vegetation to totally obscure (100%) the subject improvement.  (f) New roads may be permitted only when totally screened from view from the river by topography and/or vegetation. If inadequate topographic or vegetative screening exists to totally screen the proposed road, the road may be permitted if acceptable topography can be created or road design techniques used to totally screen the road at the time of construction or native vegetation can be established to provide total screening of the proposed road within a reasonable time (4–5 years).  (g) Where existing roads are visible from the river, extensions, realignments, upgrades, or other improvements, shall only be permitted when substantially screened from view from the river. If inadequate topography or vegetation exists to provide substantial screening, the road improvement may be permitted if acceptable topography can be created or road design techniques used to substantially screen the road at the time of construction or native vegetation can be established to provide substantial screening of the subject improvement within a reasonable time (4–5 years). When an existing road is improved or regraded, no side cast into or visible from the river shall be permitted. Excess material shall be hauled to locations out of view from the river.  (h) Visible tree harvest or other vegetation management may be allowed provided that:  (A) The operation complies with the relevant Forest Practices Act rules;  (B) Harvest methods with low visual impact are used;  (C) The harvest or vegetation management does not degrade the riparian buffer of any waterway; and  (D) The harvest or vegetation management is designed to enhance the scenic view within a reasonable time (5–10 years). For the purposes of this paragraph, “enhance” means to benefit forest ecosystem function and vegetative health by optimizing forest stand densities and vegetative composition, fostering forest landscape diversity and promoting sustainable forest values.  (i) Improvements needed for public outdoor recreation use or resource protection may be visible from the river but shall be primitive in character and designed to blend with the natural character of the landscape.  (j) Proposed utility facilities shall share existing utility corridors, minimize any ground and vegetation disturbance, and employ non-visible alternatives when reasonably possible.  (k) Whenever the standards of OAR 736-040-0035 and section (2), subsections (c) through (j) of this rule are more restrictive than the Grant County Land Use and Development Ordinance, the above Oregon Administrative Rule shall apply. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.845(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 10-2000, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
