



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION 
 441-035-0210 
 Bad Actor Disqualification
 
 
 (1) The OIO exemption is not available if, within five years prior to the offering, any of the following apply: 

 (a) An issuer or person affiliated with the issuer has filed a registration statement which is the subject of any pending proceeding or examination under section 8 of the Securities Act of 1933 or has been the subject of any refusal order or stop order thereunder. 

 (b) An issuer or person affiliated with the issuer is subject to any pending proceeding under SEC rule 258 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or any similar section adopted under section 3(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, or to an order entered thereunder. 

 (c) An issuer or person affiliated with the issuer has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving the offer, purchase, or sale of any security, or involving the making of any false filing related to the offer or sale of any security, or any felony or misdemeanor involving dishonesty. 

 (d) An issuer or a person affiliated with the issuer is, or has been, subject to a state administrative order or judgment containing findings that the issuer or person affiliated with the issuer engaged in fraud or deceit, including but not limited to, making untrue statements of material facts and omitting to state material facts, in connection with the purchase or sale of securities. 

 (e) An issuer or person affiliated with the issuer has ever been subject to any order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction or regulatory authority (including non-U.S. regulatory authorities) preliminarily, temporarily, or permanently restraining or enjoining such person from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or involving the making of any false filing related to the offer or sale of any security. 

 (f) An issuer or a person affiliated with the issuer is the subject of a cease and desist order entered after notice and opportunity for hearing by the Director, a securities agency or administrator of another state or Canadian province or territory, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission that contains allegations of securities fraud or misrepresentations in connection with investment offerings. 

 (g) An issuer or a person affiliated with the issuer has been barred from using any exemption under the Oregon Securities Law pursuant to an order of the Director. 

 (2) The disqualification under this rule may not apply if: 

 (a) The Director determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that an exemption be unavailable; and 

 (b) The issuer establishes that they did not know, and in the exercise of reasonable care could not have known, that a disqualification existed under this rule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 59.035 & 17 CFR § 230.147A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 59.035 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FSR 12-2017, amend filed 12/28/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 1-2015, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
