



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0510 
 Pick Three Pools 
 
 (1) The Pick Three requires selection of the first-place finisher in each of three specified contests.  (2) The net Pick Three pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose selection finished first in each of the three contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those who selected the first-place finisher in any two of the three contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those who selected the first-place finisher in any one of the three contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) The entire pool shall be refunded on Pick Three wagers for those contests.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first in any of the three contests involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the Pick Three pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (b) Contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Pick Three pool shall be distributed as a single price pool with each winning wager receiving an equal share of the profit.  (4) Should a betting interest in any of the three Pick Three contests be scratched, the actual favorite, as evidenced by total amounts wagered in the Win pool at the close of wagering on that contest, shall be substituted for the scratched betting interest for all purposes, including pool calculations. In the event that the Win pool total for two or more favorites is identical, the substitute selection shall be the betting interest with the lowest program number. The totalizator shall produce reports showing each of the wagering combinations with substituted betting interests which became winners as a result of the substitution, in addition to the normal winning combination.  (5) If all three Pick Three contests are cancelled or declared “no contest,” the entire pool shall be refunded on Pick Three wagers for those contests.  (6) If one or two of the Pick Three contests are cancelled or declared “no contest,” the Pick Three pool will remain valid and shall be distributed in accordance with subsection 2 of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
