



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 109 RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING USE OF PARTICLE ACCELERATORS 
 333-109-0015 
 Operating Procedures 
 
 (1) Particle accelerators, when not in operation must be secured to prevent unauthorized use.  (2) Written operating procedures pertaining to radiation safety must be established for each accelerator facility by the radiation safety officer.  (3) Written emergency procedures pertaining to radiation safety must be established by the radiation safety officer. These must list the telephone number(s) of the radiation safety officer and must include the following actions to be taken in case of a known, or suspected, accident involving radiation exposures:  (a) Notifying the radiation safety officer; and  (b) Arranging for medical examination.  (4) Personnel must not expose any part of their body to the radiation beam.  (5) Accelerator must not be left unattended while energized unless access to radiation areas or high radiation areas is physically prevented.  (6) All safety and warning devices, including interlocks, must be checked for proper operation at intervals not to exceed three months. Results of such tests must be maintained at the accelerator facility for inspection by the Authority.  (7) Records of personnel monitoring results and safety device tests must be maintained for inspection by the Authority.  (8) An appropriate radiation monitor must be used within an accelerator target room and other high radiation areas. This may be:  (a) An area monitor with an easily observable indicator that warns of radiation levels above a predetermined limit in accessible areas; and/or  (b) A personal radiation monitor of the "chirpie" type carried into the room; and/or  (c) A portable survey instrument carried into the room.  (9) Personal radiation dosimeters that measure the expected radiations and are of sufficient range to be useful under normal and accident conditions shall be worn by all persons designated by the radiation safety officer.  (10) Records of all radiation protection surveys, inspections and maintenance performed on the accelerator and related components must be kept current and on file at each accelerator facility, and maintained for inspection by the Authority.  (11) The safety interlock system must not be used to turn off the accelerator beam except in an emergency.  (12) Electrical circuit diagrams of the accelerator and the associated safety interlock systems must be kept current and maintained for inspection by the Authority and must be available to the operator at each accelerator facility.  (13) If, for any reason, it is necessary to intentionally bypass a safety interlock or interlocks, such action must be:  (a) Authorized by the radiation safety committee or radiation safety officer;  (b) Recorded in a permanent log and a notice posted at the accelerator control console; and  (c) Terminated as soon as possible.  (14) A copy of the current operating and the emergency procedures must be maintained at the accelerator control panel. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 1-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 4-1985, f. & ef. 3-20-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
