



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-0045 
 Wild Warmwater Game Fish Management Policy 
 
 Management options for protection and enhancement of wild stocks are contained in OAR 635-007-0525. In addition, the following guidelines by management option apply only to management of nonendemic warmwater game fishes:  (1) Option (1)(a) of OAR 635-007-0525 — Manage for wild fish:  (a) The intent of management under this option is to insure that the adaptability of wild stocks is not diminished by hatchery stocks;  (b) Wild stocks will be used to establish populations. Donor stocks that show life history or behavioral characteristics believed to improve survival and growth of populations in the basin must be used;  (c) Any nonlocal stock purposed as a donor will be reviewed for:  (A) Life history characteristics in comparison to local stocks;  (B) Goals of the introduction;  (C) Estimated costs; and  (D) Possible consequences on the fish management objectives for all species in the basin.  (d) If production of wild fish in the basin is believed to be limited by some existing habitat condition, attempts to increase abundance of fish will consist of improvements to habitat;  (e) If production of wild fish in the basin is believed to be lower than the present habitat can support, short-term stocking of fry, fingerling, or adults may be used in an attempt to achieve maximum sustained production. Under these circumstances, the stocking program will not exceed five years. During the stocking period, an evaluation procedure will be established to determine the effectiveness of the stocking program. Donor stocks must meet the criteria listed in subsections (1)(b) and (c) of this rule.  (2) Option (1)(b) of OAR 635-007-0525 — Manage for wild and hatchery fish:  (a) The intent of management under this option is to insure that the range of biological characteristics, adaptability, and production of the wild stock are not reduced by interactions with hatchery fish;  (b) Habitat protection and enhancement are essential to maintaining production for wild fish in the system;  (c) Hatchery fish may be used on a routine, ongoing basis in order to increase the abundance of adults over the number that would be present under reliance on natural production alone;  (d) Hatchery programs will use fish believed adapted to survival, growth, and adaptability in the basin. The best adapted of acceptable donor stocks will be used. Nonlocal stocks will meet the criteria of guideline in subsection (1)(c) of this rule;  (e) If beneficial alteration of genetic adaptability of the wild population is desired, hatchery fish will be released in sufficient numbers and over a sufficient time period to substantially alter life history characteristics;  (f) Special restrictions may be imposed to protect hatchery stocks released for the purpose of breeding with stocks currently present.  (3) Option (1)(c) of OAR 635-007-0525 — Manage for hatchery fish:  (a) The intent of management under this option is to:  (A) Achieve the maximum possible benefits from production of hatchery fish; and  (B) Maintain natural production at the highest level possible without restricting the hatchery program.  (b) Habitat protection and enhancement are essential to maintaining the productive capacity of wild fish in the system;  (c) The hatchery program must use a well adapted local or other stock believed able to survive and grow in the basin as a basis for developing a hatchery population that will achieve goals of the hatchery program. Nonlocal stocks will meet the criteria of subsection (1)(c) of this rule;  (d) The magnitude of the hatchery program will not be limited to regulating the effects on wild stocks of the same species within the basin. The magnitude of the hatchery program may be limited to regulating the effects on other fish species in the basin, depending on management objectives for those species. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 77-1987, f. & ef. 9-15-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
