



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0500 
 Double Pools 
 
 (1) The Double requires selection of the first-place finisher in each of two specified contests.  (2) The net Double pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose selection finished first in each of the two contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a profit split to those who selected the first-place finisher in either of the two contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those who selected the one covered first-place finisher in either contest; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a single price pool to those whose selection finished second in each of the two contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) The entire pool shall be refunded on Double wagers for those contests.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first in either of the two contests involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the Double pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (b) Contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Double pool shall be distributed as a profit split if there is more than one covered winning combination.  (4) Should a betting interest in the first half of the Double be scratched prior to the first Double contest being declared official, all money wagered on combinations including the scratched betting interest shall be deducted from the Double pool and refunded.  (5) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Double be scratched prior to the close of wagering on the first Double contest, all money wagered on combinations including the scratched betting interest shall be deducted from the Double pool and refunded.  (6) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Double be scratched after the close of wagering on the first Double contest, all wagers combining the winner of the first contest with the scratched betting interest in the second contest shall be allocated a consolation payoff. In calculating the consolation payoff the net Double pool shall be divided by the total amount wagered on the winner of the first contest and an unbroken consolation price obtained. The broken consolation price is multiplied by the dollar value of wagers on the winner of the first contest combined with the scratched betting interest to obtain the consolation payoff. Breakage is not declared in this calculation. The consolation payoff is deducted from the net Double pool before calculation and distribution of the winning Double payoff. Dead heats including separate betting interests in the first contest shall result in a consolation payoff calculated as a profit split.  (7) If either of the Double contests are cancelled prior to the first Double contest, or the first Double contest is declared “no contest,” the entire Double pool shall be refunded on Double wagers for those contests.  (8) If the second Double contest is cancelled or declared “no contest” after the conclusion of the first Double contest, the net Double pool shall be distributed as a single price pool to wagers selecting the winner of the first Double contest. In the event of a dead heat involving separate betting interests, the net Double pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (9) Before post time of the second half of the “Daily Double,” the “payoff” on each combination coupled with the winner of the first half of the “Daily Double” shall be announced to the public. Table 5, Table 6. [Tables not included. See ED. NOTE.]  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
