



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Psychiatric Security Review Board 
 Chapter 859 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 CONDITIONAL RELEASE OF ADULTS 
 859-070-0005 
 Court Conditional Release
 
 
 (1) If the court finds the person presents a substantial danger to others but may be adequately controlled with supervision and treatment if conditionally released, and that necessary supervision and treatment are available, the court, instead of ordering the person committed to a state hospital, may order the person conditionally released. 

 (2) To make the finding above, the court must: 

 (a) Order a consultation to the local mental health program designated by the Board to determine whether the necessary supervision and treatment for the person are available in the community and appropriate for the person. 

 (A) A consultation must be ordered by the court when the person’s most serious offense in the charging instrument is a Class C felony. 

 (B) A consultation may be ordered by the court when the person’s most serious offense in the charging instrument is a Class A or Class B felony. 

 (b) Order a community evaluation if the local mental health program determines through the consultation that the necessary supervision and treatment for the person are available in the community and appropriate for the person. 

 (3) All orders conditionally releasing a person must include: 

 (a) The agency designated by the Board to supervise the person upon release; 

 (b) The address where the person shall reside; and 

 (c) Those conditions as outlined on the Summary of Conditional Release Plan template available on the PSRB’s website, including, but not limited to mandated treatment type and frequency and other special conditions that the court finds are in the best interests of justice, the protection of society and the welfare of the person. 

 (4) The court must notify the Board within one judicial day of a conditional release order and provide to the Board an electronic copy of the conditional release order. 

 (5) The Board shall hold an initial review hearing within 90 days from the date an individual is ordered to be placed on a court conditional release. The Board may issue an order continuing the court order of conditional release when all the elements of the conditional release plan are in accordance with procedures set forth in Division 70. 

 (6) The Board may issue a modification of the court order of conditional release when, upon review, elements of the plan have changed, have not been set out in sufficient detail or additional conditions are needed. 

 (7) The Board may issue an order of revocation in accordance with provisions set forth in Division 80. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 161.387 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 161.327 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-2022, amend filed 01/13/2022, effective 01/13/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-1985, f. 1-3-85, ef. 1-15-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
