



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 POLE LINES, BURIED CABLES, PIPE LINES, SIGNS, MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS 
 734-055-0045 
 Removal, Relocation or Repair 
 
 (1) The permit is issued pursuant to the law of the State of Oregon which authorizes the Commission to subsequently require applicant to remove, relocate or repair the facility covered by the permit at the sole cost of applicant.  (2) Upon receiving written notice from the Engineer to remove, relocate or repair the said facility, applicant shall within 30 days or within the time frame contained in the notice, provide to the Engineer its time estimated requirements for accomplishing the directed action.  (3) The Engineer, after applicant has provided its estimated time requirement for removal, relocation or repair of said facility, may schedule a preconstruction meeting with all applicants and affected contractors to coordinate the requested activity.  (4) The Engineer in a second notice shall direct applicant, within a specified time frame and consistent with a coordination plan, to complete the removal, relocation or repair of said facility. The time frame outlined in the notice shall take into consideration the applicant’s estimated time requirements to accomplish the directed action. Such removal, relocation, or repair shall be at applicant’s sole cost in accordance with said second notice and instructions received from the Engineer. Before commencing said removal, relocation or repair, applicant shall furnish such insurance and post such bond as the Engineer may consider necessary at that time in the manner provided for in OAR 734-055-0035(1) and (2).  (5) Should applicant fail to remove, relocate or repair the facility as provided in section (4) of this rule, the DM may remove, relocate or repair same and submit a statement of total costs for this work to applicant. Applicant upon receiving said statement will immediately, or within a period of time agreed upon between applicant and Engineer, pay to the Department the full amount of said removal, relocation or repair costs.  (6) If the section of highway in which applicant is required by the Engineer to remove, relocate or repair a facility is or will be under construction or reconstruction or improvement under a contract entered into between the Department and an independent contractor and applicant’s failure to remove, relocate or repair said pole line, buried cable, pipe line, sign or miscellaneous facility within the time specified in section (4) of this rule, or such other time as may be specified by the Engineer, results in payment by Department to its contractor of any claim for extra compensation for any work under said contract, applicant shall be liable to the Department for payment of the amount paid to Department’s contractor as a direct result of applicants failure to comply with the time requirements of the Engineer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 374 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 2HD 2-1981, f. & ef. 2-25-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HC 1176, f. 9-24-68 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
