



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 59 FERTILIZERS, AGRICULTURAL MINERALS, AND LIMES 
 603-059-0060 
 Definition of Labeling Terms 
 
 (1) For labels and labeling, the State Department of Agriculture uses the following definitions:  (a) Organic. Organic materials are the remains, residues, or waste products of any organism, have a carbon base, are 100% natural, and are allowed as inputs in organic crop production under the USDA National Organic Program. If mixed with synthetic materials, such as processing aids for extraction, stabilization, or isolation, the combined material is no longer considered organic. An example of an organic material would be ground kelp meal to which nothing has been added. An example of a non-organic material would be kelp extract, processed with potassium hydroxide, as the added potassium hydroxide is not an organic material.  (b) Natural. Natural materials exist in nature and have been altered from their original structure only by physical manipulation (e.g. ground, screened, or pelletized), and may or may not have a carbon base. Natural materials are allowed as inputs in organic crop production under the USDA National Organic Program and must not be mixed with synthetic materials. Examples of non-carbon based natural materials would be mined limestone and mined potassium sulfate, to which nothing has been added.  (c) Organic-based. Organic-based materials are a mixed product in which more than half of the materials are organic. If it is an organic-based fertilizer, more than half of the sum of the guaranteed primary nutrient percentages must be derived from organic materials. If it is an organic-based agricultural mineral, more than half of the sum of the guaranteed nutrient percentages must be derived from organic materials. If it is an agricultural amendment, more than half of the total materials (by weight) must be derived from organic materials.  (d) Natural-based. Natural-based materials are a mixed product in which more than half of the materials are natural. If it is a natural-based fertilizer, more than half of the sum of the guaranteed primary nutrient percentages must be derived from natural materials. If it is a natural-based agricultural mineral, more than half of the sum of the guaranteed nutrient percentages must be derived from natural materials. If it is an agricultural amendment, more than half of the total materials (by weight) must be derived from natural materials.  (e) Natural and Organic. Products containing both natural and organic ingredients may be listed as “natural and organic.” Product labels may list the proportions of these materials, i.e., “95% organic.” As an example a product made of 30% blood meal, 20% bone meal, 20% kelp meal, and 30% greensand could be described as “70% organic.”  (f) Organic Input. A product in which all ingredients comply with the requirements for producing organic agricultural products under the USDA National Organic Program Final Rule, 7 CFR Part 205.  (g) Synthetic. A substance that is formulated or manufactured by a chemical process or by a process that chemically changes a substance extracted from naturally occurring plant, animal, or mineral sources, except that such term shall not apply to substances created by naturally occurring biological processes.  (h) Biotic or Bioactive. A product with a guaranteed content of microbiological inoculum.  (i) No Phosphate Fertilizer. Fertilizer products with less than 0.5% available phosphate (P2O5). This definition also applies to other acceptable phrases used as descriptors which include, but are not limited to, “phosphate free” and “phosphorus free”.  (j) Low Phosphate Fertilizer. Fertilizer products with available phosphate levels (P2O5) equal to, or greater than, 0.5%, but less than 1%.  (k) Non-toxic. Materials incapable of causing harmful effects to living organisms. As determined by the department, the claim must be adequately substantiated by supporting data. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & ORS 633 as amended by Ch. 514 OL 2015 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  633 as amended by Ch. 514 OL Stats 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 15-2016, f. 6-30-16, cert. ef. 7-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
