



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 157 FOOD SERVICE LICENSING, INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES 
 333-157-0073 
 Temporary Restaurant Definitions 
 
 (1) “Intermittent temporary restaurant” means an establishment:  (a) That operates temporarily at a specific location in connection with multiple public gatherings, entertainment events, food product promotions or other events, at least two of which are arranged for by different oversight organizations; and  (b) Where food is prepared or served for consumption by the public.  (2) “Operational review” means the examination of a plan of operation for an establishment in order to ensure that the proposed operation conforms with applicable sanitation standards.  (3) “Oversight organization” means an entity responsible for organizing, managing or otherwise arranging for a public gathering, entertainment event, food product promotion or other event, including but not limited to ensuring the availability of water, sewer and sanitation services.  (4) “Seasonal temporary restaurant” means an establishment:  (a) That operates at a specific location in connection with multiple public gatherings, entertainment events, food product promotions or other events that are arranged for by the same oversight organization; and  (b) Where food is prepared or served for consumption by the public.  (5) “Single-event temporary restaurant” means an establishment:  (a) That operates in connection with a single public gathering, entertainment event, food product promotion or other event; and  (b) Where food is prepared or served for consumption by the public.  (6) “Substantial menu alteration” means a change of menu that increases the complexity of the menu of a seasonal temporary restaurant and intermittent temporary restaurant operation. For purposes of these rules, an increase in complexity occurs when the menu moves from:  (a) Service of ready-to-eat foods that requires no further preparation or cooking; to  (b) Foods that are prepared or cooked on-site and served directly to the consumer that day; to  (c) Foods that must be prepared in the operation in advance and reheated or cooled over the course of multiple days of operation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 624.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 624.038, 624.041, 624.082 & 624.084 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 3-2012, f. 2-29-12, cert. ef. 3-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
