



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0313 
 Additional Oregon Rules for Sawmills 
 
 (1) Application. This section includes safety requirements for sawmill operations including, but not limited to, log and lumber handling, sawing, trimming, and planing; waste disposal; operation of dry kilns; finishing; shipping; storage; yard and yard equipment; and for power tools and affiliated equipment used in connection with such operations.  (2) Conveyors. Feed conveyors for chippers, hogs, burners, and other dangerous machines shall be fully guarded to prevent workers from falling into the conveyor. Where a part of the guard must be omitted to permit workers to feed the conveyor, they shall be provided with and shall wear a safety belt and lanyard tied off to a life line.  (3) Unloading Equipment:  (a) The tile and overarm grapple of all hydraulically operated log handling machines shall be equipped with a means for preventing the release of the tilt and/or grapple devices in case of a failure in the hydraulic system;  (b) A-frames and similar log unloading devices shall be guyed and braced to provide stability and prevent tipping.  NOTE: Pond Boats. Small pond boats which are not designed to transport more than one person are exempt from the life-ring requirement.  (4) Transfers and Tracks:  (a) Guardrails and handrails shall be installed on and about transfers and transfer tracks wherever necessary for the safety or workers;  (b) Cars shall not be moved while workers are in the bight of tow lines;  (c) Tracks shall be clear of obstructions before rail cars are moved.  (5) Green Chains and Sorting Tables:  (a) Green chains and similar equipment shall be provided with a stopping device which is readily accessible to one or more persons working on the chain;  (b) A toe board not less than six inches in height of nominal two by six inch material shall be installed on the vertical face of all green chain and sorting tables;  (c) The flow of lumber or other materials on sorting tables and green chain shall be regulated as evenly as possible.  (d) Rollers or other devices shall be provided for removing heavy material from the chain or table.  (e) Workers shall not cross over operating conveyors, rolls, or belts unless elevated cross-overs are provided for this purpose.  (6) Transfer Rolls:  (a) Power driven rolls shall be operated in a manner to prevent end collisions;  (b) The space between live rolls, for a distance of at least one roll on either side of cross-overs or walkways, shall be filled in with substantial material;  (c) Live roll sprockets, chains, gears and drive shafts shall be guarded wherever exposed to contact;  (d) Live rolls shall be replaced when a hole (sufficient to impair its strength, or catch clothing) has developed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 3-1996, f. & cert. ef. 7-22-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 7-1993, f. 6-8-93, cert. ef. 8-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
