



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 32 COMMUNITY TREATMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES 
 309-032-0311 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Co-Occurring Disorders” (COD) means the existence of at least one diagnosis of a substance use disorder and one diagnosis of a serious mental illness.  (2) “Community Mental Health Program” (CMHP) means an entity that is responsible for planning and delivery of services for individuals with substance use or mental illness diagnoses operated in a specific geographic area of the state under an intergovernmental agreement or a direct contract with the Health Systems Division (Division).  (3) “Division” means the Health Systems Division (Division) of the Oregon Health Authority (OHA).  (4) “Eligible Individual” means an individual who, as defined in these rules:  (a) Is homeless or at imminent risk of becoming homeless; and  (b) Has or is reasonably assumed to have a serious mental illness;  (c) May also have a co-occurring substance use disorder.  (5) “Enrolled” means an eligible individual who:  (a) Receives services supported at least partially with PATH funds; and  (b) Has an individual service record that indicates enrollment in the PATH program.  (6) “Homeless Individual” means an individual who:  (a) Lacks housing without regard to whether the individual is a member of a family and whose primary residence during the night is a supervised public or private facility that provides temporary living accommodations; or  (b) Is a resident in transitional housing that carries time limits.  (7) “Individual” means an individual potentially eligible for or who has been enrolled to receive services described in these rules.  (8) “Individual Service and Support Plan” (ISSP) means a comprehensive plan for services and supports provided to or coordinated for an eligible individual that is reflective of the intended outcomes of service.  (9) “Imminent Risk of Homelessness” means that an individual is:  (a) Living in a doubled-up living arrangement where the individual’s name is not on the lease;  (b) Living in a condemned building without a place to move;  (c) In arrears in their rent or utility payments;  (d) Subject to a potential eviction notice without a place to move; or  (e) Being discharged from a health care or criminal justice institution without a place to live.  (10) “Individual Service Record” means the written or electronic documentation regarding an enrolled individual that summarizes the services and supports provided from point of entry to service conclusion.  (11) “Literally Homeless Individual” means an individual who lacks housing without regard to whether the individual is a member of a family, including an individual whose primary residence during the night is a supervised public or private facility that provides temporary living accommodations.  (12) “Local Mental Health Authority” (LMHA) means one of the following entities:  (a) The Board of County Commissioners of one or more counties that establishes or operates a CMHP;  (b) The tribal council of a federally recognized tribe of Native Americans that elects to enter into an agreement to provide mental health services; or  (c) A regional LMHA comprised of two or more boards of county commissioners.  (13) “Outreach” means the process of bringing individuals into treatment who do not access traditional services.  (14) “Person with serious mental illness” has the meaning given that term in OAR 309-036-0105.  (15) “Projects for Assistance in Transition from Homelessness” (PATH) means the Formula Grants, 42 U.S.C. 290cc-21 to 290-cc-35.  (16) “Qualified Mental Health Professional” (QMHP) means any person who meets one of the following minimum qualifications as authorized by the LMHA or designee:  (a) A Licensed Medical Practitioner;  (b) A graduate degree in psychology, social work, or recreational, art, or music therapy;  (c) A graduate degree in a behavioral science field;  (d) A bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and licensed by the State or Oregon; or  (e) A bachelor’s degree in nursing and licensed by the State of Oregon.  (17) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.610 – 430 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 8-2017, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 2-9-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 9-2011(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 11-22-11 thru 5-18-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 7-2011, f. & cert. ef. 9-26-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
