



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 255 DIESEL EMISSIONS MITIGATION GRANT PROGRAM 
 340-255-0070 
 Grant Application Schedules and Grant Awards 
 
 (1) DEQ may reduce the maximum eligible amount of grant awards at any time at DEQ’s discretion based on availability of funding. DEQ intends to award the maximum eligible amount of grant awards, unless it has announced before a grant application deadline that it may award grants at a lower level. 

 (2) DEQ will announce annual schedules to submit applications for grants beginning in 2021 and ending when all funds available to Oregon under the Environmental Mitigation Trust Agreement have been spent. 

 (a) Annual grant application schedules will be announced in the first quarter of each applicable calendar year. 

 (b) Application schedules will allow for grant applications to be submitted, reviewed and awarded up to four times per year, as determined by DEQ, to achieve the spending goals under section (3). 

 (c) DEQ will notify applicants of funding decisions based on annual schedules and will publish notification of grant awards as required by the Environmental Mitigation Trust Agreement. 

 (3) DEQ will announce annual Diesel Emissions Mitigation Grant Program funding availability to make approximately 1/5 of Oregon’s allocated share of funds available, under the Environmental Mitigation Trust Agreement, for diesel emission reduction grants per year for at least five years beginning in 2021. Funds that are not reserved for authorized administrative expenses, used as authorized to satisfy Oregon’s non-federal match under the DERA grant program, or allocated to grants under this division will be made available for additional diesel emission reduction grants under this division. 

 (4) DEQ will conduct a review of the Diesel Emission Mitigation Grant Program two years after implementation. The review will include an assessment of emissions reductions, program investments addressing diesel equipment, potential adjustments to improve performance, and will provide an opportunity for community involvement. 

 (5) DEQ will allocate all available grant funds under this division towards eligible mitigation actions and eligible mitigation action administrative expenditures. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468A.805 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.805 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 2-2021, adopt filed 01/21/2021, effective 01/21/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
