



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
 660-012-0020 
 Elements of Transportation System Plans 
 
 (1)A TSP shall establish a coordinated network of transportation facilities adequate to serve state, regional and local transportation needs.  (2) The TSP shall include the following elements:  (a) A determination of transportation needs as provided in OAR 660-012-0030;  (b) A road plan for a system of arterials and collectors and standards for the layout of local streets and other important non-collector street connections. Functional classifications of roads in regional and local TSP's shall be consistent with functional classifications of roads in state and regional TSP's and shall provide for continuity between adjacent jurisdictions. The standards for the layout of local streets shall provide for safe and convenient bike and pedestrian circulation necessary to carry out OAR 660-012-0045(3)(b). New connections to arterials and state highways shall be consistent with designated access management categories. The intent of this requirement is to provide guidance on the spacing of future extensions and connections along existing and future streets which are needed to provide reasonably direct routes for bicycle and pedestrian travel. The standards for the layout of local streets shall address:  (A) Extensions of existing streets;  (B) Connections to existing or planned streets, including arterials and collectors; and  (C) Connections to neighborhood destinations.  (c) A public transportation plan which:  (A) Describes public transportation services for the transportation disadvantaged and identifies service inadequacies;  (B) Describes intercity bus and passenger rail service and identifies the location of terminals;  (C) For areas within an urban growth boundary which have public transit service, identifies existing and planned transit trunk routes, exclusive transit ways, terminals and major transfer stations, major transit stops, and park-and-ride stations. Designation of stop or station locations may allow for minor adjustments in the location of stops to provide for efficient transit or traffic operation or to provide convenient pedestrian access to adjacent or nearby uses.  (D) For areas within an urban area containing a population greater than 25,000 persons, not currently served by transit, evaluates the feasibility of developing a public transit system at buildout. Where a transit system is determined to be feasible, the plan shall meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(c)(C) of this rule.  (d) A bicycle and pedestrian plan for a network of bicycle and pedestrian routes throughout the planning area. The network and list of facility improvements shall be consistent with the requirements of ORS 366.514;  (e) An air, rail, water and pipeline transportation plan which identifies where public use airports, mainline and branchline railroads and railroad facilities, port facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals are located or planned within the planning area. For airports, the planning area shall include all areas within airport imaginary surfaces and other areas covered by state or federal regulations;  (f) For areas within an urban area containing a population greater than 25,000 persons a plan for transportation system management and demand management;  (g) A parking plan in MPO areas as provided in OAR 660-012-0045(5)(c);  (h) Policies and land use regulations for implementing the TSP as provided in OAR 660-012-0045;  (i) For areas within an urban growth boundary containing a population greater than 2500 persons, a transportation financing program as provided in OAR 660-012-0040.  (3) Each element identified in subsections (2)(b)–(d) of this rule shall contain:  (a) An inventory and general assessment of existing and committed transportation facilities and services by function, type, capacity and condition:  (A) The transportation capacity analysis shall include information on:  (i) The capacities of existing and committed facilities;  (ii) The degree to which those capacities have been reached or surpassed on existing facilities; and  (iii) The assumptions upon which these capacities are based.  (B) For state and regional facilities, the transportation capacity analysis shall be consistent with standards of facility performance considered acceptable by the affected state or regional transportation agency;  (C) The transportation facility condition analysis shall describe the general physical and operational condition of each transportation facility (e.g., very good, good, fair, poor, very poor).  (b) A system of planned transportation facilities, services and major improvements. The system shall include a description of the type or functional classification of planned facilities and services and their planned capacities and performance standards;  (c) A description of the location of planned facilities, services and major improvements, establishing the general corridor within which the facilities, services or improvements may be sited. This shall include a map showing the general location of proposed transportation improvements, a description of facility parameters such as minimum and maximum road right of way width and the number and size of lanes, and any other additional description that is appropriate;  (d) Identification of the provider of each transportation facility or service. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 195.012, 197.040, 197.712, 197.717 & 197.732 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 6-2006, f. 7-13-06, cert. ef. 7-14-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1995, f. & cert. ef. 5-8-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 5-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
