



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employment Department 
 Chapter 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES GENERAL AND INTERNAL RULES 
 471-010-0115 
 Customer Information and Disclosure: Business and Employment Services Disclosures 
 
 (1) The Department is authorized to disclose confidential customer information or records to one-stop delivery system partners if:  (a) A written disclosure agreement exists between the Employment Department and one-stop delivery system partner addressing confidentiality and authorized uses of the customer information;  (b) The request is based on the one-stop delivery system partner’s "need to know" to perform official duties of their program;  (c) The customer whose information or records are being disclosed has provided informed consent authorizing that the information may be shared or disclosed; and  (d) Notice is provided that a consent, or authorization, is on file or secured electronically within the workforce system.  (2) The department is authorized to share business information with one-stop delivery system partners if:  (a) A written disclosure agreement exists between the Employment Department and one-stop delivery system partner addressing confidentiality and authorized uses of the employer information;  (b) The request is based on the one-stop delivery system partner's "need to know" to perform official duties of their program;  (c) The information does not include employer wage records or employer tax data; and  (d) The information is necessary for providing services to businesses. The information to be shared may include details such as who to contact, planned contact schedules, employer training needs, and results of contacts and telephone calls for coordinated service delivery to the business community.  (3) The department is authorized to disclose job listing information to customers, under the following circumstances:  (a) For "self-refer" job listings, the job will be listed with all needed information displayed directly for all interested job seekers, who may then contact the employer directly; or  (b) For "suppressed" job listings, the needed information is only provided to job seekers who are determined to be qualified for the job listing, and who are then given contact information by the Employment Department, authorized Hosted Workers, or one-stop delivery system partners with approved access to the information. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 657.610 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 657.665 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ED 7-2008, f. 5-20-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ED 4-2008(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-26-08 thru 8-23-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
