



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 ACCOUNTABILITY REPORTING ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
 581-002-1805 
 Annual List of Dyslexia-Related Training Opportunities
 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Education shall annually develop a list of training opportunities related to dyslexia. 

 (2) To be included on the list of approved training opportunities, the training must: 

 (a)  Comply with the knowledge and practice standards of an international organization on dyslexia: 

 (A) The Department shall review knowledge and practice standards from known international organizations on dyslexia annually; and 

 (B) In the event that more than one set of international standards exist, the Department will review, with stakeholder involvement, all standards to ensure the selection of standards that reflect current evidence-based practices related to dyslexia. 

 (b) Include content in one or more of the following areas: 

 (A) Understanding and recognizing dyslexia; 

 (B) Using evidence-based practices to systematically and explicitly teach the foundational skills in reading; and 

 (C) Intensifying instruction to meet the needs of students with severe reading difficulties, including dyslexia. 

 (3) The Oregon Department of Education will independently review potential training opportunities and annually post a Request for Information for dyslexia-related training opportunities to solicit information from interested vendors. 

 (a) The Department will review training opportunities on a rolling basis, beginning as early as January 1 of each year and concluding by June 15 of that calendar year. 

 (b) The Department will post a Request for Information no later than February 1st of each year. The Request for Information will remain posted through March 15th of that calendar year. 

 (c) The Department will consult with the Teachers Standards and Practices Commission to ensure the approved training opportunities also satisfy professional development requirements for teachers. 

 (d) The final list of approved training opportunities will be posted no later than June 15th of each year. 

 (e) Once a training opportunity has been approved by the Department and placed on the list of training opportunities, to remain on the list the Vendor must submit on an annual basis a request for renewal on a form to be provided by the Department. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.726 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 326.726 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 1-2018, amend filed 01/26/2018, effective 01/27/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
