



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 160 ESTABLISH A RENEWABLE ENERGY CERTIFICATE SYSTEM FOR THE OREGON RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARD (RPS) 
 330-160-0060 
 Periodic Review of Multiple-fuel facilities 
 
 (1) Multiple-fuel facilities are subject every three years to a review of the percentage of the facility’s electricity generation that is allocated to RPS-eligible fuels.  (2) The Department will enter into WREGIS an expiration date for a multiple-fuel facility’s Oregon RPS certification that is three years from the date the Department completes its review of the percentage of the facility’s electricity generation that is allocated to RPS-eligible fuels.  (3) The Department will provide written notice to a generator representative at least 6 months before its multiple-fuel facility’s Oregon RPS certification is scheduled to expire.  (4) For a facility to remain RPS-eligible, the generator representative must complete one of the following actions prior to the facility’s Oregon RPS certification expiration date:  (a) Sign a form provided by the Department attesting that the physical equipment and operation of the facility has not changed in a manner that would affect the facility’s RPS-eligible fuel allocation since that RPS-eligible fuel allocation was established; or  (b) Provide to the Department an updated calculation of the facility’s RPS-eligible fuel allocation with supporting documentation requested by the Department.  (5) Within 30 days of receiving the information provided by the generator representative pursuant to subsection (4) of this section, the Department will update WREGIS to extend the multiple-fuel facility’s Oregon RPS certification expiration date by three years.  (6) If the Department determines that the percentage of the facility’s electricity generation allocated to RPS-eligible fuels has changed from the facility’s current RPS certification, the Department will revise the facility’s RPS-eligible fuel allocation in WREGIS accordingly and notify the generator representative of the revised fuel allocation in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469A.130 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469A.130 - 469A.145 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
