



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Rail Division - Chapter 741 
 
 
 
 
 Division 600 ACCIDENT NOTICES AND REPORTS 
 741-600-0040 
 Joint Operations 
 
 (1) for the purpose of accident classification, the term “joint operations” is intended to cover operations on terminal or other tracks used jointly or in common by two or more reporting carriers, or where the equipment of one carrier moves as its own train over the track of another carrier.  (2) Locomotives, with or without crews, if loaned or leased by one carrier to another, are not thereby made subject to the rules relative to “joint operations.”  (3) Trains or locomotives of a non-reporting carrier which may become involved in reportable accidents on the line of a reporting carrier do not fall under the rules pertaining to “joint operations”; such accident, however, should be included in the report of the reporting carrier.  (4) If a reportable accident occurs on a private siding or track of like character, it shall be reported by the carrier having possession of the locomotive concerned, or employing the persons involved but not as a joint operation accident.  (5) Accidents occurring on tracks used by two or more reporting carriers should be severally reported by the carrier or carriers whose equipment or employees are involved and the carrier whose superintendent is in immediate charge of the track on which the accident occurs. Each carrier concerned in such an accident should report the damage to its equipment and other items of expense as provided in the report blank and state (estimating, if unknown) the amount of damage sustained by the other carriers involved, the names of which should be respectively indicated before the items of damage.  (6) If a reportable accident, though occurring on jointly used track, involves only the equipment and employees of the carrier whose superintendent is in immediate charge of such track, the accident need be reported only by the carrier concerned.  (7) Where two or more reporting carriers’ trains are involved, each carrier should report casualties to its passengers, employees, and other persons on its train. Casualties to classes of persons not here mentioned should be appropriately reported by the carrier concerned.  (8) Accidents occurring on terminal or other tracks used jointly or in common by two or more reporting carriers involving employees on duty should be reported by the several carriers concerned. Casualties to other persons should be reported by the carrier whose equipment is involved. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 823 & 824 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 823.027 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RS 2-1996, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-96, Renumbered from 860-047-0015 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-1983, f. & ef. 3-16-83, Order No. 83-143 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
