



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission 
 Chapter 845 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 GENERAL 
 845-004-0120 
 Investigative Subpoenas and Oaths 
 
 (1) Purpose. ORS 471.760 allows the Commissioners and any of their authorized agents to issue subpoenas and administer oaths. The Commissioners delegate authority to the Administrator and Deputy Administrator to issue investigative subpoenas, and authorize the Administrator to delegate that authority to selected staff. This rule defines the circumstances under which the Commission issues investigative subpoenas and administers oaths. This rule does not concern subpoenas issued and oaths administered by Administrative Law Judges in the contested case process. For purposes of this rule, the term “records” includes videotapes, DVDs, audiotapes, CDs, and other media used to capture or record information and activities.  (2) At any time during a license application, Service Permit application, or alleged liquor law violation investigation, the Administrator or Deputy Administrator may issue:  (a) An investigative subpoena for books, payrolls, accounts, papers, documents or records under the following circumstances:  (A) It appears to the Administrator or Deputy Administrator the information may be helpful to make a decision about a liquor license application, Service Permit application, or alleged liquor law violation; and  (B) The applicant, licensee or Service Permittee cannot or will not provide the book, payroll, account, paper, document or record; the investigation might be compromised by asking the licensee or applicant for the book, payroll, account, paper, document or record; or the person in possession of the book, payroll, account, paper, document or record requires a subpoena for its release.  (b) An investigative subpoena to any person requiring the person to give a sworn statement. The Administrator or Deputy Administrator may issue a subpoena whenever compelling a sworn statement may be helpful in making a decision about a liquor license application, Service Permit application, or alleged liquor law violation. Investigators, Inspectors, Regional Coordinators and Regional Managers may conduct interviews of subpoenaed witnesses under oath.  (3) During a liquor license application, Service Permit application, or alleged liquor law violation investigation, an Investigator, Inspector, Regional Coordinator or Regional Manager may administer an oath to a person making a voluntary statement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 471 including 471.030, 471.730(1) & (5) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 471.760 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 6-2005, f. 10-19-05, cert. ef. 11-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 16-1997, f. 7-24-97, cert. ef. 9-1-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
