



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING - VENTILATOR ASSISTED PROGRAM (VAP) 
 411-090-0180 
 Resident Services in a Ventilator Assisted Program Unit 
 
 (1) Individuals who are dependent on invasive mechanical ventilation as a means of life support and individuals who are transitioning from mechanical ventilation, may participate in the Ventilator Assisted Program. 

 (2) Individuals who are dependent on BiPAP or CPAP due to acute respiratory failure or exacerbation of chronic illness, may participate in the Ventilator Assisted Program for a period of time as determined by a physician or Pulmonologist. 

 (3) At time of move-in, the facility must make reasonable attempts to identify the customary routines of each resident and the resident's preferences in how services may be delivered. Minimum services to be provided include: 

 (a) Assistance with activities of daily living that addresses the needs of each resident dependent on invasive mechanical ventilation as a means of life support. These services must meet or be in addition to the requirements in the licensing rules for the facility. Services must be provided in a manner that promotes resident choice, dignity, and sustains the resident's abilities. 

 (b) Health care services provided in accordance with the licensing rules of the facility, along with the following additional health services: 

 (A) Lab services related to the Ventilator Assisted Program. 

 (B) Speech services related to the Ventilator Assisted Program. 

 (C) Respiratory therapy related to the Ventilator Assisted Program. 

 (c) Physician provided oversight of the resident who is dependent on invasive mechanical ventilation as a means of life support. A physician may delegate a task in a Ventilator Assisted Program Unit only if it is for tasks within the scope of a Respiratory Therapists or Registered Nurses license. 

 (d) The Ventilator Assisted Program Licensed Respiratory Therapist may participate in the delivery of unit services that are ancillary to respiratory care for the residents, including, but not limited to social work, discharge planning, and training of primary caregivers or family members in care of discharged residents. 

 (4) An RN shall ensure completion and documentation of a comprehensive assessment of the resident's capabilities and needs as described in 411-086-0060(1). 

 (5) The facility shall establish a care plan for long-term respiratory stability for individuals and utilize mechanical ventilation capacity efficiently and effectively. 

 (a) The goal is to wean individuals from mechanical ventilator dependency, when medically appropriate, and to transition them into a lower level of care. 

 (b) The facility shall be proactive in identifying an individual's potential to be weaned and in applying weaning techniques according to evidence-based, nationally accepted practice guidelines. 

 (6) The facility shall ensure and document that sufficient ventilator equipment is maintained in good working order as recommended by the manufacturer including, but not limited to: 

 (a) Primary ventilators. 

 (b) Back-up ventilators. 

 (c) Emergency batteries. 

 (d) Oxygen tanks. 

 (e) Suction machines. 

 (f) Nebulizers. 

 (g) Manual resuscitator. 

 (h) Pulse oximetry monitoring equipment. 

 (i) Nutrient infusion pumps. 

 (j) Any medically necessary durable medical equipment (DME) and supplies. 

 (7) The facility shall maintain and keep general maintenance records on all ventilators and general equipment. Resident in-room specific records must be maintained and provided to the Department when requested. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 441.055, 441.615 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 441.055, 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 9-2019, adopt filed 01/31/2019, effective 02/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
