



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 57 PESTICIDE CONTROL 
 603-057-0360 
 Sodium Fluoroacetate (Compound 1080) and the Livestock Protection Collar; Restrictions on Use 
 
 (1) Coyotes shall be the only species that may be considered to be a regulated pest, as defined in OAR 603-057-0001(8), and therefore considered to be a target organism, upon which sodium fluoroacetate (Compound 1080) and the livestock protection collar may be used.  (2) Only employees of the United States Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Damage Control, licensed as public pesticide applicators in the subcategory specified in OAR 603-057-0115(4)(b) shall use the livestock protection collar containing sodium fluoroacetate (Compound 1080).  (3) The following shall apply to use of the livestock protection collar containing sodium fluoroacetate (Compound 1080):  (a) Use of collars shall conform to all applicable federal, state and local regulations;  (b) Use of collars shall be limited to appropriate sites within the geographic boundaries of Curry County, Oregon;  (c) Collars shall only be in the possession of the registrant and its employees, except when in use;  (d) Collars shall only be filled with Compound 1080 solution by the manufacturer;  (e) Collars shall be used only to take coyotes that prey upon domestic livestock within fenced pastures no larger than 2,560 acres;  (f) Collars may be used only after a finding by United States Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Damage Control personnel that appropriate non-lethal methods of coyote control, by method, have failed to reduce losses to an acceptable level, and all other available lethal or non-lethal methods have been found to be ineffective or inappropriate;  (g) Prior to use of the livestock protection collar at a particular site, a preapplication inspection report will be completed by the applicator which identifies the following:  (A) Non-lethal techniques utilized at the site, and the reason each one was found to be impractical or unsatisfactory;  (B) Non-lethal techniques considered for the site, and the reason each one was considered impractical or unsatisfactory;  (C) Lethal techniques utilized at the site, and the reason each one was found to be impractical or unsatisfactory;  (D) Lethal techniques considered for the site, and the reason each one was considered impractical or unsatisfactory.  (h) Where collars are in use, each logical point of access shall be conspicuously posted with a bilingual (English/Spanish) warning sign not less than 8” x 10” in size. Such signs shall be inspected weekly to insure their continued presence and legibility, and will be removed when all collars are removed and accounted for;  (i) Each collar in use shall be inspected by the applicator at least twice a week to insure that it is properly positioned and unbroken;  (j) Damaged or broken collars shall be removed from the field and either returned to the manufacturer for repair or disposed of properly;  (k) If a collar is lost, an intensive search for the missing collar shall be conducted within twelve hours from the time the loss is noted. Use of all other collars at the particular site shall be terminated after twelve hours if a search is not conducted for the lost collar and a cause for the loss identified. If the collar is lost due to a deficiency which can be corrected, appropriate corrections will be enacted prior to the continued use of collars on that site;  (l) If a collar is found to have been punctured by a predator attacking a collared animal, an intensive search shall be conducted for the animal which punctured the collar;  (m) Disposal of punctured or unserviceable collars and contaminated animal remains, vegetation and soil shall be accomplished by deep burial or burning at a safe location, preferably on the property of the landowner;  (n) Storage of livestock protection collars containing Compound 1080 shall only be under lock and key in a dry place away from food, feed, domestic animals and corrosive chemicals. Collars shall not be stored in any structure occupied by humans. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 634 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 634.306(13) & 634.322(6) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 6-11-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 10-1987, f. & ef. 7-1-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 7-1977, f. & ef. 4-5-77 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
