



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 K-STATE PLAN ANCILLARY SERVICES 
 411-035-0090 
 Voluntary Consumer Training Services 
 
 (1) GENERAL GUIDELINES.  (a) State K-Plan voluntary training services are offered on how to select; manage; and dismiss homecare workers.  (b) The training must meet the needs of consumers in regards to selecting, managing, and dismissing attendants.  (c) The training must be provided in a culturally competent manner.  (2) TRAINING PLAN.  (a) The provider must meet with the consumer to discuss:  (A) The consumer’s goals;  (B) Expected outcomes of the training; and  (C) The consumer's on-going in-home service plan.  (b) The provider must develop a training plan with the consumer or the consumer's designated representative using the principles of person-centered planning which addresses the consumer’s specific needs, goals, and desired outcomes. A small group option may be offered, if available.  (c) The provider must provide a copy of the training plan to the consumer or the consumer's designated representative and the consumer's case manager.  (d) The provider must inform the case manager if, after receiving services, a consumer or consumer's designated representative appears unable to assume employer responsibilities as defined in OAR 411-030-0040. The provider must inform the case manager of any issues related to the health and safety of the consumer including, but not limited to, unsafe conditions in the home and suspected abuse.  (3) TRAINING CONTENT.  (a) The training must offer a continuum of services based on a consumer's needs and preferences.  (b) The training must include, at minimum, the following:  (A) Understanding the service plan and task list;  (B) Creating job descriptions, locating employees, interviewing, completing reference checks, and hiring a homecare worker;  (C) Creating an employment agreement;  (D) Training, supervising, and communicating effectively with employees;  (E) Ensuring work is performed satisfactorily;  (F) Correcting unsatisfactory work performance and discharging unsatisfactory workers;  (G) Scheduling and tracking hours worked and maintaining employment records;  (H) Developing a backup plan for coverage of services; and  (I) Fraud prevention.  (4) TIMEFRAMES.  (a) Providers must contact the consumer within 5 working days of receiving a referral from the Department, a designee, or a request from a consumer for services, and offer the choice of a telephone or in-person planning interview.  (b) The provider must perform a planning interview within 10 business days following the acceptance of the consumer's referral unless the consumer requests a later date.  (c) The provider must initiate the individualized training plan within 10 business days of conducting a planning interview.  (d) The provider may offer additional information and support within the parameters of the training plan, but may not assume the role of designated representative by performing tasks that are the responsibility of a consumer-employer.  (e) The provider may periodically contact the consumer or designated representative to determine if additional information and assistance is required. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050, 410.040, 410.090, 410.210 to 410.300 & 441.520 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 16-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
