



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0120 
 State Advisory Committee 
 
 (1) The School Improvement and Professional Development Advisory Committee, appointed by the State Board of Education under ORS 336.730, shall propose rules, for adoption by the State Board, to govern the submission and approval of applications for the 21st Century Schools Program.  (2) The advisory committee shall review all applications submitted under this Act and recommend applications for approval by the State Board including but not limited to the following criteria:  (a) The existence of significant, measurable, and achievable goals based on student performance;  (b) The extent to which the district has demonstrated the need for the requested modifications and waiver of specified statutes and rules and local policies and agreements;  (c) The extent to which the application proposes significant changes in the structure of school operations and the formal relationships among teachers, administrators, and public citizens, as described in OAR 581-020-0100;  (d) The clarity of purpose and values underlying the proposal;  (e) Evidence of thoroughness in identifying, developing, and projecting implementation of the proposed activities;  (f) Evidence of potential transferability of the proposed activities and practices that are judged to be successful;  (g) A determination that modification or waiver of statutes and rules and local policies and agreements will not be detrimental to the health, safety, or constitutional rights of students, teachers, administrators, or the public under state or federal law; and  (h) A demonstration of support and commitment from all parties to support and faithfully implement the proposal.  (3) The advisory committee may suggest modifications in submitted applications, subject to the approval of the school board, the exclusive representative of teachers and each building site committee involved in the project.  (4) The State Board shall consider the recommendations of the advisory committee and make the final decisions on approval of the applications, using the criteria contained in section (2) of this rule. Before making these decisions, the State Board shall allow opportunity for comment by persons submitting the applications and by the public. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 840 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329.700 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 1-26-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
