



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 78 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS FOR CHEMICAL PROCESS MINING 
 690-078-0080 
 Map to Accompany an Application for Water Use Permit for Chemical Process Mining 
 
 Maps submitted with applications for water use in chemical process mining shall be prepared by a certified water right examiner and meet the following criteria:  (1) The application map, which is made part of the record, shall be of permanent quality and drawn with sufficient clarity so as to be easily reproduced.  (2) Maps shall be drawn on tracing linen, tracing vellum or mylar except that maps measuring 11" x 17" or smaller may be prepared on good-quality paper. All maps shall be drawn to a standard, even scale of not less than 4 inches = one mile. Small area maps may be more easily and clearly drawn to a larger scale, such as one inch = 400 feet.  (3) Four permanent-quality prints of other maps, such as deed description survey maps or county assessor maps, may also be used if all the required information is clearly shown on each print. A single print of these may be used only if it is reproduced as a transparency, such as a sepia print or on mylar film.  (4) Each copy of the map shall show clearly each of the following requirements that apply to the proposed appropriation:  (a) The location of each diversion point, well, or dam by reference to a recognized public land survey corner. The locations may be shown by distance and bearing or by coordinates (distance north or south and distance east or west from the corner);  (b) The location of all canals, ditches, pipelines, or flumes;  (c) The location of the place where water is to be used;  (d) The scale to which the map is drawn, the section number, township, and range, and a north directional symbol. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 735 & 1991 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-1992, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
