



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 210 TEACHING LICENSES 
 584-210-0090 
 International Visiting Teacher License
 
 
 (1) Purpose of the License: The International Visiting Teacher License is issued to educators who permanently reside in another country and who are participating in a cultural exchange of teachers and pedagogy strategies between Oregon and their home country. 

 (2) District Sponsorship: The International Visiting Teacher License requires district sponsorship. The sponsoring district must submit: 

 (a) A statement that includes: 

 (A) The grade level(s) and subject-matter endorsement area(s) the applicant has been hired to teach; 

 (B) The district’s plan for supervision of the teacher; 

 (C) The district’s plan to provide a mentor for the applicant. The plan must specifically identify the mentor; and 

 (D) Verification that the district will obtain the license for the educator prior to assignment within the district or prior to the 91st day after the date of application for licensure. 

 (b) All materials in the form and manner requested by the Director of Licensure related to the application for the Exchange Visitor Program in the Teacher category. 

 (3) Renewal of District Sponsorship: To be eligible for a reissue of the International Visiting Teacher License, a sponsoring district must provide: 

 (a) A statement of renewed sponsorship that confirms: 

 (A) All assignments of the licensed teacher will remain within the scope the subject-matter endorsements on the license; and 

 (B) The plan for supervision and mentoring remains in place. The statement must update the name of the mentor, if appropriate. 

 (b) A copy of the request for extension of the Exchange Visitor Program in the teacher category; and 

 (c) Verification that the U.S. Department of State has granted the request for extension of the Exchange Visitor Program in the teacher category. An applicant will not be eligible for a third or fourth reissue of the International Visiting Teacher License unless TSPC receives official verification that the applicant has been granted an extension of the Exchange Visitor Program from the U.S. Department of State. 

 (4) Term of Licensure: The International Visiting Teacher License can be reissued up to four times, for a total of five years, in accordance with the following provisions: 

 (a) For applications received from July 1 through December 31, the first International Visiting Teacher License is valid through June 30 of the school year for which it is issued. 

 (b) For applications received from January 1 through June 30, the first International Visiting Teacher License is valid through June 30 of the following school year unless otherwise requested by the sponsoring district; 

 (c) All subsequent International Visiting Teacher Licenses will expire on June 30. 

 (d) Upon expiration of the final term of the International Visiting Teacher License, the educator must qualify for another Oregon teaching license if the educator plans to continue teaching in Oregon public schools. 

 (5) Assignment and Endorsement Authorization: The International Visiting Teacher License qualifies the teacher to accept within the sponsoring district: 

 (a) Any instructional assignment from prekindergarten through grade 12 within the scope of the subject-matter endorsement(s) on the International Visiting Teaching License; and 

 (b) Substitute teaching assignments within the subject-matter endorsement areas authorized by the license. 

 (6) To be eligible to apply for the International Visiting Teacher License, the applicant must: 

 (a) Provide a statement from the sponsoring district in accordance with subsection (2) of this rule; 

 (b) Have not previously held a TSPC license, unless an exemption is approved by the Director of Licensure; 

 (c) Possess the personal qualifications for licensure including attainment of at least eighteen years of age and possessing good moral character and mental and physical health necessary for employment as an educator; 

 (d) Provide evidence that the applicant is not a resident of the United States; 

 (e) Provide a copy of a valid and current J-1 Visa; 

 (f) Provide proof of participation in the Exchange Visitor Program in a J-1 Visa status monitored by the U.S. State Department. Proof of participation must include verification from the Designated Sponsor Organization monitored by the U.S. State Department; 

 (g) All materials requested by the Director of Licensure related to the application for the Exchange Visitor Program in the Teacher category; 

 (h) Complete a background clearance that includes: 

 (A) Furnishing fingerprints (if required); 

 (B) Providing satisfactory responses to character questions in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission; and 

 (i) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (7) Reissues: To be eligible to apply for a reissue of the International Visiting Teaching License, an applicant must submit: 

 (a) A PEER form verifying the applicant’s assignment; 

 (b) A statement from the sponsoring district in accordance with subsection (3) of this rule; and 

 (c) A complete and correct renewal application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 - 342.144 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 11-2024, amend filed 06/24/2024, effective 07/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 19-2023, amend filed 10/23/2023, effective 11/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 4-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 12-2015, f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
