



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 MANAGEMENT OF STATE FOREST LANDS 
 629-035-0050 
 Forest Land Management Classifications 
 
 (1) For purposes of implementing the plan’s forest resource management strategies, the State Forester shall classify all forest lands within the planning area. The classifications must describe:  (a) The types of management that the Department will apply to particular areas of the land base;  (b) The appropriate range of management activities for these areas; and  (c) The forest resource or resources the classification is intended to address.  (2) The District Forester shall recommend to the State Forester land management classifications determined under subsection (1) of this section for each district. The recommended classifications shall be shown on maps.  (3) In classifying lands under this section:  (a) The State Forester may harvest forest tree species at some level on any Silviculturally Capable lands, regardless of classification, unless a legal or contractual obligation on the land prevents such management or unless the district determines under subsection (4) of this section that other management is more consistent with the direction of OAR 629-035-0020.  (b) No land designated as Silviculturally Capable land shall be managed for a single use unless required by law or contract or the District Forester determines under subsection (4) of this section that a single use for a particular parcel or parcels of Silviculturally Capable land is more consistent with the direction of OAR 629-035-0020.  (4) In determining whether to restrict or prohibit timber harvest on Silviculturally Capable lands or to allow a single use on Silviculturally Capable lands, the District Forester shall consider:  (a) Effects on other forest resources. In making this determination, the district shall consider, but is not limited to, the following:  (A) Risk to other forest resources;  (B) Sensitivity of forest resources;  (C) Duration and intensity of impact;  (D) Ability of forest resources to recover;  (E) Contribution to meeting planning goals;  (F) Intensity of the management practice;  (G) Type of forest resources involved.  (b) Public safety or other potential liability to the state;  (c) Specific desired uses;  (d) Legal constraints.  (5) Before sending the recommended classifications to the State Forester, the District Forester shall offer a 90-day public comment period on the recommendations. All public comments shall be forwarded to the State Forester, along with the District Forester’s classification recommendations.  (6) The State Forester shall approve, modify, or deny the District Forester’s recommendations. If the State Forester modifies the recommendations, the State Forester or District Forester shall prepare a new map showing the modified land management classifications for the district. If the State Forester denies the recommendations, the District Forester shall prepare new recommendations according to the provisions of subsections (1) to (5) of this section. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.016(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.010 - 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 2-1998, f. 1-15-98, cert. ef. 3-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
