



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR LOW-TEMPERATURE GEOTHERMAL PRODUCTION  AND INJECTION WELLS AND EFFLUENT  DISPOSAL SYSTEMS 
 690-230-0115 
 Injection Plan for Wells with an Anticipated Injection Rate Exceeding 15,000 Gallons Per Day 
 
 No low-temperature geothermal injection well shall be used for injection without approval of the Director in accordance with OAR 690-210-0070. The injection plan for the proposed injection of greater than 15,000 gallons per day to a low-temperature geothermal injection well shall include, but is not limited to, the following:  (1) Details of well construction, including water supply well reports for the production well and the injection well.  (2) Description of the number and location of water bearing zones from both production and injection wells.  (3) Water temperature data from both the production and injection wells.  (4) Water level data from both the production and injection wells. If information from the well report is not sufficient to determine the effects of injection, the Director may require additional geologic or hydrologic information, including but not limited to, temperature/depth logs of the wells.  (5) Water quality information including analysis by a laboratory certified by the Oregon Health Division for drinking water standards for the following parameters: arsenic, boron, calcium, carbonate or bicarbonate, chloride, fluoride, iron, magnesium, manganese, pH, potassium, silica, sodium, specific conductance, sulfate, suspended solids, total dissolved solids, and total coliform bacteria. If the low-temperature geothermal effluent is suspected to be of poor water quality or to be otherwise incompatible with the water in the receiving zone in the injection well, the Director may require additional specific water quality data. If the information on the well reports for the wells involved is not sufficient to determine the effects of injection, the Director may require additional geologic or hydrologic information, including but not limited to, temperature/depth logs of the wells. The Director may waive the requirement for specific portions or all of the chemical analyses if the fluid quality is known to be suitable for the intended production and injection.  (6) A map indicating the location and elevation of both the production well and the injection well in accordance with OAR 690-230-0045. All maps shall be drawn to a standard, even scale of not less than 4 inches = 1 mile. Small area maps may be more easily and clearly drawn to a larger scale, such as 1 inch = 400 feet. The well owner shall submit injection plans to the Director indicating proposed separation distances between production and injection wells on the parcel of land on which the production well is located, on the parcel of land on which the injection well is located, and on all adjacent parcels of land, as well as land surface elevation at each well head.  (7) Any planned safeguards to prevent substantial thermal or hydrologic interference with existing rights to appropriate ground water and surface water and alteration of existing or potential drinking water supplies. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 537 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 537 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 7-2001, f. & cert. ef. 11-15-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 18-1990, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
