



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0105 
 Therapy Related Computer Systems 
 
 (1) A registrant shall perform acceptance testing on the treatment planning system of electronic brachytherapy-related computer systems in accordance with current published recommendations from a recognized national professional association with expertise in electronic brachytherapy (when available). In the absence of an acceptance testing protocol published by a national professional association, the manufacturer’s acceptance testing protocol shall be followed.  (a) Acceptance testing shall be performed by, or under the direct supervision of a Qualified Medical Physicist. At a minimum, the acceptance testing shall include, as applicable, verification of:  (A) The source-specific input parameters required by the dose calculation algorithm;  (B) The accuracy of dose, dwell time, and treatment time calculations at representative points;  (C) The accuracy of isodose plots and graphic displays;  (D) The accuracy of the software used to determine radiation source positions from radiographic images, if applicable; and  (E) If the treatment-planning system is different from the treatment-delivery system, the accuracy of electronic transfers of the treatment delivery parameters to the treatment delivery unit from the treatment planning system.  (2) The position indicators in the applicator shall be compared to the actual position of the source or planned swell positions, as appropriate, at the time of commissioning.  (3) Prior to each patient treatment regimen, the parameters for the treatment shall be evaluated and approved by a Radiation Therapy Physician and a Qualified Medical Physicist for correctness through means independent of that used for determination of the parameters. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
