



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL 
 603-052-0395 
 Union County Potato Disease Control Area and Procedures 
 
 (1) As authorized by ORS 570.305 and 570.405, a control area is established for the protection of the seed potato industry in Union County against the introduction and spread of potato diseases, including viruses and pests. Such area includes all of Union County, Oregon north of the Craig Mountain Range: i.e. all of Union County north of a west to east line starting at the intersection of the Western border of Union County and the northern border of T4S R34E sec 34 and continuing due east to the eastern border of Union County at the northern border of T4S R43E sec 31.  (2) The following methods are to be used in the control area described in section (1) of this rule for the control of potato diseases and pests within the control area and to prevent the introduction of such diseases and pests into Union County:  (a) All potato seed imported into the control area shall have a Federal-State Shipping Point inspection and certification prior to entering the control area;  (b) All potatoes planted in the control area for the purpose of producing seed quality or commercial potatoes shall meet the minimum disease tolerances of OSU Potato Seed Certification Standards for generation 2 (field year 3) stock and must be eligible for re-certification in the growing area based upon a winter grow-out test. All production larger in scope than a home garden (potatoes not grown for re-sale in commercial markets are considered home garden or noncommercial potato production) must be entered into the OSU Seed Certification Program as a seed production field or into the Un-certified Field Inspection Program as a commercial production field;  (c) All potato seed sold in the control area for the purpose of home garden or noncommercial potato production shall be of a quality that meets the minimum requirements of the Oregon State University potato seed certification standards for Oregon G4 or earlier generations;  (d) All cull potatoes accumulated at the time potatoes are dug and moved into storage shall be destroyed within 30 days, and all cull potatoes accumulated during shipment process shall also be destroyed within 30 days;  (e) Diseases, such as potato late blight, or viruses vectored by aphids require preventative management. Therefore, appropriate control measures are required throughout the growing season to prevent late blight infection or buildup of insects that vector viruses. Specific ways to prevent these problems require using widely accepted methods such as found in the Pacific Northwest Disease/Insect Management Handbooks, or as recommended by local experts in disease/insect control.  (f) All farm equipment related to potato production (used to till and level farm ground or handle potatoes), must be steam cleaned or power washed to remove all soil and plant debris before entering the control area.  (3) Potatoes in transit through the control area shall be in containers or vehicles covered or sealed to prevent lost of tubers or soil.  (4) Destruction of volunteer potatoes. Each grower within the control area is responsible for destroying volunteer potatoes growing on summer fallow, set-aside, non-cultivated, and rotational crop areas of the grower’s property. In the event that the grower fails to destroy such plants, the Director may order them destroyed at the expense of the grower. Volunteers in rotation crops should be controlled in the best way possible.  (5) Potatoes in home gardens may be subject to inspection by the Oregon Department of Agriculture should the need arise, and effective control measures shall be taken if necessary.  (6) Any violation of this rule shall be deemed to be a violation of ORS 570.410 and subject the violator to the penalty provisions of ORS 570.990 and 570.995, including civil penalties of up to $10,000. Additionally, any potato seed found to be in violation of this rule shall be destroyed or disposed of in a manner prescribed by the Department. The grower shall pay the cost of destruction. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190, 570.305 & 570.405 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 571.057 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 10-2008, f. & cert. ef. 2-28-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
