



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 106 X-RAYS IN THE HEALING ARTS 
 333-106-0362 
 Computed Tomography X-ray Systems: Operating Procedures and Conditions of Operation 
 
 (1) Within six months following the effective date of these rules, the CT facility shall establish default scanning protocols in consultation with a qualified CT medical physicist.  (2) Default scanning protocols shall be password protected or a written policy shall be in place that prohibits anyone from changing protocols without documented approval from the CT medical director, lead CT technologist or supervising CT radiologist.  (a) Each facility shall establish a policy to review all of their default CT protocols at least annually to ensure they are correct and are the intended protocols.  (b) Written and signed documentation of this annual review shall be kept and made available for inspection for each CT unit at the facility.  (3) The CT operator shall ensure all technique factors and dose indices are appropriate for the protocol being used and the patient being imaged. This may be accomplished by reviewing dose indicator devices if available or dose indices such as the technique factors.  (4) The facility shall establish a written policy for retaking CT exams on patients.  (5) Staff shall not be required by the licensee or registrant to hold patients during CT examinations.  (6) When a patient must be held in position for a CT procedure, mechanical supporting or restraining devices shall be used unless contraindicated. If the patient must be held by an individual, this individual shall wear a protective apron of 0.5 millimeter minimum lead equivalence and be so positioned that no part of his or her body shall be in the path of the primary beam and that his or her body is as far as possible from the edge of the primary beam.  (7) Only individuals whose presence is necessary are allowed in a CT scan room during exposure. Each individual, except the patient, shall be protected by at least 0.5 millimeter lead equivalent aprons or a whole body protective barrier.  (8) A CT scanner shall not be left unattended without locking the apparatus, room, or building in some manner which must prevent use of the apparatus by unauthorized persons. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 24-2014, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
