



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Dairy Products Commission - Chapter 617 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 COMMISSION MAKE-UP, TERMS, QUALIFICATIONS, TERM LIMITS, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE 
 617-030-0020 
 Qualifications of Commissioners
 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule: 

 (a) A "producer" is a person growing or producing within this state or procuring within the state, its rivers or the offshore waters, but not the Columbia River, for commercial handling within the state, a commodity for market, or receiving a share thereof as landowner, landlord, tenant, sharecropper, boat skipper or otherwise. A producer must have paid the commission assessment on the commodity in each of the preceding three calendar years. 

 (b) A "handler" is any producer, processor, distributor or other person engaged in handling or marketing of or dealing in the commodity, whether as owner, agent, employee, broker or otherwise. A handler must have collected the commission assessment, if any, each of the preceding three calendar years. 

 (2) Members of the Oregon Dairy Products Commission will have the following qualifications, which will continue during the term of office of the member: 

 (a) One member of the commission will be a member of the public with an active interest in the positive economic development, production and/or marketing of the commodity, but who is not associated with the production or handling of dairy products; 

 (b) A majority of the members will be producers; 

 (c) One member will be a handler; 

 (d) All members who are not a handler or the public member will be producers. 

 (3) In addition to the qualifications set forth in subsection (2) of this rule, the districts and the number of producer members will be: 

 (a)  Tillamook / North Coast: Clatsop, Tillamook, and Lincoln counties - two (2) producer members. 

 (b) Willamette / Southern Oregon: Clackamas, Columbia, Multnomah, Washington, Lane, Linn, Benton, Marion, Polk, Yamhill, Douglas, Josephine, Jackson, Klamath, Coos, and Curry counties — two (2) producer members. 

 (c) Central and Eastern Oregon: Malheur, Baker, Wallowa, Union, Grant, Umatilla, Harney, Deschutes, Crook, Jefferson, Hood River, Wasco, Morrow, Sherman, Gilliam, Wheeler and Lake counties — two (2) producer members. 

 (4)  One (1) handler member will be appointed from any district. 

 (5) Notwithstanding subsection (3) of this section, if a position remains vacant for more than 90 days following reasonable efforts to recruit a member from a particular district, a person may be appointed at large and may reside anywhere within the State of Oregon. Once that person’s term expires and he or she is not reappointed, the position will again be subject to the geographic qualification requirements of subsection (3) of this section. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 576 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS576.206 & ORS 576.225 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODDC 1-2019, amend filed 06/06/2019, effective 06/15/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODDC 1-2004, f. 1-2-04 cert. ef. 1-16-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
