



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 270 OREGON POLST (PHYSICIAN ORDERS OR PORTABLE ORDERS FOR LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT) REGISTRY 
 333-270-0040 
 Submission of POLST Forms
 
 
 (1) Physicians, nurse practitioners, physician associates and naturopathic physicians are required to submit or cause to be submitted: 

 (a) Completed POLST forms they have signed, unless the patient has opted out of the Registry; and 

 (b) Revocations of which they are aware. 

 (2) Any person may submit a completed POLST form or revocation to the Registry, regardless of when the POLST form was completed. 

 (3) In order for a POLST form to be considered complete, the form must be signed by a physician, nurse practitioner, physician associate or naturopathic physician and the form and any supporting documentation shall include, but is not limited to: 

 (a) The patient’s full name; 

 (b) The patient’s date of birth; 

 (c) Orders related to cardiopulmonary resuscitation; 

 (d) The legible, printed name of the physician, nurse practitioner, physician associate or naturopathic physician authorizing the medical order; and 

 (e) The date the order was signed as defined in OAR 333-270-0030. 

 (4) If a POLST form is submitted and determined to be incomplete, the Registry will notify the submitter that the form is incomplete, describe the missing information, and request that the form be resubmitted once it is complete. 

 (5) A POLST form submitted under this rule may be submitted by facsimile or mail. If the Registry develops a secure method of accepting POLST forms electronically, POLST forms may be submitted electronically. 

 (6) The Registry shall record in the Registry records, as soon as reasonably possible after receipt of the POLST form, the following: 

 (a) The information from a POLST form described in subsections (3)(a) through (e) of this rule; and 

 (b) Instructions if any, regarding medical interventions, use of antibiotics, and artificially administered nutrition. 

 (7) If a revocation is submitted to the Registry, that patient’s POLST form shall be removed as soon as reasonably possible from the active Registry database. The Registry shall retain the POLST form for documentation, program evaluation and research purposes. 

 (8) The first time a physician, nurse practitioner, physician associate or naturopathic physician submits a POLST form to the Registry, the Registry shall verify that the physician, nurse practitioner, physician associate or naturopathic physician is licensed, in Oregon, or is otherwise permitted to practice under ORS 677.060(1) or 678.031(1). 

 (9) The Registry shall notify, in writing, a patient, or a patient’s personal representative if known, and the health care provider who signed the POLST form or revocation when the Registry has received a POLST form or revocation. The notification required by this section only applies if the POLST form or revocation contains contact information for the patient, patient’s personal representative, and health care provider. The notification shall inform the person to contact the Registry if any of the information on the POLST form or revocation is incorrect. 

 (10) Notification under section (9) of this rule shall be documented by the Registry and the documentation shall include the date of notification and who was notified. 

 (11) A person reporting information to the Registry in good faith is immune from any civil or criminal liability that might otherwise be incurred or imposed with respect to the reporting of information to the Registry. 

 (12) The Registry or any contractor that operates and maintains the Registry is not responsible for: 

 (a) Verifying the accuracy of the information on a POLST form or revocation submitted to the Registry, except as specified in section (8) of this rule; or 

 (b) Actions taken pursuant to information that was fraudulently submitted to the Registry. 

 NOTE: Practitioners may obtain POLST forms by contacting the Oregon Health and Science University at: polst@ohsu.edu or visiting www.oregonpolst.org 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 127.666 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 127.663-127.684 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 54-2024, minor correction filed 06/06/2024, effective 06/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2017, amend filed 10/13/2017, effective 10/13/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-3-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
