



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS 
 309-014-0037 
 Dispute Resolution 
 
 (1) The CMHP shall adopt a dispute resolution policy that pertains to disputes that may arise from contracts with service providers that deliver services funded by the Division for the CMHP. Procedures implementing this policy shall be included in the contract with any such service provider.  (2) When a dispute exists between a county or a CMHP and a service provider regarding the terms of their contract or the interpretation of an administrative rule of the Division relating to Division programs under ORS Chapter 430, and local dispute resolution efforts have been unsuccessful, either party may request assistance from the Division in mediating the dispute.  (a) Procedure. The parties shall demonstrate a spirit of cooperation, mutual respect, and good faith in all aspects of the mediation process. Mediation shall be conducted as follows:  (A) Request. The party requesting mediation shall send a written request to the Division Chief Officer, the CMHP director, and the provider agency director, unless other persons are named as official contact persons in the specific rule or contract under dispute. The request shall describe the nature of the dispute and identify the specific rule or contract provisions that are central to the dispute.  (B) Arrangements. The Chief Officer or designee, shall arrange the first meeting of the parties at the earliest possible date. The agenda for the first meeting should include:  (i) Consideration of the need for services of an outside mediator. If such services are desired, agreement should be made on arrangements for obtaining these services.  (ii) Development of rules and procedures that will be followed by all parties during the mediation;  (iii) Agreement on a date by which mediation will be completed, unless extended by mutual agreement.  (C) Cost. Unless otherwise agreed to by all parties:  (i) Each party shall be responsible for the compensation and expenses of their own employees and representatives; and  (ii) Costs that benefit the group, such as services of a mediator, rental of meeting space, purchase of snack food and beverage, etc. shall be shared equally by all parties.  (b) Final Report. A written statement documenting the outcome of the mediation shall be prepared. This statement shall consist of a brief written statement signed by all parties or separate statements from each party declaring their position on the dispute at the conclusion of the mediation process. In the absence of written statements from other parties, the Division representative shall prepare the final report. The final report on each mediation shall be retained on file at the Division. The Division will, from time to time, or as requested by the legislature or others, prepare summary reports that describe the success of mediation in resolving disputes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.610 – 430.640 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 23-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHD 13-2000, f. 9-15-00, cert. ef. 9-16-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHD 8-2000(Temp), f. 3-20-00, cert. ef. 3-21-00 thru 9-16-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
