



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 CARE OF PET AND CAPTIVE ANIMALS 
 603-015-0515 
 Crocodilians — Special Requirements
 
 
 (1) Animal Classification: 

 (a) Exotic crocodilians include all individuals of the order Crocodylia including but not limited to American Alligators and Crocodile Hybrids. 

 (2) Inside enclosure: The indoor enclosure should be constructed in such a way as to prevent escape of the animal. Latching clips and/or locks are required on doors and windows that open. The lid to the enclosure shall be well ventilated and may be covered with wire mesh, appropriate to the size of the animal, to prevent its escape. The enclosure area shall consist of a dry area and a water area. Both areas must be easily accessible by the animal. The area of the enclosure must be large enough such that the animal can turn around without its body touching any side and can perch its entire body on dry surface. The depth of the water shall be enough to fully submerge the animal. The temperature on the dry surface in the enclosure must be maintained between 75–90 degrees F. Ambient air temperature shall be kept between 75 to 90 degrees F. The water temperature must be maintained between 75–85 degrees F at all times. 

 (3) Outside enclosure: Crocodilians may be kept outside if weather conditions and ambient temperatures meet minimum temperatures as described for indoor enclosures, otherwise may only be outside during exercise regiment. When transporting the animal to and from outside it is required that the animal be carried in a secure portable container that encloses the animal completely. Fencing for outside enclosures must be of sufficient strength and height to prevent escape of the animal. Bottom of the fence must also be secure enough to prevent escape of the animal. Fencing must also prevent unauthorized persons and animals from entering the enclosure. 

 (4) Feeding: Owners must demonstrate knowledge of crocodilian nutrition. Exotic crocodilians must be fed a balanced diet sufficient to their needs but such food items may not include live animals. 

 (5) No exotic crocodilian may be restrained by a harness or muzzle as primary means of confinement. 

 (6) Security: In order to provide for the safety of the public, exotic crocodilians shall be handled in accordance with the following: 

 (a) All outside enclosures for exotic crocodilians shall be kept separate from the public in a way that prevents contact with animals or persons outside the enclosure. 

 (b) Exotic crocodilians shall be confined within their enclosures (inside and/or outside) and only allowed outside them for medical treatment or for removal to another approved facility. When being transported, the animal must be secured in a portable container within the vehicle. 

 (7) Sanitation: Excreta, uneaten food and any type of algae or debris shall be removed from enclosures (including the water pond) as often as necessary to prevent contamination of the food or water, reduce disease hazards and reduce odors. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 609 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  609.335 & ORS 609.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 39-2023, renumbered from 603-011-0706, filed 10/31/2023, effective 10/31/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 8-2010, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
