



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 COLLABORATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION MODEL RULES 
 137-005-0020 
 Assessment for Use of Collaborative DR Process 
 
 (1) Before instituting a collaborative dispute resolution process, the agency may conduct an assessment to determine if a collaborative process is appropriate for the controversy and, if so, under what conditions.  (2) A collaborative DR process may be appropriate if:  (a) The relationship between the parties will continue beyond the resolution of the controversy and a collaborative DR process is likely to have a favorable effect on the relationship;  (b) There are outcomes or solutions that are only available through a collaborative process;  (c) There is a reasonable likelihood that a collaborative process will result in an agreement;  (d) The implementation and durability of any resolution to the controversy will likely require ongoing, voluntary cooperation of the participants;  (e) A candid or confidential discussion among the disputants may help resolve the controversy, and OAR 137-005-0050 may provide for such candor or confidentiality;  (f) Direct negotiations between the parties have been unsuccessful or could be improved with the assistance of a collaborative DR provider;  (g) No single agency or jurisdiction has complete control over the issue and a collaborative process is likely to be effective in reconciling conflicts over jurisdiction and control; or  (h) The agency has limited time or other resources, and a collaborative process would use less agency resources, take less time or be more efficient than another type of process.  (3) A collaborative DR process may not be appropriate if:  (a) The outcome of the controversy is important for its precedential value, and a collaborative DR process is unlikely to be accepted as an authoritative precedent;  (b) There are significant unresolved legal issues in this controversy, and a collaborative DR process is unlikely to be effective if those legal issues are not resolved first;  (c) The controversy involves significant questions of agency policy, and it is unlikely that a collaborative DR process will help develop or clarify agency policy;  (d) Maintaining established policies and consistency among decisions is important, and a collaborative DR process likely would result in inconsistent outcomes for comparable matters;  (e) The controversy significantly affects persons or organizations who are not participants in the process or whose interests are not adequately represented by participants;  (f) A public record of the proceeding is important, and a collaborative DR process cannot provide such a record;  (g) The agency must maintain authority to alter the disposition of the matter because of changed circumstances, and a collaborative DR process would interfere with the agency’s ability to do so;  (h) The agency must act quickly or authoritatively to protect the public health or safety, and a collaborative dispute resolution process would not provide the necessary speed and authority to do this.  (i) The agency has limited time or other resources, and a collaborative process would use more agency resources, take longer or be less efficient than another type of process; or  (j) None of the factors in section (2) apply.  (4) The assessment may also be used to:  (a) Determine or clarify the nature of the controversy or the issues to be resolved;  (b) Match a dispute resolution process to the objectives and interests of the disputants;  (c) Determine who will participate in the process;  (d) Estimate the time and resources needed to implement a collaborative DR process;  (e) Assess the potential outcomes of a collaborative DR process and the desirability of those outcomes;  (f) Determine the likely means for enforcing any agreement or settlement that may result;  (g) Determine the compensation, if any, of the dispute resolution provider;  (h) Determine the ground rules for the collaborative DR process; and  (i) Determine the degree to which the parties and the agency wish, and are legally able, to keep the proceedings confidential.  (5) The agency may contract with a collaborative DR provider pursuant to OAR 137-005-0040 to assist the agency in conducting the assessment and may request that the provider prepare a written report summarizing the results of the assessment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 & 183.502 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.502 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 9-2001, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 10-1999, f. 12-23-99, cert. ef. 1-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 1-1997, f. 3-28-97, cert. ef. 4-1-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
