



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 POLE AND CONDUIT ATTACHMENTS 
 860-028-0100 
 Application Process for New or Modified Attachments 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, “applicant” does not include a government entity.  (2) An applicant requesting a new or modified attachment must submit an application providing the following information in writing or electronically to the owner:  (a) Information for contacting the applicant.  (b) The pole owner may require the applicant to provide the following technical information:  (A) Location of identifying pole or conduit for which the attachment is requested;  (B) The amount of space requested;  (C) The number and type of attachment for each pole or conduit;  (D) Physical characteristics of attachments;  (E) Attachment location on pole;  (F) Description of installation;  (G) Proposed route; and  (H) Proposed schedule for construction.  (3) The owner must provide written or electronic notice to the applicant within 15 days of the application receipt date confirming receipt and listing any deficiencies with the application, including missing information. If required information is missing, the owner may suspend processing the application until the missing information is provided.  (4) Upon receipt of a completed application, an owner must reply in writing or electronically to the applicant as quickly as possible and no later than 45 days from the date the completed application is received. The owner’s reply must state whether the application is approved, approved with modifications or conditions, or denied.  (a) An approval will be valid for 180 calendar days unless extended by the owner.  (b) The owner may require the applicant to provide notice of completion within 45 calendar days of completion of construction.  (c) If the owner approves an application that requires make ready work, the owner must provide a detailed list of the make ready work needed to accommodate the applicant’s facilities, an estimate for the time required for the make ready work, and the cost for such make ready work.  (d) If the owner denies the application, the owner must state in detail the reasons for its denial.  (e) If the owner does not provide the applicant with notice that the application is approved, denied, or conditioned within 45 days from its receipt, the applicant may begin installation. Applicant must provide notice prior to beginning installation. Commencement of installation by the occupant will not be construed as completion of the permitting process or as final permit approval. Unpermitted attachments made under this section are not subject to sanction under OAR 860-028-0140.  (5) If the owner approves an application that requires make ready work, the owner will perform such work at the applicant’s expense. This work must be completed in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. Where this work requires more than 45 days to complete, the parties must negotiate a mutually satisfactory longer period to complete the make ready work.  (6) If an owner cannot meet the time frame for attachment established by this rule, preconstruction activity and make ready work may be performed by a mutually acceptable third party.  (7) If an application involves more than the threshold number of poles, the parties must negotiate a mutually satisfactory longer time frame to complete the approval process. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756, 757 & 759 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 757.035, 757.270 - 290, 759.045 & 759.650 - 675 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-2007, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
