



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 INJURED WORKERS; DISABILITY; VETERANS AND PERSONS IN UNIFORMED SERVICES 
 839-006-0345 
 Assistance Animals in Places of Public Accommodation or of Access to State Government 
 
 (1) “Assistance animal” means a dog or other animal designated by administrative rule that has been individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual.  (2) “Assistance animal trainee” means an animal that is undergoing a course of development and training to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual that directly relate to the disability of the individual.  (3) “Assistance animal trainer” means an individual exercising care, custody and control over an assistance animal trainee during a course of training designed to develop the trainee into an assistance animal.  (4) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may not:  (a) Ask an individual about the nature or extent of a disability that the individual has or may have;  (b) Require an individual to provide documentation proving that an animal is an assistance animal or an assistance animal trainee; or  (c) Notwithstanding any fee or admission charge imposed for pets, require that a person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer pay a fee or admission charge for an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee.  (5) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may:  (a) Ask whether an animal is required due to a disability; and  (b) Ask about the nature of the work or task that an animal is trained to do or perform or is being trained to do or perform, unless it is readily apparent that the animal performs or is being trained to perform work or a task for the benefit of a person with a disability.  (6) If a place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities customarily charges a person for damages that the person causes to the place, the place may charge a person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer for damages that an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee causes to the place.  (7) A person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer must maintain control of an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee.  (a) Except as provided in this subsection, control shall be exerted by means of a harness, leash or other tether.  (b) If the use of a harness, leash or other tether would interfere with the ability of the animal to do the work or perform the tasks for which the animal is trained or is being trained, control may be exerted by the effective use of voice commands, signals or other means.  (c) If an animal is not under control as required in this subsection, a place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may consider the animal to be out of control for purposes of subsection (8) of this section.  (8)(a) Except as provided in this subsection, a place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may not deny a person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer the right to be accompanied by an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee in any area of the place that is open to the public or to business invitees.  (b) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may require a person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer to remove an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee if:  (A) The animal is not housebroken; or  (B) The animal is out of control and effective action is not taken to control the animal.  (c) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities may impose legitimate requirements necessary for the safe operations of the place of public accommodation or the services, programs or activities. The place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities shall ensure that the safety requirements are based on actual risks, not on speculation, stereotypes or generalizations about persons with disabilities.  (9) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities shall make reasonable modifications as necessary to allow an opportunity for a person with a disability who is benefited by the use of an assistance animal to obtain goods, services and the use of the advantages, facilities and privileges of the place or the advantages, facilities and privileges of the state government services, programs or activities. For purposes of this subsection, except as provided in subsections (5) and (7) of this section, in addition to any other applicable accommodation requirement, allowing the presence of the assistance animal is a reasonable modification.  (10) If a place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities requires a person with a disability to remove an assistance animal under subsection (8) of this section, the place or state government shall give the person with a disability a reasonable opportunity to obtain goods, services and the use of the advantages, facilities and privileges of the place or the advantages, facilities and privileges of the state government services, programs or activities without the assistance animal's presence.  (11) A place of public accommodation or of access to state government services, programs or activities is not required to provide care or supervision for an assistance animal or assistance animal trainee.  (12) The protection granted under this section to a person with a disability or an assistance animal trainer does not invalidate or limit the remedies, rights and procedures of any other federal, state or local laws that provide equal or greater protection of the rights of a person with a disability, an assistance animal trainer or individuals associated with a person with a disability. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 659A.805 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 659A.143 & 659A.400 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 12-2015, f. & cert. ef. 8-28-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 15-2013, f. & cert. ef 12-30-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
