



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 13 AIRPORT PLANNING 
 660-013-0100 
 Airport Uses at Non-Towered Airports 
 
 Local government shall adopt land use regulations for areas within the airport boundary of non-towered airports identified in ORS 836.610(1) that authorize the following uses and activities:  (1) Customary and usual aviation-related activities including but not limited to takeoffs, landings, aircraft hangars, tiedowns, construction and maintenance of airport facilities, fixed-base operator facilities, a residence for an airport caretaker or security officer, and other activities incidental to the normal operation of an airport. Residential, commercial, industrial, manufacturing, and other uses, except as provided in this rule, are not customary and usual aviation-related activities and may only be authorized pursuant to OAR 660-013-0110.  (2) Emergency Medical Flight Services, including activities, aircraft, accessory structures, and other facilities necessary to support emergency transportation for medical purposes. “Emergency Medical Flight Services” does not include hospitals, medical offices, medical labs, medical equipment sales, and similar uses.  (3) Law Enforcement and Firefighting Activities, including aircraft and ground based activities, facilities and accessory structures necessary to support federal, state or local law enforcement and land management agencies engaged in law enforcement or firefighting activities. These activities include transport of personnel, aerial observation, and transport of equipment, water, fire retardant and supplies.  (4) Flight Instruction, including activities, facilities, and accessory structures located at airport sites that provide education and training directly related to aeronautical activities. “Flight Instruction” does not include schools for flight attendants, ticket agents, or similar personnel.  (5) Aircraft Service, Maintenance and Training, including activities, facilities, and accessory structures provided to teach aircraft service and maintenance skills, maintain, service and repair aircraft and aircraft components, but not including activities, structures, and facilities for the manufacturing of aircraft for sale to the public or the manufacturing of aircraft related products for sale to the public. “Aircraft Service, Maintenance and Training” includes the construction of aircraft and aircraft components for personal use. The assembly of aircraft and aircraft components is allowed as part of servicing, maintaining, or repairing aircraft and aircraft components.  (6) Aircraft Rental, including activities, facilities, and accessory structures that support the provision of aircraft for rent or lease to the public.  (7) Aircraft Sales and the sale of aeronautic equipment and supplies, including activities, facilities, and accessory structures for the storage, display, demonstration and sale of aircraft and aeronautic equipment and supplies to the public.  (8) Aeronautic Recreational and Sporting Activities, including activities, facilities and accessory structures at airports that support recreational use of aircraft and sporting activities that require the use of aircraft or other devices used and intended for use in flight. Aeronautic Recreation and Sporting Activities on airport property shall be subject to approval of the airport sponsor. Aeronautic recreation and sporting activities include but are not limited to: fly-ins; glider flights; hot air ballooning; ultralight aircraft flights; displays of aircraft; aeronautic flight skills contests; gyrocopter flights; flights carrying parachutists; and parachute drops onto an airport. As used in this rule, parachuting and parachute drops includes all forms of skydiving. Parachuting businesses may be allowed only where they have secured approval to use a drop zone that is at least 10 contiguous acres. A local government may establish a larger size for the required drop zone where evidence of missed landings and dropped equipment supports the need for the larger area. The configuration of 10 acre minimum drop zone shall roughly approximate a square or circle and may contain structures, trees, or other obstacles if the remainder of the drop zone provides adequate areas for parachutists to safely land.  (9) Crop Dusting Activities, including activities, facilities and structures accessory to crop dusting operations. These include, but are not limited to: aerial application of chemicals, seed, fertilizer, pesticide, defoliant and other activities and chemicals used in a commercial agricultural, forestry or rangeland management setting.  (10) Agricultural and Forestry Activities, including activities, facilities and accessory structures that qualify as a “farm use” as defined in ORS 215.203 or “farming practice” as defined in ORS 30.930.  (11) Air passenger and air freight services and facilities at public use airports at levels consistent with the classification and needs identified in the state ASP. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 836.600 - 836.630 & 1997 OL & Ch. 859 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 3-1999, f. & cert. ef. 2-12-99 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 LCDC 6 -1996, f. & cert. ef. 12-23-96 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
