



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Long Term Care Ombudsman 
 Chapter 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 ACCESS, INVESTIGATION AND REPORTING PROCEDURES 
 114-005-0000 
 Access to Long-Term Care Facilities 
 
 (1) Upon entering a long-term care facility, the Ombudsman or designee shall present identification provided by the Ombudsman Program to the specified staff person and request that the Ombudsman or designee be directed to the person in charge. The Ombudsman or designee shall show I.D. to the person in charge. If the person in charge is not available, the Ombudsman or designee may proceed to fulfill the Ombudsman or designee’s duties.  (2) The Ombudsman or designee is not required to inform the long-term care facility of the specific nature of the visit. The Ombudsman or designee may generally inform the long term care facility as to whether or not the visit is a routine visit or complaint investigation, but shall not offer any information that would enable a person to determine the name of the complainant, witness or witnesses or alleged victims.  (3) The Ombudsman or designee is not required to give prior notification before visiting a long-term care facility.  (4) The Ombudsman or designee is not required to conform to any policy of a long-term care facility that in any way limits access rights established by ORS 441.117 and this rule.  (5) During any visit to a long-term care facility, the Ombudsman or designee shall have access, without accompaniment of long term care facility staff, to all public or common areas and to resident rooms with the consent of the resident or the resident’s legal guardian. For the purpose of investigating or resolving complaints, the Ombudsman or designee shall have access to laundry rooms, kitchens, linen closets, shower rooms and other service areas of a long term care facility that are relevant to any matter under investigation.  (6) The Ombudsman or designee may obtain access to a long-term care facility at any time considered necessary and reasonable by the Ombudsman or designee for the purpose of performing the duties of the Ombudsman or designee. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LTCO 1-1989, f. 1-19-89, cert. ef. 2-1-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
