



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 PUBLIC FACILITIES PLANNING 
 660-011-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Public Facilities Plan”: A public facility plan is a support document or documents to a comprehensive plan. The facility plan describes the water, sewer and transportation facilities which are to support the land uses designated in the appropriate acknowledged comprehensive plans within an urban growth boundary containing a population greater than 2,500. Certain elements of the public facility plan also shall be adopted as part of the comprehensive plan, as specified in OAR 660-011-0045.  (2) “Rough Cost Estimates”: Rough cost estimates are approximate costs expressed in current-year (year closest to the period of public facility plan development) dollars. It is not intended that project cost estimates be as exact as is required for budgeting purposes.  (3) “Short Term”: The short term is the period from year one through year five of the facility plan.  (4) “Long Term”: The long term is the period from year six through the remainder of the planning period.  (5) “Public Facility”: A public facility includes water, sewer, and transportation facilities, but does not include buildings, structures or equipment incidental to the direct operation of those facilities.  (6) “Public Facility Project”: A public facility project is the construction or reconstruction of a water, sewer, or transportation facility within a public facility system that is funded or utilized by members of the general public.  (7) “Public Facility Systems”: Public facility systems are those facilities of a particular type that combine to provide water, sewer or transportation services. For purposes of this division, public facility systems are limited to the following:  (a) Water:  (A) Sources of water;  (B) Treatment system;  (C) Storage system;  (D) Pumping system;  (E) Primary distribution system.  (b) Sanitary sewer:  (A) Treatment facilities system;  (B) Primary collection system.  (c) Storm sewer:  (A) Major drainageways (major trunk lines, streams, ditches, pump stations and retention basins);  (B) Outfall locations.  (d) Transportation:  (A) Freeway system, if planned for in the acknowledged comprehensive plan;  (B) Arterial system;  (C) Significant collector system;  (D) Bridge system (those on the Federal Bridge Inventory);  (E) Mass transit facilities if planned for in the acknowledged comprehensive plan, including purchase of new buses if total fleet is less than 200 buses, rail lines or transit stations associated with providing transit service to major transportation corridors and park and ride station;  (F) Airport facilities as identified in the current airport master plans;  (G) Bicycle paths if planned for in the acknowledged comprehensive plan.  (8) “Land Use Decisions”: In accordance with ORS 197.712(2)(e), project timing and financing provisions of public facility plans shall not be considered land use decisions as specified under ORS 197.015(10).  (9) “Urban Growth Management Agreement”: In accordance with OAR 660-003-0010(2)(c), and urban growth management agreement is a written statement, agreement or set of agreements setting forth the means by which a plan for management of the unincorporated area within the urban growth boundary will be completed and by which the urban growth boundary may be modified (unless the same information is incorporated in other acknowledged documents).  (10) Other Definitions: For the purposes of this division, the definitions in ORS 197.015 shall apply except as provided for in section (8) of this rule regarding the definition in ORS 197.015(10). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1984, f. & ef. 10-18-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
