



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Chapter 407 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 MEDICARE PART D AUTHORIZED DECISION MAKERS 
 407-050-0010 
 Authorized Decision Makers 
 
 (1) These rules only pertain to those Part D-eligible Individuals who receive benefits or services, which are provided by, operated by, authorized or funded by the Department. Those acting under the authority of this rule must do so with the express purpose of assisting the Part D-eligible Individual to obtain the Part C or D drug benefit that will appropriately meet their pharmaceutical needs and protect their health and safety.  (2) These rules only apply to those persons who can make decisions and take action on behalf of Part D-eligible Individuals for Medicare Part D Decisions.  (3) A Capable Part D-eligible Individual or their Individual Designee must be allowed to make all Medicare Part D Decisions.  (4) If the Part D-eligible Individual is incapable and has a Personal Representative, the Personal Representative must be allowed to make all Medicare Part D Decisions.  (5) If the Part D-eligible Individual is incapable and has an Individual Designee, the Individual Designee must be allowed to make Part D Decisions within the scope of their authority as a designee of the Part D-eligible Individual.  (6) If the Part D-eligible Individual is incapable and does not have an Individual Designee or Personal Representative, these rules authorize the first available person from the following list to be an Authorized Representative for the Part D-eligible Individual solely for the purpose of making Medicare Part D Decision, in order of priority:  (a) Closest Available Relative;  (b) Friend or Advocate;  (c) Department Case Manager/ Eligibility Specialist or Department Social Worker or designee named by the Department office responsible for enrollment;  (d) Owner, operator, or employee of a Department licensed or certified residential service, nursing home, foster home, or a Brokerage funded by the Department to provide Developmental Disability Support Services.  (7) The person acting under authority of OAR 407-050-0010(6)(c) or (d) must provide the Part D-eligible Individual a written copy of the enrollment or disenrollment decision that includes the name of the person making the decision and his or her relationship to the Part D-eligible Individual and a statement that if he or she does not agree with the decision, he or she may change the decision or request the assistance of a different person. The written notice must be retained in the individual’s file and made available to the Part D-eligible Individual upon request. In addition to providing the written information, this information may also be provided to the Part D-eligible Individual orally or in a manner that will effectively communicate with the individual.  (8) Medicare Part D Decisions by a person acting under authority of subsection (6) of these rules must be clearly guided by the Part D-eligible Individual's expressed wishes or in the Part D-eligible Individual's best interest in the drug benefit that will appropriately meet their pharmaceutical needs.  (9) An individual may not act as a Authorized Representative under subsection (6) of these rules or Individual Designee under subsection (5) of these rules if the individual or any entity from which that individual receives remuneration:  (a) Receives monetary remuneration or any other compensation from a pharmacy or a Part C or D plan based on Part C or D plan enrollment or post-enrollment activities;  (b) Makes Part C or D decisions for the benefit of a facility, pharmacy, or a plan; or  (c) Is an agent of a Medicare Part C or D plan.  (10) Any individual may be disqualified as acting as an Authorized Representative under subsection (6) or as an Individual Designee under subsection (5) of these rules by the Part D-eligible Individual, a court or hearing process or determination by the Department that an individual is disqualified based upon a substantiated finding of abuse or neglect.  (11) Nothing in this rule implies or authorizes an individual to act on behalf of another individual as a Health Care Representative as defined in OAR 309-041-1500.  (12) These rules do not impair or supersede the existing laws relating to:  (a) The right of a person has to make his or her own decisions;  (b) Health Care Representatives;  (c) Protective proceedings; or  (d) Powers of Attorney.  (13) The intent of these rules is to encourage ongoing review of these Part D Decisions during regularly scheduled service planning. Nothing in these rules should be construed to limit regular review procedures that may include prescription drug needs of the Part D-eligible Individual and their coverage under a Medicare Part C or D plan.  (14) If a dispute exists over the decision of incapability, over whom should be the Authorized Representative or over a decision made by an Authorized Representative, the Part D-eligible Individual's Department Case Manager/Eligibility Specialist and service planning team, which must include the Authorized Representative, must review the Part D Decision and make modifications as  necessary.  (15) If the dispute is not resolved by the Department Case Manager and service planning team, the dispute may be referred by any party to the Assistant Director of the Department’s Seniors and People with Disabilities cluster or designee. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 410.090, 411.116, 426.500 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.010, 410.250, 410.280, 410.020, 411.060, 426.490 & 430.630 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHSD 4-2006, f. & cert. ef. 5-26-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHSD 1-2005(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 11-28-05 thru 5-26-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
