



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 EGGS 
 603-022-0330 
 Oregon Consumer Grades for Shell Eggs 
 
 (1) At origin:  (a) Oregon Consumer Grade AA, or U.S. Consumer Grade AA (at origin), shall consist of eggs which are at least 87 percent AA quality. The maximum tolerance of 13 percent which may be below AA quality may consist of A or B quality in any combination, except that within the tolerance for B quality not more than one percent may be B quality due to air cells over 3/8 inch, blood spots (aggregating not more than 1/8 inch in diameter), or serious yolk defects. Not more than 5 percent (seven percent for Jumbo size) Checks are permitted and not more than 0.50 percent Leakers, Dirties or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination, except that such Loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (b) Oregon Consumer Grade A, or U.S. Consumer Grade A (at origin), shall consist of eggs which are at least 87 percent A quality or better. Within the maximum tolerance of 13 percent which may be below A quality, not more than one percent may be B quality due to air cells over 3/8 inch, blood spots (aggregating not more than 1/8 inch in diameter), or serious yolk defects. Not more than five percent (seven percent for Jumbo size) Checks are permitted and not more than 0.50 percent Leakers, Dirties, or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination, except that such Loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (c) Oregon Consumer Grade B, or U.S. Consumer Grade B (at origin), shall consist of eggs which are at least 90 percent B quality or better, not more than ten percent may be Checks and not more than 0.50 percent Leakers, Dirties, or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination, except that such Loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (2) At destination:  (a) Oregon Consumer Grade AA, or U.S. Consumer Grade AA (destination), shall consist of eggs which are at least 72 percent AA quality. The remaining tolerance of 28 percent shall consist of at least ten percent A quality and the remainder shall be B quality, except that within the tolerance for B quality not more than one percent may be B quality due to air cells over 3/8 inch, blood spots (aggregating not more than 1/8 inch in diameter), or serious yolk defects. Not more than seven percent (nine percent for Jumbo size) Checks are permitted and not more than 1 percent Leakers, Dirties, or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination except that such Loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (b) Oregon Consumer Grade A, or U.S. Consumer Grade A, (destination) shall consist of eggs which are at least 82 percent A quality or better. Within the maximum tolerance of 18 percent which may be below A quality, not more than one percent may be B quality due to air cells over 3/8 inch, blood spots (aggregating not more than 1/8 inch in diameter), or serious yolk defects. Not more than seven percent (nine percent for Jumbo size) Checks are permitted and not more than one percent Leakers, Dirties, or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination, except that such Loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (c) Oregon Consumer Grade B, or U.S. Consumer Grade B, (destination) shall consist of eggs which are at least 90 percent B quality or better, not more than ten percent may be Checks and not more than one percent Leakers, Dirties, or Loss (due to meat or blood spots) in any combination, except that such loss may not exceed 0.30 percent. Other types of Loss are not permitted.  (3) Additional tolerances:  (a) In lots of two or more cases:  (A) For Grade AA — No individual case may exceed ten percent less AA quality eggs than the minimum permitted for the lot average.  (B) For Grade A — No individual case may exceed ten percent less A quality eggs than the minimum permitted for the lot average.  (C) For Grade B — No individual case may exceed ten percent less B quality eggs than the minimum permitted for the lot average.  (b) For Grades AA, A, and B, no lot shall be rejected or downgraded due to the quality of a single egg except for Loss other than blood or meat spots. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 632 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 632.811 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 24-2004, f. & cert. ef. 10-28-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 7-1982, f. & ef. 7-9-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 977(10-72), f. 8-2-72, ef. 9-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
