



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 76 ESTABLISHMENT OF MINIMUM PERENNIAL STREAMFLOWS 
 690-076-0025 
 Information Base 
 
 (1) The Department and Commission shall consider the following information to the extent available, when evaluating applications:  (a) Items of information listed in OAR 690-076-0018(2) through (5);  (b) Water permits and rights of record and information pertaining to actual use of water;  (c) Existing instream uses;  (d) Stream gage records or estimates of flow;  (e) Existing water supply and water quality problems;  (f) Water needs for existing and planned beneficial uses and seasonal characteristics of water demands;  (g) Sources of water supply in the subbasin considering: groundwater, surface water, planned actions or potential for developing storage sites, conserving water, enhancing riparian zones and enhancing watershed yield;  (h) Basin water use programs;  (i) Statutory and administrative restrictions on water use;  (j) Acknowledged comprehensive land use plans;  (k) Benefits and values from existing and planned uses of surface water in the subbasin;  (l) Benefits and values of potential water uses.  (2) The Department and Commission may make reasonable assumptions or estimates for information when specific data are not readily available. Any assumptions or estimates used shall be stated for public review and may include but shall not be limited to:  (a) Monthly and annual runoff characteristics;  (b) Major sources of inflow to the stream;  (c) Characteristics of existing water use including frequency of use, evaporation and transpiration, opportunity for conservation and effects of use on streamflows;  (d) Potential sources of water supply;  (e) Amounts of water needed to supply potential beneficial water uses;  (f) Impact of land use and development on streamflow.  (3) The Commission will determine the adequacy of water supply at a minimum flow location for satisfying existing, planned and potential instream and out-of-stream uses. The Commission will consider the existing streamflow pattern. If there are shortages, the Commission will consider the plans and potential for developing supplies for both instream and out-of-stream needs. The Commission will only consider ground water a separate source if use is not likely to affect streamflow levels and is not in a critical groundwater area. Interbasin transfers may be considered as an additional water supply only if a project has been planned or constructed. The Commission will consider whether planned or potential out-of-stream use could reasonably be served by sources other than natural flow during periods of shortage. If the uses require natural flow, the Commission will evaluate the importance of the planned uses and both the importance and likelihood of potential uses. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 536 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 4-1986, f. & ef. 4-28-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1984, f. & ef. 6-25-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 7-1983(Temp), f. & ef. 11-15-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
