



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 78 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS FOR CHEMICAL PROCESS MINING 
 690-078-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply in this division and to any permits or certificates issued under these rules:  (1) “Chemical Process Mining” means a mining and processing operation for metal bearing ores that uses chemicals to dissolve metals from ore.  (2) “Commission” means Oregon Water Resources Commission.  (3) “Consolidated Application” means the single application filed with the Department of Geology and Mineral Industries as required under Section 13, Chapter 735, 1991 Oregon Laws.  (4) “Cooperating Agency” means an agency that has statutory responsibility related to a chemical process mine but that does not issue a permit for the mining process.  (5) “Department” means Oregon Water Resources Department.  (6) “DOGAMI” means Department of Geology and Mineral Industries.  (7) “Environmental Evaluation” means an analysis of specific impacts of the chemical process mine operation that allow affected agencies to develop permit conditions.  (8) “Permitting Agency” means an agency that has a separate permitting authority for some element of a chemical process mine.  (9) “Project Coordinating Committee” means the interagency governmental committee that shares information and coordinates county, state and federal permitting requirements, facilitates the exchange of ideas, optimizes communication and avoids duplicate effort.  (10) “Suspension of Water Use Permit” means that water cannot be appropriated under a permit or certificate issued under these rules because the operator of the mine has not increased the bond to cover the additional reclamation costs. The suspension will be lifted when the operator posts the additional bond security.  (11) “Technical Review Team” means the interagency governmental committee that determines baseline data methodology guidelines and coordinates the use of the data. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 735 & 1991 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-1992, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
