



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING —  PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
 411-087-0460 
 Water Supply, Sewage Disposal, and Other Piping Systems 
 
 (1) Plumbing System. All interior plumbing systems shall be installed and maintained in conformance with the State Plumbing Code which was current at the time of construction, municipal or county ordinances and to the rules of the Building Codes Division governing the installation of interior supplies in buildings:  (a) The material used for plumbing fixtures shall be of nonabsorbent acid-resistant material;  (b) Hot water heaters and tanks:  (A) The hot water heating equipment shall have sufficient capacity to supply water at sinks, showers, and tubs at 105 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Hot water supply in these areas shall not exceed 120 degrees Fahrenheit and not be less than 100 degrees Fahrenheit;  (B) The hot water heating equipment shall have sufficient capacity to provide water in the laundry and dietary areas at a minimum temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit;  (C) Storage tank(s) shall be fabricated of corrosion-resistant metal or lined with noncorrosive material.  (c) Drainage systems. Insofar as possible, draining piping shall not be installed within the ceiling nor installed in an exposed location in food preparation centers, food serving facilities, food storage areas, and other critical areas. Special precautions shall be taken to protect these areas from possible leakage or condensation from necessary overhead piping systems;  (d) Nonflammable medical gas systems. If used, nonflammable medical gas system installations shall conform to the requirements of NFPA 99, Chapter 4, 1990 Edition;  (e) Clinical vacuum (suction) systems. If used, clinical vacuum system installations shall be in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 99, Chapter 4, 1990 Edition;  (f) Identification. All piping in the heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC) and service water systems shall be color coded or otherwise marked for easy identification.  (2) Water Supply. Hot and cold water, safe, sanitary and suitable for domestic use, shall be distributed at 20 pounds per square inch pressure or greater to conveniently located taps throughout the building. When the water supply is not obtained from the community water supply system and an independent supply is used, such water supply shall be in compliance with the Health Division Administrative Rules.  (3) Sewage and Wastewater:  (a) All sewage and liquid wastes shall be disposed of in a municipal sewer system if such facilities are available. When a municipal sewer system is not available, sewage and liquid wastes shall be collected, treated, and disposed of in an independent sewer system which conforms to the applicable minimum standards of the Department of Environmental Quality;  (b) All drainage and other arrangements for the disposal of excreta, infectious discharges, institutional and kitchen wastes shall conform to the State Plumbing Code, municipal or county ordinances, and to the rules of the State Health Division and the Department of Environmental Quality.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 22-1991, f. 12-31-91, cert. ef. 1-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
