



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Public Employees Retirement System 
 Chapter 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS 
 459-045-0012 
 OPSRP Pension Program Division of Benefits
 
 
 (1) A final court order that provides for a division of pension benefits or disability benefits must use a method described in this rule. The PERS divorce forms provide all available benefit division options, conditions, and restrictions and may not be altered. 

 (a) The method must be provided on PERS divorce forms. Directions to PERS not included on existing forms will not be accepted as administrable. 

 (b) The PERS divorce forms must be attached as labeled exhibits to the court order, and incorporated by reference in the court order. 

 (2) Award of Pension Benefits (Non-Retired Member). If a final court order awards an alternate payee a reduction or deduction amount from the monthly pension benefit that shall be paid in the future to the member, a court order must provide: 

 (a) Whether the award is a reduction or deduction from the member’s monthly pension. If the award is a reduction, the court order must provide whether the alternate payee is eligible to elect a separate benefit option at any time after the member reaches earliest retirement eligibility. 

 (b) The method by which the monthly award is to be calculated. One of the following methods must be used: 

 (A) A percentage, expressed with up to two decimal points; or 

 (B) A dollar amount; or 

 (C)A percentage of the married time ratio. If this method is used, the court order must provide: 

 (i) The percentage, expressed with up to two decimal points; and 

 (ii) The starting and ending date of retirement credit accrued by the member during a specified period or while married to the alternate payee. 

 (c) If there is a specific end date or dollar amount limit to the award, and what that date or limit is. 

 (d) If not taken as a separate benefit, whether the member must select a specific benefit payment option at retirement. 

 (e) Whether the court order designates the alternate payee as beneficiary to receive a percentage of any pre-retirement death benefit pursuant to ORS 238A.230. 

 (f) If not taken as a separate benefit, whether the alternate payee award continues or ends after the member retires if: 

 (A) The member dies before the alternate payee and the member’s beneficiary is not the alternate payee. 

 (B) If the alternate payee dies before the member. 

 (g) Whether the member is restricted from withdrawing from IAP which cancels OPSRP membership. 

 (h) If not taken as a separate benefit, whether the member is required to designate the alternate payee as beneficiary at retirement. 

 (3) Award of Pension Benefits (Retired Member). If a final court order awards an alternate payee an amount to be paid from a retired member’s monthly pension, the court order must provide: 

 (a) Whether the award is a reduction or deduction from the member’s monthly pension. 

 (b) The method by which the monthly award is to be calculated. One of the following methods must be used: 

 (A) A percentage, expressed with up to two decimal points; or 

 (B) A dollar amount. 

 (c) If there is a specific end date or dollar amount limit to the award, and what that date or limit is. 

 (d) Whether the member may change the beneficiary designation. If the member’s beneficiary is changed, the member’s pension must be recalculated. 

 (e) Whether a member, who elected to receive their pension under ORS 238A.190(1)(b) or (d), is restricted from receiving the higher pension benefit under ORS 238A.190(2)(b). 

 (f) Whether the alternate payee will be the sole beneficiary or any remaining share not awarded to the alternate payee shall be paid to the member’s secondary beneficiary if the member dies before the alternate payee and the alternate payee was the member’s beneficiary. 

 (g) Whether an alternate payee award continues or ends if: 

 (A) The member dies before the alternate payee and the member’s beneficiary is not the alternate payee. 

 (B) The alternate payee dies before the member. 

 (4) Award of Disability Benefits. If a final court order awards an alternate payee an amount to be paid from the monthly disability benefit that is being paid or may be paid in the future to the member, the court order must provide: 

 (a) The date of annulment, separation, divorce, or property settlement. If no date is provided, PERS will use the date the judge signed the court order. 

 (b) Whether the award is a reduction or deduction from the member’s monthly disability benefit. 

 (c) The method by which the monthly award is to be calculated. One of the following methods must be used: 

 (A) A percentage, expressed with up to two decimal points; or 

 (B) A dollar amount; or 

 (C) A percentage of the married time ratio. If this method is used, the court order must provide: 

 (i) The percentage, expressed with up to two decimal points; and 

 (ii) The starting and ending date of retirement credit accrued by the member during a specified period or while married to the alternate payee. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 238.465, ORS 238.650 & ORS 238A.450 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 238.465 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 11-2025, amend filed 09/26/2025, effective 09/26/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 5-2021, amend filed 07/23/2021, effective 07/23/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 4-2010, f. & cert. ef. 5-28-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
