



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT 
 137-090-0200 
 File Index Number System 
 
 (1) General Information:  (a) The CIU’s criminal intelligence files are indexed according to a modified Dewey Decimal System. In the CIU’s system, file categories and sub-categories are separated by decimal points;  (b) File categories are created or deleted at the request of CIU personnel as needs arise for more crime topic areas. The list of authorized crime topics is always in a state of change. A request for a change in the index system is first brought to the attention of the CIUS through the use of the memorandum. If approved by the CIUS, the index system is altered to reflect the change and an updated file index list is distributed to all CIU personnel possessing copies of file guidelines.  (2) Crime Topic:  (a) Crime topics are those authorized for collection, storage, and dissemination according to the mission of the CIU. The crime topics list is classified confidential and is not to be duplicated or released outside the CIU without the express authorization of the CIUS. The list is for official staff use only;  (b) The crime topics list is not to be removed from the CIU file room without the approval of the CIUS.  (3) Use of Index Numbers: The file category, general, is only used when there is insufficient data available to indicate a more specific index selection.  (4) Spread of Index Numbers: The index system is displayed as several independent groupings of numbers separated by decimal points. The following defines the various groupings.  (a) Group 1 (Mission): Index numbers in the first position represent the subject of the file. As examples are the following: 10. Political Corruption; 20. Major Financial Crimes; 30. Traditional Organized Crime; 40. Emerging Criminal Gangs and Street Gangs; 50. General;  (b) Group 2 (Crime Group): Index numbers in the second position represent documented, definable criminal organizations.  (b) Group 3 (Crime): Index numbers in the third position represent crime the subject is involved in;  (c) Group 4 (Geographic Assignment): Index numbers in the fourth position represent geographic areas;  (d) Group 5 (File Position): Index numbers in this last group represent the document’s position in the file. The numbers are assigned chronologically. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.610(2), (3) & (4) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2000, f. & cert. ef. 8-9-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 2-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
