



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0305 
 Approval Criteria of the Commission for Authorizing Receiving Tracks 
 
 The Oregon Racing Commission will use the following criteria to approve Oregon tracks (race meet licensees) to receive out-of-state simulcast signals.  (1) During Live Race Meet. The Oregon track must be conducting a live race meet during the time in which it is requesting to simulcast in the out-of-state races. The commission will use calendar weeks in determining if a race meet is being conducted by the track during the time that the simulcasting of out-of-state racing is being requested.  (2) Consent. A race meet that wishes to simulcast in races from out-of-state must receive the consent from the organization which represents the majority of the persons who race animals at the meet. If in the opinion of the commission this consent is being unreasonably withheld the commission may waive this requirement.  (3) Purses. An application for simulcasting must include a method for protecting purses at the live meet from the effects of simulcasting. Unless otherwise approved by the commission or a different agreement is reached pursuant to the consent requirement set out in section (2) of this rule, the commission will require that purses shall be paid as a percentage of total handle (live+simulcast).  (4) Live Signals. A race meet authorized to simulcast must send its live signal to all off-track outlets. The off-track outlets must accept the signal of any Oregon track which simulcasts its live signal to the exclusion of any out-of-state signal.  (5) Singularity of Importing Race Meets. The commission will not approve more than one Oregon race meet to import out-of-state signals during the same day(s).  (6) Allocation of Simulcast Dates. On a date set during January of each year, the commission will accept and consider proposals to simulcast submitted by commercial race meets scheduled to begin during that calendar year. For race meets which have not yet received a license to run a live meet during that year, any authorization to simulcast will be subject to the receipt and approval of an application for a race meet license. In the event the commission receives more than one proposal to simulcast during the same period of time, preference will be given to the best overall proposal. Consideration will be given to all factors the commission deems relevant, including but not limited to: the number of live performances, history and financial strength of its principals and licensees, and the quality of the race meet facility. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.700 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.710(6) & 462.720 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 5-2000, f. & cert. ef. 9-28-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 4-2000, f. & cert. ef. 5-22-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
