



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Public Employees Retirement System 
 Chapter 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 JUDGE MEMBER PROGRAM 
 459-040-0070 
 Judge Member Death After Retirement 
 
 If a judge member dies after the effective retirement date, benefits shall be distributed and calculated as follows:  (1) Surviving Spouse Standard Two-thirds Benefit. The surviving spouse of a judge member shall receive a life pension equal to two-thirds of the service retirement allowance the judge member is receiving or is entitled to receive on the date of death.  (2) Additional benefit for surviving spouse. The surviving spouse may be entitled to an addition to the pension described in section (1) of this rule if:  (a) The judge member selected a reduced retirement allowance under ORS 238.565(4); and  (b) The surviving spouse is the spouse of record on the effective date of retirement.  (3) No surviving spouse. If the judge member has no surviving spouse and the total amount of retirement allowance received by the retired judge member is less than the amount credited to the judge member account on the judge member’s effective retirement date, the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the remainder.  (4) Death of surviving spouse. If a surviving spouse receiving a pension under section (1) of this rule dies and the total amount received as retirement allowance by the retired judge member and as pension by the surviving spouse is less than the amount credited to the judge member account on the effective date of retirement of the judge member, the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of the judge member shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the remainder.  (5) Default beneficiary. If the judge member has no valid written designation of beneficiary form filed with the PERS Board before the judge member’s death, the beneficiary of the judge member shall be the personal representative of the judge member’s estate.  (6) Unpaid accrued retirement allowance. Any accrued retirement allowance due a retired judge member that is unpaid at the time of death of the judge member shall be paid as follows:  (a) To the surviving spouse of the judge member;  (b) If there is no surviving spouse of the judge member, to the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the judge member; or  (c) If there is no surviving spouse or beneficiary of the judge member, in the manner provided for payments under ORS 238.390(2).  (7) If the judge member, under the provisions of ORS 238.565(8), elects to have a portion of the pension payable to a surviving spouse paid to a former spouse, the designated portion shall be paid to the former spouse as a life pension. The portion of the pension not paid to the former spouse shall be paid to the surviving spouse, if any.  (a) The life of the first former spouse designated to receive a pension under ORS 238.565(8) will be the measuring life of the pensions payable to the surviving spouse and to any other former spouse.  (b) Upon the death of the first designated former spouse, the pensions payable to the surviving spouse and to any other former spouse shall cease.  (c) If, at the death of the first designated former spouse, the total amount of the payments received by the retired judge member and the payments received by the surviving spouse and former spouse(s) is less than the amount credited to the deceased judge member’s account on the judge member’s effective retirement date, the judge member’s designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the remainder. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 238.650 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 238.565 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 12-2013, f. & cert. ef. 11-22-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 11-2007, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
