



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING COUNCIL 
 839-011-0143 
 Apprenticeship and Training Committees — Ratio and Supervision 
 
 (1) Registered apprentices shall only work for training agents registered to the same committee as the apprentice, unless the subject committees and employer have reached agreement on a plan that will enhance the training opportunities for all apprentices and have jointly submitted a written request to the Council outlining their plan and requesting the exemption from this rule.  (2) Except as provided in sections (6) and (7) below, registered apprentices shall be supervised by journey workers employed in the same trade or occupation by the same training agent employing the apprentice.  (3) The apprentice to journey worker ratio for any registered program approved by the Council and the Division shall be clearly set forth in the standards for the given occupation and must be specific as to application in terms of jobsite, workforce, shift, department or plant.  (4) The maximum ratio of apprentices to journey workers for an occupation covered by a state committee will be developed as part of the minimum guideline standards for the occupation. Requests for a less restrictive ratio from local committees will be referred to the state committee for evaluation of minimum guideline ratio.  (5) For occupations where a minimum guideline standard is not in place, local committees are expected to meet the following apprentice to journey level ratios:  (a) Construction trades: Not more than one apprentice for the first journey worker on the job site. Additional apprentices are authorized at the ratio of one apprentice for each three additional journey workers on the job site. (Expressed hereafter as 1:1,1:3)  (b) Industrial trades and fixed-site facilities: 1:1,1:2  (c) Other trades (non-traditional and new and emerging occupations): 1:1,1:1  (d) Committees wishing a less restrictive ratio must submit a request to the Council for consideration, along with information including but not limited to:  (A) Specific workforce demographics justifying a different ratio;  (B) Plan to monitor effects of ratio on the safety and continuity of employment for apprentices; and  (C) Comparison of completion rate to statewide average for occupation.  (6) In licensed trades, an apprentice must be supervised by a journey worker in the same or a higher license classification than the apprentice, unless the local committee that the apprentice is registered to has approved supervision by a journey worker holding a license covering the specific work being performed by the apprentice on the job site.  (7) Electrical power line installers and repairers and linemen apprentices may work for training agents registered to other local joint committees in order to ensure that all work processes are fulfilled, pursuant to a written agreement between the apprentice, the local committees and both training agents.  (8) In limited situations, the Council may grant a training agent a short-term waiver of the established ratio for a given program, upon demonstration of extreme need. In no event shall an apprentice work without qualified journey worker supervision. Ratio waivers of less than 90 days must be requested by the committee on behalf of a training agent. Local committees are not authorized to grant temporary waivers to training agents. A temporary waiver of ratio may be granted under the following circumstances:  (a) Serious injury or illness of the journey worker, where the journey worker is expected to return to work in 90 days or less; or  (b) The sudden departure of a journey worker from employment with the training agent for causes not attributable to the training agent. The employer is expected to replace the departing journey worker within a reasonable amount of time and in no event shall this amount of time exceed ninety (90) days. The training agent must document its efforts to replace journey workers which may include, but shall not be limited to:  (A) Copies of job orders;  (B) Classified advertising, including a posting of the journey wage rate offered; and  (C) Job orders placed with the Oregon Employment Division.  (9 The lack of available qualified or licensed journey workers shall not be a valid reason for granting a temporary ratio waiver.  (10) The Council may authorize the Director to grant or deny waivers as set forth above on an interim basis. Such action taken by the Director must be submitted to the Council for ratification at its next meeting after interim approval or denial has been made. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 660.120(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 660.120(2) & 660.126(1)(f) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 15-2015, f. & cert. ef. 11-12-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 6-2015(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 6-1-15 thru 11-27-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 1-2012, f. & cert. ef. 1-3-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 5-2011(Temp), f. 7-13-11, cert. ef. 7-18-11 thru 1-4-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 18-2010, f. 7-29-10, cert. ef. 8-1-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
