



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 Media Relations 
 416-060-0035 
 Media Access to Youth in Custody in Substitute Care
 
 
 (1) Media Representatives who desire contact with a Youth in Custody may seek such contact by contacting the OYA Communications Office. In all cases, Youth in Custody participation is voluntary. 
(2) Interviews with Youth in Custody in Substitute Care may be approved by the OYA Communications Office and the Field Supervisor or designee, with the Youth in Custody’s consent, if in the Field Supervisor’s or designee’s judgment the interview is consistent with the following: 
(a) OYA’s mission and goals; 
(b) The Youth in Custody’s treatment planning and reformation; and  
(c) The Substitute Care Provider’s safe, secure and orderly operations. 
(3) Interviews with Youth in Custody younger than 18 may be approved in accordance with section (2) above, and with written permission of the Youth in Custody’s parent(s) or legal guardian(s).  
(4) Conducting the interview 
(a) The interview must be supervised by the Substitute Care Provider or OYA and take place in a designated area approved by the Substitute Care Provider and the Field Supervisor or designee. 
(b) OYA may set reasonable limits for the length of the interview. 
(c) Requests for Youth in Custody to participate in a recorded or live audience participation show generally will be denied. Exceptions may be made only if approved in advance by the OYA Communications Office and the Field Supervisor. 
(d) Other program or staff access separate from the interview may be granted with the approval of the OYA Communications Office, Field Supervisor or designee, and Substitute Care Provider. 
(5) Youth in Custody may not accept payment or remuneration for themselves or family members for agreeing to an interview or participating in a media-related activity. 
(6) Youth in Custody may not use the news media or enter into agreements with the news media to pass along messages or otherwise communicate with their families, victims, or any person other than the general reading, viewing or listening audience.  
(7) Media Representatives may not accompany a visitor, attorney or others on a visit to a Youth in Custody in a Substitute Care Placement. Exceptions may be made by the OYA Communications Office and the Field Supervisor in extraordinary circumstances in their sole discretion.  
(8) Media Representatives may not attend depositions of Youth in Custody in Substitute Care Placement. 
(9) Youth in Custody in the community outside of Substitute Care Placements may be interviewed or photographed in the community (e.g., while playing high school sports) without reference to their OYA involvement. No OYA approval is required. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420A.010 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 5-2022, amend filed 09/06/2022, effective 09/06/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 5-2010, f. 10-14-10, cert. ef. 10-25-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
