



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 STATE AGENCY COORDINATION PROGRAM 
 738-130-0045 
 Coordination Procedures for Adopting Final Oregon Aviation Plan 
 
 (1) Except in the case of minor amendments, the Department shall involve DLCD, metropolitan planning organizations, and interested cities, counties, state and federal agencies, special districts and other parties in the development or amendment of a Oregon Aviation Plan. This involvement may take the form of mailings, meeting, or other means that the Department determines are appropriate for the circumstances. The Department shall hold at least one public meeting on the plan prior to adoption.  (2) The Department shall evaluate and write draft findings of compliance with all applicable statewide planning goals.  (3) If the draft plan identifies new facilities which would affect identifiable geographic areas, the Department shall meet with the planning representatives of affected cities, counties and metropolitan planning organization to identify compatibility issues and the means of resolving them. These may include:  (a) Changing the draft plan to eliminate the conflicts;  (b) Working with the affected local governments to amend their comprehensive plans to eliminate the conflicts; or  (c) Identifying the new facilities as proposals which are contingent on the resolution of the conflicts prior to the completion of the transportation planning program for the proposed new facilities.  (4) The Department shall present to the Aviation Board the draft plan, findings of compatibility for new facilities affecting identifiable geographic areas, and findings of compliance with all applicable statewide planning goals.  (5) The Aviation Board, when it adopts a final Oregon Aviation Plan, shall adopt findings of compatibility for new facilities affecting identifiable geographic areas and findings of compliance with all applicable statewide planning goals.  (6) The Department shall provide copies of the adopted final Oregon Aviation Plan and findings to DLCD, the metropolitan planning organizations, and others who request to receive a copy. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035 & 835.112 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2015, f. & cert. ef. 7-28-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
