



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-1150 
 Trailer Hoists 
 
 (1) All trailer loading devices must be designed, constructed and maintained so as to have a five-to-one safety factor for the rated load capacity.  (2) Trailer loading hoists must be high and wide enough so they can safely load the maximum-sized trailers they are expected to handle without hanging up or striking the equipment.  (3) Trailer-loading-hoist controls (buttons) must have clear marking to indicating the "up" and "down" directions of travel.  (4) Trailer loading hoists must have an upper limit switch installed and maintained to prevent the hook or other end fittings from contacting the upper sheaves. In addition:  (a) The upper limit switch must not be used as an operating control.  (b) If the upper limit switch does not function properly, the hoist must not be used until repairs are made.  (5) Electric-powered trailer loading hoist controls (buttons) connected to flexible cords (pendant lines) must be secured with devices or fittings that prevents pull from being directly transmitted to joints or terminal screws.  (6) Pendants must be installed so that the control switch does not touch the ground when retracted.  (7) All electrical equipment must be weatherproof-type or adequately protected from the weather, and must meet or exceed the requirements of the National Electrical Code.  (8) Electric-powered hoists using handheld cord remote controls in grounded locations must be actuated by circuits operating at less than 50 volts to ground.  (9) Trailer loading hoists, except A-frames or bridge cranes, must be equipped with reach guides or devices that will keep the reach in proper alignment.  (10) A tag rope or other safe guidance device must be used to guide trailers being loaded by A-frame loaders.  (11) The maximum capacity that can be lifted by the trailer loader hoist must be posted in a conspicuous location where it can be easily seen by any person operating the hoist.  (12) Trailer loading hoists must be inspected at least every 30 days and must be maintained in good repair.  (13) A written trailer loading hoist inspection report signed by the person making the inspection must be kept on file by the company for 12 months.  (14) The employer must do an annual lifting test on each loading device and keep a written record of the tests.  (a) The written record must contain the:  (A) Date of the test.  (B) Name of person conducting the test.  (C) Amount of weight lifted.  (b) The written record of test results must be kept in the office of the employer or at the site.  (c) The test weight must not be:  (A) Less than 125 percent of the maximum rated load.  (B) More than 130 percent of the maximum rated load.  (15) Each trailer loading hoist drum must be designed and arranged so the hoisting line will maintain lead and spool evenly without chafing, crossing, or kinking.  (16) A braking system must be installed on trailer loading hoists that has the ability to safely brake and hold 1 1/2 times the weight of the full rated load. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
