



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of the State Fire Marshal 
 Chapter 837 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 42 OREGON FIRE CODE ADVISORY BOARD 
 837-042-1200 
 Membership 
 
 (1) The Oregon Fire Code Advisory Board shall consist of members broadly representative of the industries, associations, and professions involved in the development and implementation of the Oregon Fire Code and Oregon Structural Code, including: 

 (a) A representative of the Oregon Fire Chiefs Association; 

 (b) Two representatives of the Oregon Fire Marshals Association; 

 (c) A representative of the Oregon Building Codes Division; 

 (d) A design professional; 

 (e) A representative of business or industry; and 

 (f) A public member at large. 

 (2) Applying for an appointment to the Oregon Fire Code Advisory Board. 

 (a) Board members from stakeholder groups may serve two consecutive 3-year terms; however, initial terms may be adjusted to ensure board stability. 

 (b) An interest form must be submitted to the Department of the State Fire Marshal in order to be considered for an appointment to the board. 

 (c) Any interested person may submit a completed interest form to the Department of the State Fire Marshal in order to apply for an appointment to the Oregon Fire Code Advisory Board. 

 (d) Interest forms are available on the Department of the State Fire Marshal website or by email upon request. 

 (e) Completed interest forms will be kept on file for a period of two years for future consideration. Interest forms will be destroyed after two years have elapsed from the date the form was received by the Department of the State Fire Marshal. 

 (f) The Department of the State Fire Marshal will acknowledge receipt of each completed interest form. 

 (3) Vacancies. 

 (a) A vacancy exists when a board member subject to this rule completes the term for that position: resigns; becomes incapacitated, or is otherwise incapable of performing the duties of a member; has been removed from the appointment for just cause; is not reappointed; is no longer employed in the position that the appointment represents; or is no longer affiliated with the association or organization that the appointment represents. 

 (b) Any vacancy subject to this rule will be filled in the same manner as an initial appointment. 

 (c) The Department of the State Fire Marshal will work in consultation with the employer, association or organization that the vacancy represents to identify a replacement member. The employer’s, association's, or organization’s recommendation will be forwarded to the board administrator for consideration and recommendation to the full board. 

 (4) The board’s decisions regarding an appointment to an Oregon Fire Code Advisory Board are final and are not subject to appeal. 

 (5) The chairperson or board administrator of the board may remove an appointed member for just cause. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 476.030 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 476.030 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 43-2023, minor correction filed 07/03/2023, effective 07/03/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 11-2019, adopt filed 12/29/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
