



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-0055 
 Objectives of Warmwater Game Fish Management 
 
 The Department shall proceed with programs and other efforts to achieve the following statewide objectives, consistent with applicable law, agency policy and rule, and recognized funding priorities for the agency. The Warmwater Game Fish Management Plan will provide specific guidance for the production, harvest and management of warmwater game fish statewide, consistent with these objectives:  (1) Provide diversity of angling opportunities, including opportunities for:  (a) Trophy angling. Management for trophy angling will emphasize low harvest and maintenance of large fish in the populations;  (b) Quality angling. Management for quality angling will promote above average sizes and moderate regulation;  (c) High yield angling. Management for high yield angling will promote harvest for consumption;  (d) Basic yield angling. Management for basic yield angling will be low key, with minimal regulation and little intervention in natural processes.  (2) Expand distribution by stocking warmwater species where habitat is suitable and expansion is consistent with fish management programs, including:  (a) Developing additional warmwater fisheries where suitable habitat is identified;  (b) Evaluating predators and forage fishes to fulfill existing biological needs;  (c) Developing additional two-story (e.g., warmwater-trout) fisheries, consistent with fish introduction guidelines;  (d) Developing sources of artificially propagated fishes to meet needs for stocking of warmwater game fish;  (e) Developing other source than artificial propagation to supply fishes for stocking, including transfer of wild fish from public waters or established of populations in private ponds for stocking;  (f) Introduction of species not now found in Oregon which can be used more effectively than indigenous species to manage some waters, consistent with fish introduction guidelines.  (3) Increasing angling opportunities and use of warmwater species where desirable, including:  (a) Directing angling effort toward increased use of yellow perch, bluegill, bullheads, and crappies;  (b) Increasing angling opportunities statewide, particularly bank angling in the Portland to Cottage Grove corridor.  (4) Maintain, restore, and enhance populations of warmwater game fishes in individual waters, including:  (a) Preventing declines in existing fisheries;  (b) Improving fisheries not meeting management plan objectives;  (c) Improving performance of warmwater game fishes under Oregon conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496 & 506 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 77-1987, f. & ef 9-15-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
