



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 PROGRAM OF ALL-INCLUSIVE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE) 
 411-045-0070 
 Access to Care 
 
 (1) PACE programs will develop written policies and procedures for communicating with, and providing care to PACE participants who have difficulty communicating due to a medical condition or who are living in a household where there is no adult available to communicate in English or where there is no telephone. Such policies and procedures will address the provision of qualified interpreter services by phone or in person in the PACE Center, PACE administrative offices, and participant's residence.  (2) PACE programs will provide or ensure the provision of qualified interpreter services for covered medical, mental health or dental care visits, including home health visits and after hours emergency calls, to interpret for persons with hearing impairment or in the primary language of non-English speaking PACE participants.  (a) Interpreters must be linguistically appropriate and be capable of communicating in English and the primary language of the PACE participant and be able to translate clinical information effectively. Interpreter services must be sufficient for the provider to be able to understand the PACE participant's grievance; to make a diagnosis; respond to a participant's questions and concerns; and to communicate instructions to the PACE participant; and  (b) Interpreters must be culturally appropriate, i.e., demonstrating both awareness for and sensitivity to cultural differences and similarities and the effect of those on the medical care of the PACE participant.  (3) PACE programs must have written policies and procedures that ensure compliance with requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 in providing access to covered services for all PACE participants and must arrange for services to be provided by non-participating referral providers when necessary:  (a) The policies and procedures must include the assurance of appropriate physical access to obtain covered services for all PACE participants including, but not limited to the following:  (A) Street level access or accessible ramp into facility;  (B) Wheelchair access to lavatory;  (C) Wheelchair access to examination room; and  (D) Doors with levered hardware or other special adaptations for wheelchair access.  (b) PACE programs must ensure that providers, their facilities and personnel are prepared to meet the special needs of PACE participants who require accommodations because of a disability. PACE programs must monitor providers for compliance with ADA and take corrective action, when necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.090 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 2-2005, f. & cert. ef. 1-4-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SDSD 5-2000, f. 12-29-00 cert. ef. 1-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
