



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 89 OREGON INNOVATION FUND 
 123-089-0080 
 Programs 
 
 (1) Signature Research Centers (SRCs): The Department and Oregon InC may dedicate a portion of the Fund to support the operations of one or more Signature Research Centers (SRCs). SRCs focus on emerging industry sectors where Oregon has innate advantages and are potential high-growth sectors in the future. SRCs will work with Oregon's research universities in partnership designed to commercialize the technologies being developed at universities, support the commercialization of research and development (R&D) in the private sector, and increase the collaboration and capacity of the universities. SRCs should also add to the entrepreneurial ecosystem throughout the State and support projects and organizations involved in other Oregon InC programs. The Department and the Audit Committee will provide oversight of the SRCs to ensure they are accomplishing their goals and spending moneys from the Fund appropriately. 

 (2) Commercialization Gap Fund Program: The Department and Oregon InC may dedicate a portion of the Fund to issue grants and/or investments that support commercialization of technologies by early-stage companies often in conjunction with university partners. Due in part to the long-term nature of financial returns from these types of companies, there are very limited sources of funding for these companies. The Commercialization Gap Fund is focused on filling this gap so that these companies can develop to the point of being attractive to private capital to continue their growth and development. In accordance with these rules, the Department will conduct a process to request and evaluate proposals for the management of the commercialization gap fund program with defined criteria, expectations, eligible uses of funds and periods for submission. 

 (3) High Impact Opportunity Projects (HIOPs) Program: The Department and Oregon InC may dedicate a portion of the Fund to issue grants that support the growth of emerging, potentially high-value industry sectors. The funding will support discrete projects, called High Impact Opportunity Projects (HIOPs) that will remove barriers to growth or increase capacity of Oregon InC’s industry focus areas. HIOP funding is not intended to support the development or commercialization of an individual company’s technology or intellectual property. In accordance with these rules, the Department will conduct a process to request and evaluate proposals for HIOP grants with defined criteria, expectations, eligible uses of funds and periods for submission. 

 (4) Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Support Program: The Department and Oregon InC may dedicate a portion of the Fund to the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Support Program. The SBIR Support Program is intended to help Oregon companies access federal commercialization funding and help those companies that do receive funding fill gaps in how the federal funding can be used. The SBIR Support Program applies specifically to the federal programs called the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, which are federal programs designed to stimulate technological innovation and provide opportunities for small businesses to conduct R&D with commercialization potential. The federal SBIR program usually provides grants in two phases: Phase I grants help very early-stage companies do proof of concept/feasibility studies on new technologies, while Phase II grants build on Phase I work to help companies develop commercially ready prototypes to test with customers. The SBIR Support Program has two components: application assistance grants called Phase 0 or Phase 00 Grants and Matching Grants. Phase 0 or 00 Grants are awarded via an application process. As long as a company meets the eligibility requirements and funds are available, the grant is awarded. Matching Grants are awarded via a competitive, request for proposals process. In accordance with these rules, the Department will institute a process to award Phase 0 and 00 Grants as well as a separate process to award Matching Grants. The processes will include eligibility requirements, eligible uses of funds and expectations among other things. 

 (5) Other Activities: The Department and Oregon InC may dedicate a portion of the Fund to support other activities that help achieve Oregon InC’s objectives. Any additional programs will be developed in accordance with these rules. If a new program will provide funding via a competitive process, the Department will issue one or more requests for proposals with defined eligibility requirements, eligible uses of funds, criteria and periods for submission. If the funding is used for other activities, including sponsorships, the Department will develop the justification for why the funding is necessary and appropriate and what the funding will achieve. The Department will report on any other activities supported by the Fund at the Oregon InC meeting following the funding award. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 284.706, ORS 284.720 & ORS 284.742 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 284.720 & ORS 284.742 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 9-2025, temporary amend filed 12/01/2025, effective 12/01/2025 through 05/29/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 16-2019, adopt filed 11/12/2019, effective 11/12/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
