



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 810 GENERAL 
 441-810-0240 
 False or Misleading Representations 
 
 A collection agency may not use any false, deceptive, or misleading representation or means in connection with the collection of any debt. Without limiting the general application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of this rule:  (1) The false representation or implication that the collection agency is vouched for, bonded by, or affiliated with the United States or any state, including the use of any badge, uniform, or facsimile thereof.  (2) The false representation of:  (a) The character, amount, or legal status of any debt; or  (b) Any services rendered or compensation which may be lawfully received by any collection agency for the collection of a debt.  (3) The false representation or implication that any individual is an attorney or that any communication is from an attorney.  (4) The representation or implication that nonpayment of any debt will result in the arrest or imprisonment of any person or the seizure, garnishment, attachment, or sale of any property or wages of any person unless such action is lawful and the collection agency or obligee intends to take such action.  (5) The threat to take any action that cannot legally be taken or that is not intended to be taken.  (6) The false representation or implication that a sale, referral, or other transfer of any interest in a debt shall cause the debtor to:  (a) Lose any claim or defense to payment of the debt; or  (b) Become subject to any practice prohibited by OAR 441-810-0200 to 441-810-0250.  (7) The false representation or implication that the debtor committed any crime or other conduct in order to disgrace the debtor.  (8) Communicating or threatening to communicate to any person credit information which is known or which should be known to be false, including the failure to communicate that a disputed debt is disputed.  (9) The use or distribution of any written communication which simulates or is falsely represented to be a document authorized, issued, or approved by any court, official, or agency of the United States or any state, or which creates a false impression as to its source, authorization, or approval.  (10) The use of any false representation or deceptive means to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain information concerning a debtor.  (11) The failure to disclose in the initial written communication with the debtor and, in addition, if the initial communication with the debtor is oral, in that initial oral communication, that the collection agency is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose, and the failure to disclose in subsequent communications that the communication is from a collection agency, except that this section shall not apply to a formal pleading made in connection with a legal action.  (12) The false representation or implication that accounts have been turned over to innocent purchasers for value.  (13) The false representation or implication that documents are legal process.  (14) The use of any business, company, or organization name other than the true name of the collection agency’s business, company, or organization.  (15) The false representation or implication that documents are not legal process forms or do not require action by the debtor.  (16) The false representation or implication that a collection agency operates or is employed by a consumer reporting agency. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 697.085 & Ch. 421, Sec. 4 & 2003 OL 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 25.020 & Ch. 421, Sec. 4 & 2003 OL 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 6-2003, f. 12-30-03 cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
