



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 43 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE RATING SYSTEM AND AUDIT PROCEDURES 
 836-043-0220 
 Committee Participation 
 
 (1) The Committee shall consist of seven voting and one nonvoting member as follows:  (a) Five voting members shall be insurers, one of which shall be the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation. No two insurers that share common ownership or management so as to meet the definition of a controlled group under Sections 851(c)(3) or 1563(a) of the Internal Revenue Code shall serve together on the Committee;  (b) One voting member shall be an Oregon Workers’ Compensation insured;  (c) One voting member shall be a “public body” as defined by ORS 192.410(1);  (d) The nonvoting member shall be the Director or the Director’s designee.  (2) The Committee officers are as follows:  (a) Chairperson shall be the Director, or Director’s designee;  (b) First Vice-chairperson and Second Vice-chairperson shall be elected by insurer voting members for annual terms provided that one of the vice-chairpersons be the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation.  (c) Recording Secretary shall be a representative of the NCCI.  (3) Committee members shall be selected as follows:  (a) The Director shall appoint the insured member and public body members;  (b) The Director shall appoint the insurer members as follows:  (A) NCCI shall compile a list of nominees which the Director is to consider when making such appointments. The Director, however, is not required to appoint any of the nominees presented by NCCI;  (B) The list of nominees complied by NCCI shall contain no fewer than seven candidates, one of which shall be the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation;  (C) The nominees presented by NCCI shall possess expertise in the application of the Oregon workers’ compensation rating system;  (D) The nominees presented by NCCI shall, to the extent possible, represent on a written premium basis a balance between stock and non-stock insurers;  (E) NCCI shall provide the list of nominees to the Director 30 days prior to the date the Director is required to make the appointments;  (F) When an appointment is made, the Director will immediately notify NCCI regarding the identity of the insured member and public body members;  (G) In the event the Director fails to make any such appointment, the members serving on the Committee for the term immediately preceding shall continue to serve until such time as a new appointment is made.  (c) Each member appointed by the Director shall furnish to the Director, and to the NCCI the names, addresses, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the individuals which it has selected to serve as its representative and alternate on the Committee.  (4) Each insurer member’s term on the Committee shall be for three years. The insurer members shall serve staggered terms. For the first term, two insurer members shall be selected for one year terms, two shall be selected for two year terms, and one shall be selected for a three year term.  (5) The insured member and public body members shall each serve for a one year term.  (6) Vacancies on the Committee shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term pursuant to section (3) of this rule. Newly appointed members shall be from the same class as the retiring member.  (7) Members shall be reimbursed by NCCI for the reasonable expenses connected with the Committee functions, including, but not limited to, travel expenses, food and lodging. Such reimburse-ment may be provided as a per diem allowance. Members shall receive no other compensation for their participation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244, 737.310(13) & 737.526(1) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 737.310(13) & 737.526 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 11-1992, f. 6-9-92, cert. ef. 6-15-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
