



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology 
 Chapter 335 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 PROFESSIONAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS 
 335-005-0016 
 Tele-practice 
 
 (1) Audiologists and speech-language pathologists who hold an Oregon license can provide telepractice services through telephonic, electronic, or other means, including diagnosis, consultation, treatment, transfer of health care information. Telepractice, whether the service is rendered from Oregon or delivered to Oregon, constitutes the practice of audiology or speech-language pathology and shall require state licensure. 

 (2) Services delivered via telecommunication technology must be equivalent to the quality of services delivered face-to-face (i.e. in-person). 

 (3) The telepractitioner is responsible for assessing the client’s candidacy for telepractice, including behavioral, physical, and cognitive abilities to participate in services provided via telecommunications. 

 (4) Telepractice services must conform to professional standards including but not limited to ethical practice, scope of practice, professional policy documents, and other relevant federal, state, and institutional policies and requirements. 

 (5) Telepractitioners must have the knowledge and skills to competently deliver services via telecommunication technology by virtue of education, training, and/or experience. 

 (6) The use of technology—e.g., equipment, connectivity, software, hardware must be appropriate for the service being delivered and must be able to address the unique needs of each client. 

 (7) Audio and video quality shall be sufficient to deliver services that are equivalent to in-person service delivery. 

 (8) Telepractice service delivery includes the responsibility to ensure calibration of clinical instruments in accordance with standard operating procedures and the manufacturer’s specifications. 

 (9) Prior to the initiation of telehealth services, a Licensee shall obtain the patient/client and if applicable, their parent or guardian’s consent to receive the services via telepractice. The consent may be verbal, written, or recorded and must be documented in the patient/client’s permanent record. The notification will include, but not be limited to, the right to refuse telepractice services, options for service delivery to the extent compliant with applicable Federal laws and regulations, and instructions on filing and resolving complaints. 

 (10) Telepractitioners shall comply with all laws, rules, and regulations governing the maintenance of client records, including but not limited to HIPAA and FERPA, and client confidentiality requirements in the state where the client is receiving services, regardless of the state where the records of any client within this state are maintained. 

 (11) Telepractice services may not be provided by correspondence only—e.g., mail, e-mail, fax—although these may be used in connection with telepractice. 

 (12) When providing services via telepractice, the Licensee shall have procedures in place to address remote medical or clinical emergences at the patient/client’s location. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 681 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 681.330, ORS 681.420 & ORS 681.460 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPA 1-2019, adopt filed 08/01/2019, effective 09/05/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
