



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES 
 333-016-0057 
 Test Methods for Simulating Use and Abuse of Toys and Other Articles Intended for Children 18 Months of Age or Less 
 
 (1) Application. The test methods described in this section shall be used in determining compliance, in addition to other requirements of toys intended for use by children 18 months of age or less.  (2) Impact test. (Drop Test) Known as Test (E,i). Toys subject to special impact test in OAR 333-016-0056(2)(d) excepted.  (a) Application. Toys having a weight of less than three pounds shall be subjected to this test;  (b) Impact medium. The impact medium shall consist of a 0.125-inch nominal thickness of Type IV vinyl-asbestos tile, as specified in Federal specification SS-T-31-2A, over at least 2.5-inch thickness of concrete. The impact area shall be at least three square feet;  (c) Testing procedure. The toy shall be dropped ten times from a height of 4.5 feet plus or minus 0.5-inch. The toy shall be dropped in random orientation. After each drop the test sample shall be allowed to come to rest and examined and evaluated before continuing.  (3) Bite test. Known as Test (E,ii).  (a) Application. A toy (or component or any accessible portion thereof) that has an external dimension of 1-1/4 inches plus or minus .05-inch or less and a design configuration that would permit a child to insert a portion into the mouth in any orientation up to a biting thickness of 1-1/4 inches plus or minus .05-inch, for a penetration of at least one-fourth inch, shall be subject to this test;  (b) Test equipment:  (A) Contact mechanism. The contact mechanism shall be two metal strips, each one thirty-second inch thick. The strips shall be circular or semicircular in shape with a 1-1/2 inch diameter and a one-half inch height. The edges thereof shall be rounded to a radius of one sixty-fourth inch measuring 0.25-inch plus or minus 0.002-inch (0.635 centimeter), high and each having a contact edge radius of 0.020-inch plus or minus 0.002-inch (0.05 centimeter), for at least a 150-degree cross-sectional arc. A suggested contact mechanism appears in Figure 15;  (B) Loading device. The loading device shall be a scale or force gauge having an accuracy of plus or minus .05 pound;  (C) Testing procedure. The toy shall be placed in the loading device in any reasonable position for a restriction of 0.25-inch to 0.5-inch utilizing not more than 180 degrees of the arc and a test load increasing to 25 pounds plus or minus .05 pound over five seconds shall be evenly applied. This load shall be maintained for an additional ten seconds.  (4) Torque test. Known herein as Test (E,iii):  (a) Application:  (A) General. A toy with a projection, part, or assembly that the child can grasp by at least the thumb and forefinger or the teeth shall be subject to this test;  (B) Toys with rotating components. Projections, parts, or assemblies that are rigidly mounted on a rod or shaft designed to rotate shall be tested with the rod or shaft clamped to prevent rotation.  (b) Test equipment:  (A) Loading device. The loading device shall be a torque gauge, torque wrench, or other appropriate device having an accuracy of -2 inch-pound (-0.23 kilogram-centimeter);  (B) Clamp. The clamp shall be capable of holding the test component firmly and transmitting a torsional force (see Figure 16);  (C) Test procedure. With the sample rigidly fastened in any reasonable test position, the clamp is fastened to the test object or component. A torque of two inch-pounds plus or minus 0.2 pound shall be applied clockwise over a period of five seconds or until a rotation of 180 degrees from the original position has been attained, or two inch-pounds exceeded. The torque or maximum rotation shall be maintained for an additional ten seconds. The torque shall then be removed and the test component permitted to return to relaxed condition. This procedure shall then be repeated in a counter-clockwise direction.  (5) Tension test. Known herein as Test (E,iv):  (a) Application:  (A) General. With the exception of tires, wheels, and axles, which are tested by 333-016-0065(2)(e)(A) and test (E,iii) and test (E,iv). Any projection of a toy that the child can grasp by at least the thumb and forefinger or the teeth shall be subject to this test. This test is to be conducted on the toy after it has been subjected to test (E,iii);  (B) Mouth toy. A mouth toy shall be tested immediately after being subjected to the procedure described in paragraph (4)(b)(C) of this rule;  (C) Stuffed toys and beanbags. A stuffed toy or beanbag constructed of pliable materials having seams (such as fabrics) shall have the seams subjected to 10 pounds plus or minus 0.5 pound (4.55 kilograms) of force applied in any direction.  (b) Test equipment:  (A) Clamps. One clamp capable of applying a tension load to the test component is required. A second clamp suitable for applying a tension load perpendicularly to the major axis of the test component is also required;  (B) Loading device. The loading device is a self-indicating gauge or other appropriate means having an accuracy of -0.5 pound (-225 grams);  (c) Test procedure. With the test sample fastened in a convenient position, an appropriate clamp shall be attached to the test object or component. A 10 pound plus or minus 0.5 pound direct force shall be evenly applied parallel to the major axis of the test component over a period of five seconds and then maintained for an additional ten seconds. The tension clamp shall then be removed and a second clamp appropriate for pulling at 90 degrees shall be attached to the test object or component. A ten pound plus or minus 0.5 pound tensile force shall be evenly applied perpendicular to the major axis of the test component over a period of five seconds and then maintained for an additional ten seconds.  (6) Compression test. Known herein as Test (E,v):  (a) Application. This test is required in addition to any other test which may be required in these rules. Any area on the surface of a toy that is accessible to a child and inaccessible to flat-surface contact during the impact test shall be subject to this test;  (b) Test apparatus. The loading device shall be a rigid metal disk of 1-1/2 inches plus or minus 0.15-inch in diameter and three-eighths inch in thickness. The perimeter of the disk shall be rounded to a radius of one thirty-second inch to eliminate irregular edges. The disk shall be attached to a self-indicating gauge scale having an accuracy of plus or minus 0.5 pound;  (c) Test procedure. The shaft shall be positioned so that it is generally perpendicular to the surface under test. A direct force increasing to 20 pounds plus or minus 0.5 pound over a period of five seconds shall be applied through the disk. This load shall be maintained for an additional ten seconds. During the test the toy is to rest on a flat, hard surface in any convenient position.  [ED. NOTE: Figures referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.095 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.005 & 453.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 89, f. 7-31-75, ef. 8-25-75 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 40, f. 8-2-73, ef. 8-15-73 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
