



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Occupational Therapy Licensing Board 
 Chapter 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PRACTICE ACT 
 339-010-0007 
 Occupational Therapy in Mental Health and Behavioral Health Practice 
 
 Pursuant to ORS 675.210 defining the practice of Occupational Therapy, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants, use analysis and purposeful activity with individuals across their lifespan who are limited by psycho-social dysfunctions, or mental or behavioral disabilities.  (1) Occupational therapists address barriers to optimal functioning at the all levels with:  (a) Individuals (body functions, cognitive functions, values, beliefs, spirituality, motor skills, cognitive skills, and social skills);  (b) Groups (collective individuals, e.g. families, workers, students, or community); and  (c) Populations (collective groups of individuals living in a similar locale, e.g., city, state, or country residents, people sharing same or like concerns).  (2) Occupational therapy practitioners perform evaluations and interventions that focus on enhancing existing skills, creating opportunities, promoting wellness, remediating or restoring skills, modifying or adapting the environment or activity, and preventing relapse.  (3) Occupational therapists and Occupational therapy assistants use a recovery model to increase the ability of individuals, groups, and populations to be engaged with daily life activities that are meaningful; lead to productive daily roles, habits, and routines; and promote living as independently as possible.  (4) Services for individuals with mental illness are client centered and may be provided to individuals in the community, hospitals, correctional institutions, homes, schools or other educational programs, workplace, or any other setting.  (5) Occupational therapists may provide behavioral and mental health preliminary “diagnosis” using standard terminology and taxonomy such as DSM or ICD, through observation of symptoms and mental health assessment, confirmed by prescribing physician and health care team. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 675.320(8) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 675.320 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OTLB 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 10-9-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
