



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITIES 
 660-022-0050 
 Community Public Facility Plans 
 
 (1) In coordination with special districts, counties shall adopt public facility plans meeting the requirements of OAR 660, division 11, and include them in the comprehensive plan for unincorporated communities over 2,500 in population. A community public facility plan addressing sewer and water is required if the unincorporated community is designated as an urban unincorporated community under OAR 660-022-0010 and 660-022-0020. For all communities, a sewer and water community public facility plan is required if:  (a) Existing sewer or water facilities are insufficient for current needs, or are projected to become insufficient due to physical conditions, financial circumstances or changing state or federal standards; or  (b) The plan for the unincorporated community provides for an amount, type or density of additional growth or infill that cannot be adequately served with individual water or sanitary systems or by existing community facilities and services; or  (c) The community relies on groundwater and is within a groundwater limited or groundwater critical area as identified by the Oregon Department of Water Resources; or  (d) Land in the community has been declared a health hazard or has a history of failing septic systems or wells.  (2) A community public facility plan shall include inventories, projected needs, policies and regulations for the water and sewerage facilities which are existing or needed to serve the unincorporated community, including:  (a) An inventory of the condition and capacity of existing public facilities and services;  (b) An assessment of the level of facilities and services needed to adequately serve the planned buildout within the community area boundary; and  (c) Coordination agreements consistent with ORS chapter 195.  (3) If existing community facilities and services are not currently adequate to serve the development allowed in the plan and zoning ordinance, the community public facility plan shall contain either:  (a) Development restrictions to ensure development will not exceed the capacity of the land to absorb waste and provide potable water and will not exceed the capacity of public facilities; or  (b) A list of new facilities, and improvements for existing public facilities, necessary to adequately serve the planned buildout in the unincorporated community, including the projected costs of these improvements and an identification of the provider or providers of these improvements; and  (c) A discussion of the provider’s funding mechanisms and the ability of these and possibly new mechanisms to fund the development of each community public facility project; and  (d) A requirement that development not occur until the necessary public facilities are available for that development. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 & 197.245 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 4-2006, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 8-1994, f. & cert. ef. 12-5-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
