



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 700 INTERNAL AUDITING 
 125-700-0135 
 Agency Internal Audit Function Governance
 
 
 (1) Agency internal audit functions shall be governed by appropriate professional auditing standards such as The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) or the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) of the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO). 

 (2) To help ensure the integrity of the internal audit process, agency management shall take reasonable steps necessary to support the internal audit function in complying with the selected professional auditing standards. This may include obtaining audit related certifications, continuing professional education training and membership to professional auditing associations. 

 (3) The agency's internal audit charter shall formally define the internal audit function's purpose, authority, responsibility, and the professional auditing standards the function will follow. The internal audit charter must be approved and periodically reviewed by the audit committee and agency senior management. 

 (4) Internal audit staff shall have unrestricted access to all systems, processes, operations, functions, data, personnel, and activities within an agency as needed to perform job responsibilities. 

 (5) Each agency having an internal audit function shall establish and maintain an audit committee. The primary purpose of the audit committee is to enhance the quality and independence of the internal audit function, thereby helping ensure the integrity of the internal audit process. This is achieved at minimum by: 

 (a) Having a formal, written charter that establishes the audit committee’s mandate, authority, and functional reporting relationship including the roles and responsibilities of the audit committee and its members. The charter must be approved and periodically reviewed by the audit committee and agency head. 

 (b) Include at least one qualified external member that is independent of agency management on the audit committee to enhance public accountability and transparency and increase independence of the internal audit activity. 

 (c) If the agency has a governing board or commission, the audit committee must include at least one board or commission member. This member can be used to meet the requirement listed in “(b)” above. 

 (d) The audit committee shall approve the risk-based internal audit plan. The audit committee shall also review internal audit reports on the progress of internal and external audit report findings and recommendations to determine whether proper corrective action has been completed or that senior management has assumed the risk of not taking the recommended corrective action. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.360 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 184.360(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 3-2022, amend filed 04/27/2022, effective 05/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 2-2014, f. 4-30-14, cert. ef. 5-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 1-2011, f. 6-23-11, cert. ef. 6-30-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
