



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS 
 581-022-2340 
 Media Programs 
 
 (1) School District Media Services: The school district shall provide a coordinated media program. The district shall:  (a) Adopt Program goals for:  (A) Media instruction for all grade levels; and  (B) Support services.  (b) Provide appropriate instructional facilities, materials, equipment, and services which support the school district, program and course goals;  (c) Assign responsibilities to certificated media specialists and other personnel for the development, implementation, maintenance, and supervision of media services;  (d) Organize media services and materials required for the achievement of district and building media program goals; and  (e) Evaluate district and school media programs.  (2) School Media Services: The school district shall provide in each school a media program consistent with district, program and course goals which:  (a) Provides an organized media center with materials, equipment and services supervised by appropriate certificated personnel;  (b) Identifies instructional activities designed to achieve media skills goals; and  (c) Includes instruction that addresses the ability of each student to:  (A) Locate and retrieve organized print and nonprint media;  (B) Use media to record and express ideas and knowledge; and  (C) Listen to, view, interpret and analyze media materials.  (3) In determining whether the assignment of certificated media and other staff is appropriate, the following shall be considered:  (a) The district, program and course goals of the media services program;  (b) The number of schools, students and staff to be served;  (c) The access students and staff have to media services defined in the media program;  (d) The number, certification and training of personnel assigned to media program responsibilities including specialists, teachers and aides;  (e) The extent to which staffing patterns vary from general statewide practice; and  (f) The extent to which the media program enables students to attain instructional goals. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.051 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 326.051 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 581-022-1520 by ODE 16-2017, f. & cert. ef. 7-5-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 18-1996, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
