



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 INJURED WORKERS; DISABILITY; VETERANS AND PERSONS IN UNIFORMED SERVICES 
 839-006-0295 
 Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities by State Government: Provision of Auxiliary Aids and Services 
 
 (1) Except as provided for in subsection (3) of this section, state government must provide auxiliary aids and services when necessary to ensure equal access for individuals with disabilities to state government programs, services, and activities.  (2) Auxiliary aids and services may include, but are not limited to:  (a) Qualified interpreters, note takers, real-time computer-aided transcription services, transcription services, written materials, exchange of written notes, telephone handset amplifiers, assistive listening devices, assistive listening systems, telephones compatible with hearing aids, closed caption decoders, open and closed captioning including real-time captioning, voice, text and video-based telecommunications products and systems, including text telephones (TTYs), videophones, and captioned telephones, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDDs), videotext displays, computer aided real time captioning (CART), accessible electronic and information technology, or other effective methods of making aurally delivered materials available to individuals with hearing impairments;  (b) Qualified readers, taped texts, audio recordings, brailed materials and displays, screen reader software, magnification software, optical readers, secondary auditory programs (SAP), large print materials, accessible electronic and information technology including e-mail, or other effective methods of making visually delivered materials available to individuals with visual impairments;  (c) Acquisition or modification of equipment or devices; and  (d) Other similar services and actions.  (3) State government is not required to provide auxiliary aids or services that state government can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program or activity of state government or would result in undue financial or administrative burdens on state government. This will be determined on a case by case basis.  (4) State government may not place a surcharge to cover the costs of measures such as the provision of auxiliary aids or program accessibility, that are required to provide an individual with a disability with the nondiscriminatory treatment required by ORS 659A.142(5). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 659A.805 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 659A.142 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 15-2013, f. & cert. ef 12-30-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 8-2010, f. & cert. ef. 2-24-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 21-2005, f. 10-20-05, cert. ef. 10-21-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
