



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 220 ENDORSEMENTS 
 584-220-0015 
 Evidence of Content Knowledge and Pedagogy Skills
 
 
 (1) To be eligible to add an endorsement, an applicant must submit evidence of meeting the required content knowledge and pedagogy skills, as provided in Chapter 584 Divisions 210, 220 and 420.   Acceptable evidence of content knowledge and pedagogy skills may include: 

 (a) A passing score on Commission-adopted subject matter licensure test or meeting the requirements of at least one Multiple Measures content knowledge assessment option ; 

 (b) Completion of Commission-approved preparation program or coursework; 

 (c) A passing score on acceptable out-of-state endorsement tests; 

 (d) Completion of out-of-state endorsement programs from a National Association of State Directors of Teacher Education and Certification (NASDTEC) jurisdiction; and 

 (e) Other evidence at the discretion of the Director of Licensure or designees. 

 (2) Oregon-Prepared Candidates – Subject Matter Tests or Multiple Measures Content Knowledge Assessment : To verify a passing score on a Commission-adopted subject-matter test or assessment option ,  the applicant must provide: 

 (a) Either the original or an authentic facsimile paper score report; 

 (b) An electronic score report submitted directly to TSPC by the testing company that administers the test; or 

 (c) Documentation as described in the Multiple Measures Guidance document(s); or 

 (d) Other evidence documenting a passing score on a subject-matter test if compelling circumstances prohibit the applicant from providing an original score report. 

 (A) It is solely within the discretion of the Director of Licensure or designee to determine if the alternative documentation of the passing score is acceptable. 

 (B) The Director of Licensure may submit the evidence to the Commission if the Director determines the evidence requires Commission review. 

 
 NOTE: In most circumstances, the applicant may provide evidence of a passing score on a previously Commission-adopted test, even if the Commission has adopted another test as a replacement. To meet the current subject-matter test requirement, the previous test must have been adopted by the Commission as the approved subject-matter test at the time the applicant received the passing score. 
 

 (3) Oregon-Prepared Candidates – Completion of Programs and Coursework: If the Commission requires or accepts completion of a Commission-approved program or coursework to qualify for an endorsement, the applicant must submit: 

 (a) For endorsements or specializations requiring a program: 

 (A) A program completion report; and 

 (B) Official transcripts . 

 (b) For endorsements requiring coursework: Official transcripts of the coursework. 

 (4) Out-of-State Prepared Candidates – Subject Matter Tests: The Commission may provide reciprocity for an out-of-state test if: 

 (a) The applicant provides verification of a passing score on the subject-matter test, as provided in subsection (5).  

 (b) The out-of-state subject-matter test and passing score is approved for licensure by a NASDTEC jurisdiction; and 

 (c) The Director of Licensure determines the content of the out-of-state test is more similar than not to the Oregon test. 

 (5) To verify a passing score on an out-of-state subject-matter test, the applicant must provide: 

 (a) Either the original or an authentic facsimile paper score report; 

 (b) An electronic score report submitted directly to TSPC by the testing company that administers the test; or 

 (c) Other evidence documenting a passing score on a subject-matter test if compelling circumstances prohibit the applicant from providing an original score report. 

 (A) It is solely within the discretion of the Director of Licensure or designee to determine if the alternative documentation of the passing score is acceptable. 

 (B) The Director of Licensure may submit the evidence to the Commission if the Director determines the evidence requires Commission review. 

 (6) Waiver of Subject-Matter Tests for Out-of-State Prepared Candidates: The Commission may waive subject-matter testing requirements if the out-of-state applicant can provide evidence of: 

 (a) Academic preparation satisfactory to the Commission; and 

 (b) Five years of half-time or more teaching experience in the requested subject matter.  The teaching experience must be completed: 

 (A) Prior to application for licensure in Oregon; and 

 (B) While properly licensed and endorsed in the content area requested. The license must be valid for the assignment in a public school or regionally accredited private school in a NASDTEC jurisdiction. 

 (c) Teaching experience without a valid license may count toward test waiver, at the discretion of the Director of Licensure. 

 (d) To be considered for a waiver under this subsection, the applicant must meet the waiver provisions as provided in 584-200-0100(2), Waiver of Licensure Requirements by the Commission. 

 (7) Out-of-State Prepared Candidates – Completion of Programs: To verify a program for adding an endorsement to an Oregon teaching license, an out-of-state prepared applicant must submit: 

 (a) Evidence of acceptance to and completion of the program, as approved by the Director of Licensure or designee. The program must: 

 (A) Be approved in a NASDTEC jurisdiction; and 

 (B) Result in eligibility for the endorsement on a teaching license in the NASDTEC jurisdiction. 

 (b) Official transcripts. 

 (8) For situations not covered by the provisions of this rule, the Commission grants the Director of Licensure the discretion to determine whether test scores, licensure or experience submitted pursuant to this section meets the Commission’s intent with regard to preventing redundancy in completing subject-matter testing requirements. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.125 - 342.144 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 14-2022, amend filed 10/20/2022, effective 11/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 5-2017, amend filed 11/14/2017, effective 11/15/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 12-2015, f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
