



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 308 ELECTRICAL PROGRAM MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION 
 918-308-0040 
 Check List for Operating Plan and Documentation 
 
 An “operating plan” is the municipality’s strategy for carrying out the goals and objectives of its electrical inspection program. “Strategy” means what, how, and when it will be done. The operating plan for a municipality assuming the electrical program from another municipality shall include:  (1) Strategies and written agreements, where relevant, for handling the transition from the losing municipality to applicant, including arrangements made for:  (a) Open permits and inspections ongoing as of July 1;  (b) Enforcement actions pending on July 1;  (c) Being fully operational on July 1, including staffing and training of permit and other personnel;  (d) Informing contractors and others of the changeover of inspecting jurisdictions, jurisdictional boundaries and requirements covering permits and procedures, inspection procedures, temporary permit procedures, plan review requirements, and fees; and  (e) Employees presently providing the electrical inspection services in the area covered by the application and how applicant will deal with ORS 236.605:  (A) If the matter was resolved by the applicant and losing jurisdiction, or with the jurisdiction and the inspector, provide a copy of the agreement and a statement by applicant’s municipal counsel that all employee rights under ORS 236.605 were preserved;  (B) Any assertion that ORS 236.605 is not applicable to the transaction must be from applicant’s municipal counsel.  (2) Strategies for electrical operations including:  (a) Inspectors and inspections:  (A) When will certified electrical inspectors be hired, how will applicant be operational by July 1, and how will inspectors be used to carry out the program;  (B) Where more than one inspection office is involved, how will inspectors be deployed;  (C) If the electrical program is offered jointly with another municipality or parts of another municipality, the agreement between municipalities, which ordinances will apply in the different areas, what offices and staff assignments will be made and what boundaries are involved; and  (D) If electrical services will be provided by a contractor, the operating plan to be followed including inspection, coverage of prolonged absences and administration and an agreement by the contractor to be bound by the Electrical Delegation Rules.  (b) Code interpretations. How will code interpretations be provided and when will electrical inspectors be available to provide them. This should cover each office;  (c) Conflict resolution. How will conflicts in electrical code interpretations between inspectors, or inspectors and the public, be resolved at the local level, what rights of appeal will the public be advised of, and how will conflicts of interest involving staff be resolved;  (d) Plan review. Will plan review be required and if so, which installations require plan review;  (e) Turn-around time. What will be the response time to inspection requests, what correction notices will be used, when will reinspection be required, and how and where will permit and inspection records be kept. If a contractor is used, will contractor records be made available at the municipality’s offices in the event of a review of electrical operations. Attach related forms to be used;  (f) Enforcement. How and when will license checks and permit and code compliance be monitored, who will be involved and how will corrections be enforced. If the electrical inspector is not full time with the municipality, who will do license checks and other enforcement during the inspector’s absence;  (g) Use of labels. What labels will be used and what internal procedures will be followed for minor installation labels and bulk labels if the municipality uses bulk labels;  (h) Temporary permits. What temporary permit procedures are adopted by the municipality to deal with OAR 918, division 309 or for days during a regular workweek when the municipality is not open for permit sales;  (i) Forms and records. What electrical permit application, appeal, and other forms will be used and where will formal permit and inspection records be kept. Attach forms;  (j) Accounting. How will electrical revenues, direct and indirect including interest earned, be segregated from other revenues and accounted for; how will payments from and charges to that account be accounted for; and if there are electrical surpluses, will these be carried over for the electrical program between fiscal years. How will overhead, including all administrative costs, be allocated;  (k) Projections. What is applicant’s projection for electrical income and expenses for the fiscal period for which the application is filed and what assumptions, such as growth or increased inspections, are relied on. What are the projections for following periods if losses are projected for the first period. If losses are projected, how these will be funded. If a contractor is used, show projections for the municipality and the contractor.  (l) Contingency plan. A plan for “back-up” inspection services. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.730 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.855, 455.148 & 455.150 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 23-2008, f. 9-30-08, cert. ef. 10-1-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 8-2008(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 6-19-08 thru 12-15-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 19-1996, f. 9-17-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96, Renumbered from 918-300-0150 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCA 21-1993, f. 10-5-93, cert. ef 12-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
