



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 BATTERER INTERVENTION PROGRAM RULES 
 137-087-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 For purposes of OAR 137-087-0000 through 137-087-0100, the following terms have the meanings set forth below.  (1) "Batterer" means:  (a) An adult male 18 years of age or older who engages in "battering" against women; or  (b) A male minor criminally convicted as an adult of conduct against women that constitutes "battering" in whole or in part.  (2) "Battering" includes but is not limited to physical violence, sexual violence, threats, isolation, emotional and psychological intimidation, verbal abuse, stalking, economic abuse, or other controlling behaviors against women in, but not limited to, the following relationships:  (a) A current or former spouse of the batterer;  (b) An unmarried parent of a child fathered by the batterer;  (c) A woman who is cohabiting with or has cohabited with the batterer;  (d) A woman who has been involved in a sexually intimate relationship with the batterer within the past two years;  (e) A woman who has a dating relationship with the batterer;  (f) An adult woman related by blood, marriage or adoption to the batterer; or  (g) A woman who relies on the batterer for ongoing personal care assistance.  (3) "Battering" may or may not violate criminal law and in most instances is patterned behavior.  (4) "Batterer intervention program" (BIP) means a program, whether public or private, profit or non-profit, that is conducted to provide intervention and education services to batterers related to ending their battering.  (5) “Demonstration Project” means a BIP, or subprogram within a BIP, that significantly departs from these rules in order to explore an alternative means of addressing battering.  (6) "Facilitator" means anyone who provides BIP intervention services, whether in a group or class setting, or individually.  (7) “Session” means a BIP facilitated group or class with more than one participant, lasting one and one half to two hours.  (8) “Leave of Absence” means a participant missing two or more sessions with advance knowledge and approval of the BIP. See 137-087-0070(7).  (9) "Local Domestic Violence Coordinating Council" (Council) means a council set up by local entities that works to intervene with or prevent domestic violence, and to foster a coordinated community response to reduce domestic violence. A Council shall include representatives of the criminal justice system (such as law enforcement, prosecution, and judiciary) and victims' advocacy programs. A Council may also include medical professionals, mental health professionals, health agencies, substance abuse programs, culturally specific providers, child protective services, child support enforcement, school personnel, senior services, disability services, self-sufficiency services (public assistance) and other applicable programs of the Oregon Department of Human Services (DHS), representatives from faith communities, other community groups, and BIPs.  (10) "Local Supervisory Authority" (LSA) means the state or local corrections agency or official designated in each county by that county's board of county commissioners or county court to operate corrections supervision services, or custodial facilities, or both.  (11) "Mandating Authority" (MA) means the court, DHS Child Welfare, or corrections system authority that has ordered or required the batterer to participate in a BIP.  (12) "Participant" means a batterer who participates in a BIP.  (13) "Partner" means a person in a past or present intimate relationship with a batterer, including persons described in subsection (2) of this section. A partner may be under the age of 18 and may or may not be an identified victim of the participant's battering.  (14) "Protection Order" includes but is not limited to a Family Abuse Prevention Act (FAPA) order, Elderly Persons and Persons with Disabilities Abuse Prevention Act (EPPDAPA) order, a no-contact order, a release order or release agreement, a stalking order or any other type of restraining order.  (15) "Victim" means a female, including a past or present partner, subjected to battering. A victim may be under the age of 18. In no event shall the batterer be considered a victim for purposes of these rules.  (16) "Victim advocacy program" (VP) means a nonprofit organization, agency or program that assists domestic violence or sexual assault victims. VPs include, but are not limited to, battered women's shelters, rape crisis centers, and other sexual assault and domestic violence programs assisting victims of battering. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 13-2012, f. 7-31-12, cert. ef. 8-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 16-2005, f. 11-23-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
