



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 670 FOREST PRACTICES ADMINISTRATION — ENFORCEMENT AND CIVIL PENALTIES 
 629-670-0214 
 Civil Penalty Administrator Discretion
 
 
 
 Note: This rule applies to all operations for which a notification is filed under ORS 527.670(6) on or after January 1, 2024 or a notification filed prior to January 1, 2024 if the operation is not completed on or before December 31, 2023. Rules that relate to fish streams apply to an operation, other than an operation on small forestland, for which a notification is filed on or after July 1, 2023. 
 

 (1) The civil penalty administrator shall have the discretion to combine violations for the sake of assessing reasonable penalties, under the following circumstances: 

 (a) Multiple citations have been issued for violations resulting from the same practice; 

 (b) Multiple citations have been issued for violations resulting in the same damage; or 

 (c) Upon a finding of the State Forester that a combination of violations is in the public interest and consistent with the policy of the Oregon Forest Practices Act, ORS 527.630. 

 (2) The civil penalty administrator shall have the discretion to find a penalty is not warranted for reforestation violation cases, when: 

 (a) The party cited for the violation was not the landowner at the time the harvesting operation reduced stocking below the minimum standards; and 

 (b) Planting is completed as directed in the repair order. 

 (3) The civil penalty administrator shall have the discretion to find a penalty is not warranted for cases where all of the following conditions exist: 

 (a) The violation arose inadvertently; 

 (b) There was little or no potential for damage; 

 (c) No damage resulted; and 

 (d) The cooperation of the operator shows there is little or no chance that the violation will be repeated. 

 (4) Penalties totaling less than $100 shall be suspended, pending no further violations within one year of issuance of the citation. 

 (5) The civil penalty administrator shall have the discretion to reduce the amount of the civil penalty when the party assessed: 

 (a) Agrees to the facts of the case; 

 (b) Accepts responsibility for the violation; and 

 (c) Agrees to perform mitigation on the operation unit, or within the watershed, that is equal or greater in value than the amount by which the penalty will be reduced. Examples may include, but are not limited to, any of the following restoration and enhancement activities: 

 (A) Reconstructing, relocating, or vacating roads that, because of their location, present a higher risk to water quality than if they had been located and designed to current forest practice rule standards; 

 (B) Restoring or enhancing upstream and downstream fish passage, including replacing crossing structures not designed to current forest practice rule standards; 

 (C) Restoring or enhancing fish habitat by placing large woody debris or other structures in or adjacent to stream channels; 

 (D) Retaining conifers adjacent to streams, to supplement current forest practice rule requirements, consistent with forest health considerations; 

 (E) Restoring or enhancing habitat for threatened and endangered species or other wildlife habitat; 

 (F) Restoring or enhancing the protection of salmonid production areas. Salmonid production areas include habitat identified through stream or other inventories as being important for spawning, rearing, or over-wintering; 

 (G) Participating in a research or monitoring program sponsored or endorsed by the Department of Forestry or the Department of Fish and Wildlife; 

 (H) Participating with Watershed Councils to conduct watershed assessments, develop action plans or implement restoration projects; 

 (I) Controlling noxious weeds or exotic species; or 

 (J) Implementing strategies to reduce the risk of catastrophic fire or insect or disease damage. 

 (6) For the purpose of calculating civil penalties for a new violation, the civil penalty administrator shall consider a person’s or entities’ history of receiving temporary orders, orders of the state forester, citations, and violations. This may include consideration of: 

 (a) As applies to individuals: business entities for which the individual was responsible for the actions of the business. 

 (b) As applies to businesses: individuals who are responsible for the actions of the entity, and the history of the entity should it have changed its name, form, ownership, or structure. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 527.710, 526.016 & Section 2(1), Chapter 33, Oregon Laws 2022 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 527.685 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 5-2022, amend filed 11/09/2022, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 2-2013, f. 7-11-13, cert. ef. 9-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 7-2002, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
