



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 62 WILDLIFE REHABILITATION 
 635-062-0010 
 Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit Requirements and Conditions 
 
 (1) A Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit may only be issued to a person who:  (a) Resides in Oregon or is a non-resident wildlife rehabilitator whose rehabilitation activities occur in Oregon or whose facility (or facilities) exist within the state;  (b) Is at least 18 years of age when taking the Oregon Wildlife Rehabilitation examination;  (c) Submits a completed and accurate written application form provided by the Department;  (d) Possesses a letter from an Oregon licensed DVM agreeing to act as a medical supervisor and consultant to the permittee if the permittee is not an Oregon licensed DVM;  (e) Passes the Oregon wildlife rehabilitation examination administered by the Department with a score of 80 percent or higher on the general section of the test and each relevant section of interest. Any applicant who fails to pass the Oregon Wildlife Rehabilitation examination may retake the examination no earlier than 14 days from the date of prior attempt;  (f) Is approved by the local Department district wildlife biologist or other Department representative as meeting a need for rehabilitation services in the area;  (g) Has not been convicted of, or admitted to, a violation of a wildlife law (under the Interstate Wildlife Violators Compact), or administrative rule, or permit issued under the Oregon wildlife laws within the previous five years; and  (h) Provides a suitable rehabilitation facility, or plan for such facility, approved by the local Department district wildlife biologist or other Department representative as meeting all requirements of these rules; and  (i) (Upon permit renewal) documents compliance with the Department’s Rehabilitation Continuing Education Standards. Permittees must complete and provide documentation of 12 hours of Department approved continuing education every 2 years.  (2) Subpermittees may perform wildlife rehabilitation activities under the supervision (direct or indirect) of a permittee only if:  (a) The permittee inspects the facilities of the subpermittee prior to the subpermittee receiving wildlife;  (b) The permittee provides the subpermittee written instruction concerning caging, food and feeding protocols, veterinary- directed treatment and any other assistance the permittee deems necessary for the care of wildlife in the subpermittee’s possession. The permittee must provide information concerning such assistance to the Department district wildlife biologist upon request;  (c) The subpermittee follows the written protocol, described in paragraph 2(b), provided by the permittee and, if necessary, approved by the Department district wildlife biologist;  (d) The subpermittee is approved by the Department district wildlife biologist before receiving wildlife. The name, physical address, and current phone number of the subpermittee must be provided to the Department. Any changes in subpermittee contact information must be provided to the Department with the permittee’s semi-annual Wildlife Rehabilitation Report (635-062-0305 (2));  (e) All wildlife is admitted through the permittee’s licensed facility, the subpermittee may not accept wildlife from any other source;  (f) The permittee is directly responsible for the rehabilitation activities of the subpermittee working under their permit;  (g) The subpermittee resides and conducts wildlife rehabilitation activities within Oregon; and  (h) The subpermittee does not perform wildlife rehabilitation activities at their Home Care facility except for the care and feeding of neonate avian species unless the permittee has prior written approval to hold other wildlife species at the Home Care facility from the local Department district wildlife biologist.  (3) Licensed Oregon veterinarians administering immediate medical care for injured wildlife are not required to have a Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit or submit a semi-annual report. Veterinarians that provide care or hold wildlife longer than 48-hours must be listed as a subpermittee or are required to pass the Oregon Wildlife Rehabilitation examination and possess a Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit. The local Department district wildlife biologist may, by written authorization, allow a non-permittee veterinarian to hold animals longer than 48 hours due to extenuating medical circumstances.  (4) The Department may deny issuance of a Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit, disapprove subpermittee(s) and impose permit conditions or restrictions (e.g., number of species, types of species, subpermittees, etc.) if the applicant or subpermittee is convicted of, or admits to, a violation of wildlife law (under the Interstate Wildlife Violators Compact), or administrative rule, or an order or permit issued under the Oregon wildlife laws within the previous five years.  (5) At least one member of a wildlife rehabilitation facility’s staff must possess a Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit and that person must provide direct on-site supervision to non-permitted staff and volunteers.  (6) Wildlife Rehabilitation Permits are issued free of charge and expire no more than two years from date of issue.  (7) A Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit does not exempt the permittee from complying with other state, federal, county, and city laws and regulations.  (8) A Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit does not authorize the practice of veterinary medicine or the treatment of domestic animals.  (9) Permits must be carried on the person or displayed in a public area in the facility while performing wildlife rehabilitation activities.  (10) The Department is not liable for any injuries or infections to the public or permittee, subpermittee, or volunteers, or damage caused by wildlife held, captured, or transported as authorized by and due to activities or actions associated with a Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit.  (11) The Oregon Wildlife Rehabilitation Permit does not allow the possession of wildlife for direct access or display to the public except during release events or as approved in writing by the Department. Indirect electronic viewing of wildlife patients by the public is permissible. Images of wildlife patients may be used for monitoring, advertising, brochures, websites, presentations or trainings. Non-releasable wildlife held for educational purposes may be publically displayed within the conditions of the permittee’s federal permit or letter of authorization to hold non-releasable wildlife. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 497.298, 497.308, 497.312, 497.318, 498.022, 498.029, 498.052, 498.222 & 498.242 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 497.298, 497.308, 497.312, 497.318, 498.022, 498.029, 498.052, 498.222 & 498.242 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 163-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-9-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
