



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 71 REFERENDUM AND ELECTION PROCEDURES 
 603-071-0030 
 Nominating Petitions for Directors 
 
 (1) Except as provided in section (4) of this rule, nominating petitions of candidates for director to be voted for at a general election shall be filed with the department no later than the 70th day before the date of the election. The department shall file the nominating petition with the appropriate election officer no later than the 61st day before the date of the election, so that the appropriate election officer may perform the necessary election procedures.  (2) In the event of a vacancy in the office of a director, so that the provisions of either section (3) or (4) of this rule would apply, the district shall immediately prepare, and file with the department not later than 30 days after the vacancy occurs, a written confirmation of vacancy setting forth the date of vacancy, cause of vacancy, and identity of the office (term of office, position or zone, etc.).  (3) If a vacancy occurs in the office of a director, in addition to any other procedural requirements, the provisions of section (1) of this rule shall apply.  (4) If a vacancy occurs in the office of a director within a time period that would preclude compliance with section (1) of this rule, the appropriate election officer shall be immediately notified of this circumstance. Under this circumstance, nominating petitions of candidates for director shall be filed with the appropriate election officer for verification of signatures on the petitions no later than 20 days before the date of the election. The petitions shall thereafter be submitted by the election officer to the department for confirmation of the validity of the contents of the petitions and the need therefore. If the election is determined to be necessary, and the contents of the petitions appropriate, the department shall request the appropriate election officer to publish an amended Notice of Election, prepare supplemental election ballots and absentee ballots, and to perform other procedures prescribed in ORS Chapter 255 for district elections. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 568 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 568.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 17-1986, f. & ef. 12-18-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
