



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 REST AREA SPONSORSHIP ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SIGN PROGRAM 
 734-031-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in Division 31 rules, the following definitions will apply:  (1) “Acknowledgment Sign” — A sign that informs the public that a Participant has provided a Contribution for the development or ongoing operation or maintenance of an Oregon Department of Transportation Rest Area. For the purposes of Division 31 rules, an “Acknowledgment Sign” includes an acknowledgement plaque or rider added to an existing sign on the mainline highway.  (2) “Contribution” — The provision of money, highway related service, or product for the development or ongoing operation or maintenance of a Rest Area.  (3) “Department” — The Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT).  (4) “Highway Related Service” — A service that supports the development, operation or maintenance of the Rest Area. Typical services include but are not limited to litter pickup, landscape maintenance, or brush removal.  (5) “MUTCD” — Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways along with the Oregon MUTCD Supplements.  (6) “Oregon Temporary Traffic Control Handbook” — The standards adopted by the Department for traffic control operations of three days or less.  (7) “Participant” — An individual, family group, company, business, or volunteer group who provide a Contribution and who has entered into a Sponsorship Agreement. “Participant” includes the organization and its members.  (8) “Product” — Items used in the development, operation or maintenance of the Rest Area by the Rest Area Operator. Typical products include but are not limited to landscape materials or building supplies.  (9) “Rest Area” — A roadside area separated from the main travel way and under the control of the Department. A Rest Area may include rest rooms, drinking water, and other facilities needed for the rest and safety of motorists. For the purposes of Division 31 rules, when a Rest Area is sited on both sides of the highway, the two sides will be considered as separate Rest Areas.  (10) “Rest Area Operator” — The Department or Travel Information Council or other entity responsible for management of the Rest Area by agreement with the Department.  (11) “Sponsorship Agreement” —An agreement between a Participant and the Rest Area Operator where the Participant agrees to provide a Contribution in exchange for the placement of an Acknowledgement Sign in the Rest Area or on the mainline of the adjoining state highway. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Federal Policy 5160.1A, ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 366.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 366.205 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
