



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 HORSE RACING REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES 
 462-150-0080 
 Order of Finish; Weighing In; Objections and Disqualification 
 
 (1) The winner of a race shall be the horse whose nose first reaches the finish line with the jockey aboard, unless the horse is disqualified by the stewards for ineligibility or other good cause. The decision of the board of stewards as to the order of finish shall be final.  (2) When two or more horses reach the finish line at the same time, or the photofinish photographs do not clearly establish which of the horses reached the finish line first, the stewards may declare a dead heat. When horses run a dead heat, all money and prizes to which the horses would have been entitled if it were not a dead heat shall be divided equally among them. When a dead heat is for first place, each horse finishing first in the dead heat shall be deemed a winner, and shall be liable as a winner for any penalty which attaches to the winning of the race, but only in the amount of winnings actually received.  (3) If the dividing owners cannot agree as to which of them is to have a cup or other prize which cannot be divided, the question shall be determined by lot in the presence of one or more of the stewards.  (4) The time recorded for the first horse to cross the finish line with the jockey aboard shall be the official time of the race.  (5) If there is a mechanical failure of the gate, and horses are allowed leave at irregular intervals instead of all horses leaving at one time, the stewards shall decide whether the race is official or whether to declare "no race", and which horses, if any, will be deemed non-starters. In the event of a mechanical failure, interference during the running of the race which affects the majority of the horses in such race, or any other unusual circumstance or situation that the stewards determine resulted in an unfair race for the majority of the horses in the race, the stewards may declare the race as "no race." When, in the opinion of the stewards, a race cannot be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the commission, they shall cancel and call off such race. Any wagers on such races called off, canceled or declared as "no race" shall be refunded, and no purse, prize or stakes shall be awarded. A race shall be canceled if no horse finishes the race.  (6) Weighing In, Unsaddling:  (a) Weigh In. Upon completion of a race each jockey shall ride promptly to the winners circle and dismount. He/she shall then present himself/herself to the clerk of scales to be weighed in. If a jockey is prevented from riding his/her mount to the winner's circle because of accident or illness either to himself/herself or his/her horse he/she may walk or be carried to the scales unless excused by the stewards.  (b) Unsaddling. Each jockey upon completion of a race must return to the winners circle and must unsaddle his/her own horse, unless excused by the stewards.  (c) Removing Horse's Equipment. No person except the valet-attendant for each mount is permitted to assist the jockey in removing the horse's equipment that is included in the jockey's weight, unless the stewards permit otherwise. To weigh in each jockey shall carry to the scales all pieces of equipment with which he/she weighed out. Thereafter he/she may hand the equipment to the valet-attendant.  (d) Under Weight. When any horse places first, second, third or fourth in a race, and thereafter the horse's jockey is weighed in short by more than two pounds of the weight of which he/she was weighed out, his/her mount may be disqualified and all purse monies forfeited.  (e) Over Weight. No jockey may be weighed in more than two pounds over his/her declared weight but consideration shall be given for excess weight caused by rain or mud.  (f) If a jockey does not present himself or herself to be weighed in, is guilty of any fraudulent practice with respect to weight or weighing, or if unless the jockey or horse is ill, injured, or disabled, the jockey dismounts before reaching the scales or dismounts without permission, or if the jockey touches (except accidentally) any person or thing other than the jockey's own equipment before weighing, the clerk of scales shall report it to the stewards, and the stewards may disqualify the horse and place it last, and the jockey and any other licensee involved may be fined or suspended.  (7) Objections, Inquiries and Disqualifications:  (a) Objections which can be made prior to a race must be made to the stewards in writing, must be signed by the objector, and must be filed with the stewards prior to post time. No objection based upon the distance of a race shall be made after the start of the race.  (b) Objections based upon an occurrence during the running of a race must be made before the order of finish has been declared "official”. Objections as to what occurs in a race with respect to the performance of a horse or jockey must be made by the owner, trainer, or jockey of the horse which is aggrieved. However, the stewards may take any appropriate action even if no formal objection is made.  (c) Permission of the stewards is necessary before an objection may be withdrawn.  (d) The stewards may disqualify any horse which is the subject of fraudulent or corrupt practices, or any horse whose jockey has committed a violation of the rules of horse racing. A horse which interferes with, impedes or intimidates another horse may be disqualified by the stewards unless the impeded horse or jockey was partly at fault or the interference was wholly caused by some other horse or jockey.  (e) If a horse which has won or been placed in a race is disqualified after a valid objection or otherwise, the stewards shall declare a new order of finish as, in their sole discretion, they deem just.  (f) The stewards must decide every objection properly filed which pertains to a race. In cases of fraud or willful deception, the time limitations for filing objections shall not apply.  (g) If a horse is disqualified, any other horse in the race owned wholly or in part by the same interest or trained by the same trainer may also be disqualified.  (h) Pending a decision on an objection/inquiry, any prize which the horse subject to the objection/inquiry may have won, and any money held by the race meet licensee as the price of a horse claimed in the race (if involved in the determination of the objection/inquiry) shall be withheld until the objection/inquiry is determined. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 2-2011, f. 9-23-11, cert. ef. 10-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 2-2009, f. 8-24-09, cert. ef. 10-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 2-2008, f. & cert. ef. 9-30-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 5-2002, f. 12-6-02, cert. ef. 1-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
