



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 650 RECREATION PARKS AND ORGANIZATIONAL CAMPS 
 918-650-0035 
 Plans and Specifications 
 
 (1) Plans. With each application for a plan review the applicant must submit two sets of construction plans and specifications. Plans and specifications must be drawn to scale, of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and to show in detail that the construction will conform to all relevant laws, rules and regulations of the State of Oregon pertaining to recreation parks and organizational camps.  NOTE: The construction shown on these plans may contain construction details required by other rules or regulations in order to aid other agencies in determining compliance with their coordinating regulations.  (2) Design. All plans must be designed in accordance with the requirements of the various codes and administrative rules and, where required, must be designed by a registered design professional.  (3) Plan Format and Sequence. The following plan format and sequence specification are guidelines for both the designer and the plan reviewer. Deviations are permitted from strict compliance with the plan format and sequence specifications when such deviation will produce the same result:  (a) The cover sheet of each set of plans must give the following:  (A) The name of the recreation park or organizational camp and the location (vicinity map);  (B) The name of the owner;  (C) The name of the operator;  (D) The name of the person who prepared or submitted the plans;  (E) The symbols used; and  (F) The design maximum occupancy load for organizational camps.  (b) The plot plan (on a separate sheet) must include:  (A) Both proposed and existing construction; and  (B) A scale drawing of the general layout of the entire recreation park or organizational camp showing property survey monuments in the area of work and distances from park or camp boundaries to public utilities located outside the park or camp (indicated by arrows without reference to scale).  EXCEPTION: When the work involves an addition to, or a remodeling of, an existing recreation park or organizational camp, the plot plan must show the facilities related to the addition and/or the facilities to be remodeled.  (4)(a) The following features must be clearly shown and identified:  (A) The permanent buildings (dwellings, mobile homes, washrooms, recreation buildings, and similar structures);  (B) The fixed facilities in each space (fire pits, fireplaces or cooking facilities);  (C) The property line boundaries and survey monuments in the area of work;  (D) The location and designation of each space by number, letter or name; and  (E) Plans for combination parks must also show which portions of the parks are dedicated to camp ground, organizational camp, mobile home park, picnic park, recreational vehicle park and joint use.  (b) Park and organizational camp utility systems must be clearly shown and identified on a separate sheet:  (A) Location of space sewer connections, space water connections and service electrical outlets;  (B) Location and source of domestic water supply;  (C) Location of water and sewer lines (showing type, size and material);  (D) Park or camp street layout and connections to public street(s);  (E) Disposal systems, such as septic tanks and drain fields, recreational vehicle dump stations, gray water waste disposal sumps, washdown facilities, sand filters, and sewer connections;  (F) Fire protection facilities, such as fire hydrants, fire lines, tanks and reservoirs, hose boxes and apparatus storage structures;  (G) Solid waste disposal system and solid waste collection features, such as refuse can platforms and supports, and wash-down facilities; and  (H) Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) tanks and gas lines.  (c) Park Topography. Park topography must be shown in the area of work when any existing grade or slope exceeds five percent. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 455.020, 455.110 & 455.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 455.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 26-2011, f. 9-30-11, cert. ef. 10-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCA 10-1987, f. & ef. 9-18-87, Renumbered from 814-029-0080 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
