



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 STATEWIDE RULES 
 250-010-0095 
 Application for Marine Events 
 
 (1) For the purpose of this rule the term Marine Event includes Regattas, Boat Races, Marine Parades, Tournaments or Exhibitions which are organized boating water events of limited duration conducted according to a prearranged schedule. Predicted log races, cruises and/or other marine events conducted by individual groups, which do not introduce extra or unusual water safety hazards are exempted from the provisions of this rule.  (2) An individual or organization planning to sponsor or conduct a marine event which, by its nature, circumstances or location, will introduce extra or unusual hazards to water safety on waters of this state, shall submit a completed application to the State Marine Board at least 30 days prior to the event. Examples of conditions which are deemed to introduce extra or unusual hazards include, but are not limited to: an inherently hazardous competition, the customary presence of commercial or pleasure craft in the area, any obstruction to navigation which may result, and/or the expected accumulation of spectators or spectator craft. A completed application contains the signatures of the federal, state and/or local agencies specified on the application.  (3) The sponsor shall submit an advance copy of the application as soon as the event date(s) and location(s) have been determined by the sponsor. This copy will be without endorsements and serves to reserve the date(s) and location(s) until the completed application is received. Marine Event date(s) and location(s) are reserved on a first come, first serve basis.  (4) If the sponsoring organization is requesting Coast Guard Auxiliary assistance a “Request for Coast Guard Auxiliary Safety Patrol Services” application shall be completed and filed with the Marine Board after the sponsoring organization has made arrangements with the local Coast Guard flotilla.  (5) The agency shall authorize or deny the permit and so notify the sponsor and other interested agencies.  (6) The agency, in authorizing an event, may condition the authorization subject to meeting certain requirements as specified by responsible federal, state or local agencies. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 830.375 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MB 7-1982, f. 10-13-82, ef. 10-15-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
