



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 LONG-TERM CARE SERVICE PRIORITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS SERVED 
 411-015-0007 
 Instrumental Activities of Daily Living 
 
 (1) "Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL)" or "Self-Management tasks" consists of housekeeping including laundry, shopping, transportation, medication management and meal preparation.  (2) Evaluation of the individual’s needs for assistance in Instrumental Activities of Daily Living is based on:  (a) The individual’s abilities rather than the services provided; and  (b) How the individual functioned during the thirty days prior to the assessment date, with consideration of how the person is likely to function in the thirty days following the assessment date; and  (c) Evidence of the actual or predicted need for assistance of another person within the assessment time frame and can not be based on potential or preventative needs.  (3) "Independent" means the individual does not meet the definition of "Assist" or "Full Assist" for IADLs as defined in this rule.  (4) "Housekeeping" means the ability to maintain the interior of the individual’s residence for the purpose of health and safety. Housekeeping includes activities such as wiping surfaces, cleaning floors, making the individual’s bed, cleaning dishes, taking out the garbage and dusting. Housekeeping does not include pet care or home repair. Only the housekeeping activities related to the eligible individual’s needs may be considered in housekeeping. Housekeeping needs of roommates, guests, family members or other residents of the household can not be considered.  (a) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some tasks of housekeeping without the assistance of another person.  (b) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted.  (5) "Laundry" means the ability to gather and wash soiled clothing and linens, use washing machines and dryers, hang clothes, fold and put away clean clothing and linens. For service planning, laundry needs are included in Housekeeping.  (a) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some tasks of laundry without the assistance of another person.  (b) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted.  (6) "Meal Preparation" means the ability to safely prepare food to meet the basic nutritional requirements of the individual. It includes cutting food and placing food, dishes and utensils within reach for eating.  (a) Meal Preparation for breakfast, lunch and dinner/supper is assessed for each meal.  (b) When assessing and developing service plans, dinner/supper is considered as the individual’s main meal of the day, regardless of the time the meal is served or eaten.  (c) An individual who needs assistance with meal preparation and who meets the criteria established in OAR 411-040-0000 may receive home delivered meals, if available in the individual's local area. Even with home delivered meal service, an individual may still meet the assistance or full assistance meal preparation criteria in this rule if the individual is unable to accomplish some or all of the meal preparation tasks.  (d) Set-up for tube feeding is assessed in Eating per OAR 411-015-0005.  (e) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some tasks of meal preparation without the assistance of another person.  (f) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted.  (7) "Medication Management" means the ability to order, organize and administer prescribed medications. Administering prescribed medications includes pills, drops, ointments, creams, injections, inhalers and suppositories unrelated to bowel care. Administering as a paid service means set-up, reminding, cueing, checking for effect and monitoring for choking while taking medications. Oxygen management is included in medication management. Oxygen management means assisting with the administration of oxygen, monitoring the equipment and assuring adequate oxygen supply.  (a) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some tasks of medication management without the assistance of another person.  (b) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted.  (8) "Shopping" means the ability to purchase goods that are necessary for the health and safety of the individual being assessed and are related to the individual’s service plan. Goods that are related to the service plan include items such as food (meal preparation), clothing (dressing), and medicine (medication management).  (a) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some tasks of shopping without the assistance of another person.  (b) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted.  (9) "Transportation" means, assuming transportation is available, the ability to arrange rides, the ability to get in or out of a vehicle, and the need for assistance during a ride. The need for assistance during a ride means assistance for a physical or cognitive need such as spasticity, memory impairment, aspiration, choking or seizure. Transportation as a paid service means in accordance with a plan of care, assisting an individual during a ride, assisting an individual to get in or out of a vehicle, or arranging a ride for an individual. Transportation does not include mileage reimbursement.  (a) Assist: Even with assistive devices, the individual is unable to accomplish some of the tasks of transportation without the assistance of another person.  (b) Full Assist: Full assist means the individual needs assistance of another person through all phases of the activity, every time the activity is attempted. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 16-2006, f. 4-27-06, cert. ef. 5-1-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
