



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 770 PLUMBING PRODUCT APPROVALS 
 918-770-0230 
 Special Deputy Certification Procedures 
 
 (1) A special deputy inspector may determine if a plumbing product meets applicable minimum health and safety standards adopted by the Board by:  (a) Examining the product and its components for compliance with applicable product standards approved by the Board;  (b) Reviewing the assembly of labeled, listed, recognized or noncertified components for correct and applicable application and installation;  (c) Reviewing code compliance; and  (d) Requiring “production type” testing where required by the applicable product safety standard adopted by the Board.  (2) A certification label is attached by the special deputy inspector on the product, or placement of a certification label is authorized.  (3) Where production line products are accepted for special deputy certification, the special deputy may examine the product to approved standards, determine whether the product meets minimum health and safety standards and review production quality control processes. The special deputy may authorize attachment of labels to all future products manufactured in conformance with the manufacturer’s quality control plan approved by the special deputy. The special deputy may make periodic visits to any manufacturing facility to verify that the product continues to be manufactured in accordance with an approved quality control plan. Certifications of production line products approved by a special deputy shall be conditioned on the product continuing to be manufactured in conformance with the product specifications and manufacturing requirements as originally approved by the special deputy. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 447.152 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 447.152 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 10-1997, f. 7-16-97, cert. ef. 10-1-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
