



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
 660-009-0015 
 Economic Opportunities Analysis
 
 
 Cities and counties must review and, as necessary, amend their comprehensive plans to provide economic opportunities analyses containing the information described in sections (1) to (4) of this rule. This analysis will compare the demand for land for industrial and other employment uses to the existing supply of such land. 

 (1) Review of National, State, Regional, County and Local Trends. The economic opportunities analysis must identify the major categories of industrial or other employment uses that could reasonably be expected to locate or expand in the planning area based on information about national, state, regional, county or local trends. This review of trends is the principal basis for estimating future industrial and other employment uses as described in section (4) of this rule. A use or category of use could reasonably be expected to expand or locate in the planning area if the area possesses the appropriate locational factors for the use or category of use. Cities and counties are strongly encouraged to analyze trends and establish employment projections in a geographic area larger than the planning area and to determine the percentage of employment growth and target industries reasonably expected to be captured for the planning area based on the assessment of community economic development potential pursuant to section (4) of this rule. 

 (2) Identification of Required Site Types. The economic opportunities analysis must identify the number of sites by type reasonably expected to be needed to accommodate the expected employment growth based on the site characteristics typical of expected uses. The economic opportunities analysis must demonstrate how expected employment growth is expected to be accommodated on the identified sites. Cities and counties are encouraged to examine existing firms in the planning area to identify the types of sites that may be needed for expansion. Industrial or other employment uses with compatible site characteristics may be grouped together into common site categories. 

 (3) Inventory of Industrial and Other Employment Lands. Comprehensive plans for all areas within urban growth boundaries must include an inventory of vacant and developed lands within the planning area designated for industrial or other employment use. 

 (a) For sites inventoried under this section, plans must provide the following information: 

 (A) The description, including site characteristics, of vacant or developed sites within each plan or zoning district; 

 (B) A description of any development constraints or infrastructure needs that affect the buildable area of sites in the inventory; and 

 (C) For cities and counties within a Metropolitan Planning Organization, the inventory must also include the approximate total acreage and percentage of sites within each plan or zoning district that comprise the short-term supply of land. 

 (b) When comparing current land supply to the projected demand, cities and counties may inventory contiguous lots or parcels together that are within a discrete plan or zoning district. 

 (c) Cities and counties that adopt objectives or policies providing for prime industrial land pursuant to OAR 660-009-0020(6) and 660-009-0025(8) must identify and inventory any vacant or developed prime industrial land according to section (3)(a) of this rule. 

 (4) Assessment of Community Economic Development Potential. The economic opportunities analysis must estimate the types and amounts of industrial and other employment uses likely to occur in the planning area. The estimate must be based on information generated in response to sections (1) to (3) of this rule and must consider the planning area's economic advantages and disadvantages. Relevant economic advantages and disadvantages to be considered may include but are not limited to: 

 (a) Location, size and buying power of markets; 

 (b) Availability of transportation facilities for access and freight mobility; 

 (c) Public facilities and public services; 

 (d) Labor market factors; 

 (e) Access to suppliers and utilities; 

 (f) Necessary support services; 

 (g) Limits on development due to federal and state environmental protection laws; and 

 (h) Educational and technical training programs. 

 (5) Local governments identifying target industries and designating sites in an economic opportunities analysis may rely on former or current industry classifications if the NAICS is updated after submittal of a notice pursuant to ORS 197.610 and OAR 660-018-0020 of a proposed change to a comprehensive plan or land use regulation. 

 (6) Cities and counties are strongly encouraged to assess community economic development potential through a visioning or some other public input based process in conjunction with state agencies. Cities and counties are strongly encouraged to use the assessment of community economic development potential to form the community economic development objectives pursuant to OAR 660-009-0020(1)(a). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 16-2024, amend filed 12/20/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 7-2005, f. 12-13-05, cert. ef. 1-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1986, f. & ef. 10-10-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
