



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0065 
 County Health — Public/Community Health Records
 
 
 (1) Alcohol and Drug Service Records: Series documents services provided to clients in alcohol and drug treatment programs, including residential treatment and care, outpatient services, detoxification, DUII (Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants) education and treatment, sex offender treatment, methadone treatment, and other services. Records may include clinical records or patient files including assessment records, treatment plans, progress notes, treatment reviews, termination reports, and medical records. Minimum retention: 6 years after last service or until 21st birthday, whichever is longer. 

 (2) Board of Health Reports: Series documents the activities of the county health departments such as public or community health, mental health, environmental health, family mediation, alcohol and drug, developmental disabilities, deputy medical examiner, and fiscal administration. Records may include semi-annual reports to the County Board of Health prepared by the various departments including summarizations of department activities and concerns, as well as reports on special topics such as AIDS and other issues. Reports may be sent to the Board of County Commissioners. Minimum retention: (a) Reports filed with County Commissioners, 10 years; (b) Reports not filed with County Commissioners, permanent. 

 (3) Car Seat Rental Service Records: Series documents the rental of car seats for infants and young children. Minimum retention: (a) If car seat returned, until return of car seat; (b) If car seat is not returned, 5 years. 

 (4) Communicable Disease Intake Reports: Series documents persons with communicable diseases such as sexually transmitted diseases, HIV, tuberculosis, food-borne diseases, and others. Information from this intake report may be transferred to the investigation report or the intake report may be attached to the investigation report. Minimum retention: 1 year. 

 (5) Communicable Disease Investigation Reports: Series documents investigations into reports of communicable diseases. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (6) Communicable Disease Logs: Series documents communicable diseases by providing a summary of information taken from the intake report. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (7) Complaint Correspondence Records: Series documents formal and informal complaints involving extended investigation and/or litigation concerning environmental health issues, staff or division policies, or other perceived health problems in the community. Records may include letters, memoranda, hearing transcripts, Board of County Commissioner minutes, and other records which document or add significant information to the complaint. Minimum retention: 10 years after resolution. 

 (8) Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Disclosure Notice Records: Series documents notification to clients about the agency’s practices regarding client medical records and information under HIPAA. Records may include notification forms and related documentation. Minimum retention: 6 years after last service. 

 (9) HIV Test Records: Series documents the results of anonymous or confidential HIV tests. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (10) Immunization and Injection Records: Series documents immunizations received by infants, children, and adults from county health services. Minimum retention: (a) Immunization records, 10 years; (b) ITARS records [ended circa 2000], 25 years from date of last service; (c) All other records, 6 years after last service or until 21st birthday, whichever is longer. 

 (11) Immunization Authorization Records: Series documents authorizations and parental/guardian consent for children and other patients to receive immunizations. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (12) Interpreter Service Records: Series documents the scheduling of interpreters for needed county truancy departments and the services provided for payment purposes. Records may include interpreter scheduling and request forms, on-call invoices, timesheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (13) Laboratory Log Records: Series documents laboratory tests performed for patients such as hematocrits, urinalysis, GC cultures, wet mounts, serologies, blood typing and Rh factor, and pregnancy tests. Records may include documentation of completion of the test, test results, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (14) Maternal-Child Health (Children and Family) Service Referral Reports: Series documents referrals involving maternal-child health concerns from other providers, such as physicians or hospitals. If services are provided to the patient, the referral report becomes part of the Public Health Service Records. Minimum retention: (a) If services provided, transfer to Public Health Service Records; (b) All other cases, 2 years. 

 (15) Medicaid Financial Screening Records: Series documents the screening of clients who appear eligible for Medicaid for a final eligibility determination by Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS). Records may include Medicaid Financial Screening Form, lists of clients, ODHS forms, narrative notes completed by screeners, private insurance records, and automobile accident injury histories. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (16) Medical Examiner Case Files: Series documents investigations into deaths by the county medical examiner, coroner, or other designated official. Series contains records on any deceased person that requires medical examiner involvement. Records include the autopsy report and the medical examiner’s report. Records may also include police reports, family interviews, personal identification, and disposition of unclaimed funds. Minimum retention: (a) Pre-1965 Coroner’s Reports, permanent; (b) Post-1965 case files, 25 years; (c) No case file developed, 5 years. 

 (17) Pharmacy Log Records: Series documents the dispensing or issuing of pharmaceutical medications. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (18) Public Health Service Index (Master Patient Index) Cards: Series documents patients served and the services provided to them. Separate indexes may be kept for different programs. Minimum retention: 25 years after date of last service. 

 (19) Public Health Service Records: Series documents the services given to patients in specialized programs such as the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) nutrition program; clinical services (including tuberculosis, HIV, sexually transmitted diseases, hepatitis, and immunizations); dental services; sero-wellness; family planning and pregnancy testing; car-seat rental; maternal-child health nursing services concerning high risk pregnancies, high risk infants, or young children with major health problems or disabilities; and public health field nursing services. Records may include reports; professional notations; laboratory reports; treatment and x-ray authorizations; releases of information; clinical or medical records, progress notes, and records of visits; and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Outpatient physical therapy and speech-language pathology service records, 6 years after last service or until 21st birthday, whichever is longer; (b) Dental patient records, 7 years after last service; (c) All other outpatient service records, 6 years after last service; (d) Counties participating in the Medicare Advantage Program, all records 10 years after contract expires (42 CFR 422.504). 

 (20) Sero-Positive Wellness Program Charts: Series documents the services and treatment provided to people with HIV. Records may include charts documenting service and treatment, laboratory results, work plans, and related documentation. The records may be transferred to the Oregon Public Health Division upon closure, or they may become part of the patient’s clinical file in the Public Health Service Records. Minimum retention: 6 years after last service. 

 (21) Sexually Transmitted Disease Epidemiological Reports: Series documents the investigation into sexually transmitted diseases. Records include The Confidential Sexually Transmitted Disease Case Report, copies of which may be forwarded to the Oregon Public Health Division. Individuals who are seen and treated at STD clinics will have a clinical file in the Public Health Service Records. Minimum retention: (a) If patient is treated, transfer to Public Health Service Records; (b) If patient is not treated, 5 years. 

 (22) Tuberculosis Client Records (Tuberculosis Registry): Series documents patients with active and inactive cases of tuberculosis. Records may include epidemiological reports and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Active cases where death date is known, life of individual; (b) Active cases where death date is unknown, 70 years after last service; (c) Inactive cases with patients on preventive drug therapy, 6 years after last service. 

 (23) Tuberculosis Negative Cases Epidemiological Reports: Series documents service to patients with negative tuberculosis tests, defined as patients with positive skin tests who do not have the disease and have not received treatment. Records may include individual patient documentation, x-ray reports, skin test results, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years, destroy reports when recorded in Tuberculosis Client Records (Tuberculosis Registry) . 

 (24) Tuberculosis X-Ray Authorization Records: Series documents authorizations and parental consent for children and other patients to receive tuberculosis x-rays. Minimum retention: 6 years after last service. 

 (25) Tuberculosis X-Ray Records: Series documents x-rays used to screen and diagnose cases of tuberculosis. Records may include registration cards, medical history, x-ray results, assessment of condition, treatment plan, medication ordered, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Active cases where death date is known, life of individual; (b) Active cases where death date is unknown, 70 years after last service; (c) Inactive cases with patients on preventive drug therapy, 6 years after last service. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 5-2006, f. & cert. ef. 12-15-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
