



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-0405 
 Exits and Emergency Action Plan 
 
 (1) Application. This does not apply to agricultural labor housing, agricultural buildings or mobile workplaces, such as vehicles or vessels. This applies to non-agricultural type buildings like offices and warehouses where employees spend most of their work time.  (2) Definitions.  (a) Exit. The part of the exit route, separate from other areas, that is a protected way out of a work area.  (b) Exit route. A continuous, unobstructed path from anywhere in a work area to a safe outside place. Exit routes are three dimensional.  (3) General.  (a) There must be permanent, unobstructed exit routes to get out of work areas safely during emergencies.  (b) There must be two or more exit routes depending on the size and layout of the work area and the number of people involved. A single exit route is acceptable only if all workers can get out through it safely during an emergency. Locate multiple exit routes apart from each other.  (4) Design.  (a) There must be a clear and unobstructed access and exit to any location more than 4 feet above or below the floor. Access may be by a ladder, stairs or ramp that complies with these standards.  (b) There must be unobstructed access to exit routes.  (A) Exit routes must not pass through or into lockable rooms or dead ends.  (B) Exit routes must be mostly level or have stairs or ramps.  (c) Exits must open from the inside without keys, tools or special knowledge. Devices that lock only from the outside are acceptable. There must be nothing on an exit door that could hinder its use during an emergency.  (d) An exit route must be able to handle the maximum number of persons allowed in the area it serves. Exit capacity must not decrease if the direction of travel changes.  (e) Exit routes must be at least 6 feet 8 inches high at all points.  (f) Exit routes must be at least 28 inches wide between handrails and wider if needed to handle the expected occupant load.  (g) Nothing can project into an exit route that reduces its minimum height or width.  (h) Exit routes must minimize danger to workers during emergencies.  (i) Exit routes must have adequate lighting.  (5) Marking.  (a) There must be exit signs at all emergency exits, except those that are obviously and clearly identifiable. Install additional directional signs to exits where necessary.  (b) If workers could mistake a nonexit for an exit, mark it, “Not an Exit” or mark it to indicate its real use.  (6) Special situations.  (a) Exit doors serving hazardous areas must swing in the direction of exit and open in a way that does not obstruct exit passageways. Do not allow anything to obstruct or pre- vent the use of an exit. During fire or panic, it must be easy to open all escape exit doors and windows from the inside.  (b) Rooms subject to extremes in temperature or with toxic atmospheres must have at least one door that opens from the inside. If this door is lockable from the outside, lighting and a set of instructions for opening the door must be inside the room on or near the door. It must be easy to find equipment needed to open the door from the inside. Also, inside the room there must be a way to communicate or a control that operates an alarm outside the building, or if other employees are on duty 24 hours a day, outside the room. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 9-2006, f. & cert. ef. 9-22-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
