



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 305 ELECTRICAL CODES AND STANDARDS 
 918-305-0450 
 Electrical Products 
 
 (1) The service equipment of a system substation powered by AC shall be certified by an electrical testing laboratory or field evaluation firm approved by the State of Oregon.  (2) The DC transformation, rectification and distribution equipment within a system substation, including the traction power transformer, shall meet ANSI standards where applicable. Compliance shall be demonstrated by the operating entity by:  (a) Furnishing the required ANSI test reports upon request;  (b) Demonstrating the equipment is certified by an electrical testing agency approved by this state; or  (c) Having the equipment otherwise approved by the division as meeting applicable standards. Where there are no applicable ANSI standards for such electrical products, an exception may be granted by the division. All DC distribution equipment outside a substation is exempt from product certification.  (3) All electrical products and components installed for signaling systems are exempt from electrical product certification, the Electrical Specialty Code and the National Electrical Code. The main power supplies shall be certified by an electrical testing agency approved by this state as meeting applicable ANSI standards or otherwise be approved by the division. Where there are no applicable ANSI standards for such electrical products, an exception may be granted by the division.  (4) All electrical products installed for communications systems or components to such systems are exempt from regulation under this rule, the Electrical Specialty Code and the National Electrical Code. The main power supply shall be certified by an electrical testing agency approved by this state, or otherwise be approved by the division as meeting applicable ANSI standards. Where there are no applicable ANSI standards for such electrical products, an exception may be granted by the division.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.950 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.950 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 7-2000, f. 3-15-00, cert. ef. 4-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
