



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 STATEWIDE RULES 
 250-010-0075 
 Boating Safety/Education Assistance Program 
 
 (1) The Board is authorized by ORS 830.110 (1), (4), (7), and (8) to carry out the provisions of boating safety education. The Boating Safety/Education Assistance Program provides funds for new, unique or innovative ideas or programs to promote safe boating and increase youth involvement in recreational boating.  (2) The Board may adopt policies, guidelines and procedure manuals to implement these rules. Assistance funds will be provided only to participants who meet eligibility guidelines. The Program process is competitive in nature. Applications are reviewed and evaluated on the basis of applicant’s eligibility, project feasibility, merit and effectiveness and the proposal’s compatibility with goals, needs and priorities of the Board.  (3) Applications will be accepted from nonprofit corporations or organizations. The application will be submitted to the Agency as described in the “Let’s Go Boating” Assistance Program Manual.  (A) Following Marine Board staff consideration, the applicant will be advised in writing of the Marine Board Director’s or designee’s decision. If the application is denied, Marine Board staff will provide specific notice indicating the reasons.  (B) Upon application approval, Marine Board staff will award a written contract stipulating project specifications and expectations. The recipient must sign and return the contract to the Agency within forty-five (45) days or award may be rescinded.  (4) An annual allotment of funds is available each biennial period as prescribed by the Board Proposals requesting more than the amounts prescribed may be considered on a case-by-case basis based on available funds.  (A) Only items approved by the Marine Board Director or designee and identified in the scope of work from the recipient’s finalized contract’s itemized cost estimates or amendments are eligible for funding. Eligible project costs are those identified specifically with and charged directly to a particular scope item.  (B) In determining approval, Marine Board staff will give priority to those applicants providing their program or services free to the general public.  (C) Applications for funding are accepted, reviewed and considered on an annual basis set by the Board. Applicants should contact the Agency for program application deadlines and availability of funds.  (D) The Board requires projects or programs to be completed within the timeframe set by the Board. Under extraordinary circumstances, the Marine Board Director or designee may authorize project extensions up to ninety (90) days.  (5) Each approved project must clearly acknowledge the use of Marine Board funds. This will be done as appropriate in print or by sign. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830.110 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 2-2008, f. 4-11-08, cert. ef. 5-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 14-2007(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 12-10-07 thru 5-31-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
