



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DISTRICTS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL RECORDS 
 166-400-0015 
 Curriculum and Instruction Records 
 
 (1) Course Descriptions Records document the list and description of school courses offered to students. Information may include course content descriptions; number of units’ granted; required or elective status; goals, competencies and standards for standard and modified diplomas; and other information relative to educational plans. Minimum retention: 10 years after school year in which records were created  (2) Curriculum Development Records Records document the development and approval process for staff or faculty to develop or revise program curriculum or to update curriculum strategies and instruction. Records may include but are not limited to support documentation, reviews, reports, approvals, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after superseded or obsolete.  (3) Instructional Materials Selection and Adoption Records Records document the selection and adoption of textbooks and other instructional materials by schools, districts, and ESDs. Records may include but are not limited to adoption authorization records; lists of state adopted textbooks including titles of books, authors, and publishers; and related documentation. SEE ALSO Supplemental Materials Selection and Adoption Records in the Library and Media Records section. Minimum retention: 6 years after school year in which records were created.  (4) Teacher Daily Instructional Plans Records document the instruction of students as planned on a daily basis by teachers. Records may include but are not limited to instructional plans and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: 1 year after school year in which records were created.  (5) Talented and Gifted Program (TAG) Records Records document district and school efforts to provide TAG education programs and opportunities for students identified as Talanted and Gifted under state guidelines. The records document district and ESD efforts to provide Talented and Gifted Education instruction that challenges high-end learners and meets each student’s learning needs. Resources and support materials for districts, schools, teachers, parents, and students are included. SEE ALSO Educational Programs Student Records in Student Education Records section for individual participating student records. Minimum retention: 5 years after school year in which records were created. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 & Other Auth. Code of Federal Regulations Title 34 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 166-406-0010, OSA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
