



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 SALMON AND TROUT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM AND RIPARIAN LANDS TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM 
 635-009-0240 
 Grant Agreement
 
 
 (1) Project sponsors, other than the Department, shall enter into a Grant Agreement with the Department prior to undertaking the project. The project sponsor shall obtain all necessary water rights, access agreements, easements, use permits or any other permits needed to undertake the project. Copies shall be provided prior to commencing the project. 

 (2) No funds shall be disbursed under a Grant Agreement until the Department receives satisfactory evidence that necessary permits and licenses have been granted and required documents submitted. 

 (3) Advance funds may be released upon presentation of a detailed estimate of expenses for a time period specified in the Grant Agreement. No additional funds will be released until all receipts for expenditures of a previous fund release are submitted. 

 (4) The project sponsor shall account for funds distributed by the Department, using project expense forms provided by the Department.  Funds may be released upon presentation of a completed Fund Release Request Form accompanied by proof of completion of specific work elements of the project as identified in the Grant Agreement. Proof of completion may be made through presentation of paid receipts of invoices for materials of contracted labor, or inspection reports. 

 (5) The project sponsor shall agree to complete the project as approved by the Commission and within the time frame specified on the Grant Agreement. 

 (6) The project sponsor shall file a written request for permission to amend or expand the project or the time schedule including the rationale for the requested change.  Proposed modifications shall be submitted and approved prior to the beginning of any work proposed in the modification. 

 (7) The project sponsor shall submit a project report at the completion of the project describing the work done. 

 (8) The project sponsor shall allow Commission, Board members, or Department staff, access to the project to monitor and evaluate the project. 

 (9) The project sponsor shall maintain the project for a period of time as deemed appropriate by the Commission. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 512 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 512 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 170-2019, amend filed 12/09/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 86-1989, f. 8-31-89, cert. ef. 9-1-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
