



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 56 IMPORTATION, POSSESSION, CONFINEMENT, TRANSPORTATION AND SALE OF NONNATIVE WILDLIFE 
 635-056-0075 
 Controlled Fish Species
 
 
 (1) Controlled Fish 

 (a) Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella): Grass carp may be released into water bodies within Oregon only pursuant to the issuance of a permit from the Department under sub-section (1)(a)(A) or if identified in sub-section (1)(a)(B). Complete permit applications shall be submitted to Department headquarters at least 60 days before proposed stocking. A fee of $250.00 (plus a $2.00 license agent fee) shall be charged for each Grass carp permit issued. 

 (A) The following restrictions and standards will govern the issuance of grass carp permits: 

 (i) Stocking will occur only in water bodies which are: 

 (I) Completely within private land; or 

 (II) On land owned or controlled by special districts defined in ORS 198.010. 

 (ii) Stocking will occur only in the following types of water bodies: (I) Lakes, ponds, or reservoirs less than 10 acres; or (II) Ditches and canals. 

 (iii) Public use of the water body must be restricted to prevent removal of grass carp (by angling or otherwise) by unauthorized persons. At a minimum, the water body must be closed to angling and other use by the general public. 

 (iv) Stocking shall not detrimentally affect any population of species listed as sensitive, threatened or endangered by the federal or state government. 

 (v) Stocking shall occur only in water bodies with fish screens approved by the Department. Such screens shall have screen openings 1 inch or less for fish 12–19 inches total length and screen openings 2 inches or less for fish over 19 inches total length. Screens shall be inspected and approved by the Department before a permit will be issued. The applicant must comply with fish passage requirements (OAR 635, division 412); given grass carp screening requirements, this entails applying for and receiving a waiver or exemption from passage requirements if grass carp will be stocked into waters where native migratory fish are or were historically present. 

 (vi) Stocking will not be allowed in water bodies within 100-year floodplains (as delineated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on federal Flood Insurance Rate Maps) during times of potential flood. Times of potential flood are January 1 through July 31 in watersheds east of the Cascades and October 15 through May 31 in watersheds west of the Cascades. Grass carp will be removed from water bodies in a 100-year floodplain and held or disposed of during times of potential flood. If grass carp will be held and not disposed of, they shall be held at a permitted site outside the 100-year floodplain. Applications for sites within a 100-year floodplain shall contain a detailed removal plan which shall receive Department approval. 

 (vii) Grass carp may only be purchased and imported from approved suppliers outside Oregon. Grass carp may not be propagated or held for further distribution within Oregon. Department pathologists shall approve suppliers. Approval will be based on ability to provide grass carp free of Asian tapeworms and meet health and disease requirements according to OAR 635-007-0555 through 635-007-0585. 

 (viii) Grass carp imported into Oregon shall be: 

 (I) Sterile triploids. Documentation from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that each fish is triploid must be submitted to the Department prior to release; 

 (II) At least 12 inches long; 

 (III) Tagged with a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag of frequency 134.2-kilohertz. Each tag shall be programmed with a unique identification number. A list of unique tag numbers shall be submitted to the Department prior to release; and 

 (IV) Stocked at a rate not exceeding 22 per affected acre. 

 (ix) In addition to documentation relating to the restrictions above, each permit application shall include: 

 (I) Applicant's name, address and daytime telephone number. All property owners of the water body to which grass carp will have unrestricted access must be party to the application and permit; 

 (II) Location of the water body, including township, range, section and quarter section, with map including written directions for access; 

 (III) Map of the water body including, vegetation present in the water body, all inlets and outlets, and screen locations; 

 (IV) Description of emergency procedures for responding to fish escapes from approved sites; 

 (V) Description of how fish will be removed and disposed of at the end of the proposed project. 

 (x) An application becomes the management plan upon approval. Permits and management plans shall be specific to particular sites and particular stocking projects. Permittees shall not deviate from permit conditions and management plans without prior written approval from the Department. No person may remove grass carp from one site (as identified in a management plan) and transport them to any other site without prior written approval from the Department. 

 (xi) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany grass carp imported into and transported within Oregon. If transport is required within the management plan and occurs entirely on the permittee's property, a transport permit is not needed. Any other permit or documentation required for fish import, transport, or stocking shall also be obtained prior to importation and stocking. 

 (xii) Permittees shall, as a condition of the permit, allow employees of the Department or the Oregon State Police to inspect at reasonable times the permitted water body, permit, and associated records. Inspection may take place without warrant or notice, but, unless prompted by emergency or other exigent circumstances, shall be limited to regular and usual business hours, including weekends. Nothing in these rules is intended to authorize or allow the warrantless search or inspection of property other than the water bodies or fish holding facilities on the permittee's property. 

 (xiii) Permits are revocable at any time for violation of any wildlife statute or rule of the Department. Upon revocation, if stocking has already occurred, the permittee shall remove all grass carp within two weeks at her/his own cost. 

 (xiv) Grass carp which escape a permitted water body are subject to seizure or destruction by the Department at the expense of the permit holder. The permit holder shall be held liable for incidental kill of any other species due to or during destruction of escaped grass carp. 

 (xv) The Commission may grant an exception to OAR 635-056-0075(1)(a)(A)(i) or (1)(a)(A)(ii). Exception requests must be submitted in writing in addition to the normal application and must address the requirements in this section. Unless the Commission determines that an alternative provides equivalent protection to fish and wildlife resources and their habitats, exceptions shall have the following additional requirements: 

 (I) If the water body into which grass carp will be stocked is greater than or equal to 10 acres a professional topographic survey by a licensed surveyor must be provided for the entire perimeter of the water body showing all points of water movement in and out of the water body. A topographic survey completed by a state or federal agency within five years from the date of application for the water body may be used. The Department shall determine screening requirements from the survey; 

 (II) Grass carp may remain in a water body within the 100-year floodplain year-round if a professional plan or drawing that is certified by a licensed engineer is provided which indicates that the entire perimeter of the water body is protected from 100-year floods. In order to prevent grass carp escape, screens, dikes, and devices protecting the water body must be able to remain structurally sound within 100-year floods and not be over-topped by a 100-year flood. The Department reserves the right to have a licensed engineer retained by the agency review and approve or deny the plan or drawing submitted by the applicant. 

 (B) Grass carp were legally stocked in Devils Lake (Lincoln County) prior to 1993 and may continue to be stocked subject to terms and conditions determined by the Department. 

 (b) Tilapia (Mozambique tilapia Oreochromis mossambicus, Nile tilapia O. niloticus, Wami tilapia O. urolepsis, Blackchin tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron, and hybrids thereof): The possession, propagation, transportation, sale, purchase, exchange and disposition of these tilapia is controlled according to the following restrictions and standards: 

 (A) A person intending to sell, barter or exchange must apply for and receive an approved propagation license from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Fish Propagation Program prior to commencing production. A person may raise tilapia in-doors (a house, greenhouse, or other enclosed structure capable of excluding predators) for personal consumption without an Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife-Fish Propagation license; 

 (B) Propagation outdoors must occur in ponds or tanks covered with nets or screens adequate to prevent the capture or transport of cultured fish by predators or other animals; 

 (C) Access to production facilities must be through secure locked gates; 

 (D) Only animals certified as disease-free by the vendor may be purchased; 

 (E) Permittees must provide adequate veterinary care to identify and minimize the spread of diseases originating from the animals being held; 

 (F) No live tilapia or their gametes, fertilized eggs, or larvae may be released into waters of this State, as defined in ORS 506.006; and 

 (G) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany live tilapia imported into and transported within Oregon. If transport occurs entirely on the permittee's property, a transport permit is not needed. 

 (c) Tiger muskellunge (Esox lucius X Esox masquinongy): tiger muskellunge are classified as a controlled species for the specific purpose of stocking into Phillips Reservoir (Baker County) for fish management purposes according to the following restrictions and standards: 

 (A) Stocking will occur only in Phillips Reservoir located in Baker County. No other public or private water bodies will be stocked with tiger muskellunge unless approved by the Commission. Tiger muskellunge will be stocked into Phillips Reservoir at a rate not to exceed the adult density required to achieve the objectives of the introduction; control abundance of yellow perch to restore the rainbow trout fishery. 

 (B) Tiger muskellunge may only be obtained and imported from approved suppliers outside of Oregon. Tiger muskellunge may not be propagated or held for further distribution within Oregon. Department pathologists shall approve suppliers. Approval will be based on the ability to provide tiger muskellunge which meet health and disease requirements according to OAR 635-007-0960 through 635-007-0995. 

 (C) Allowable catch and release only based on management objectives. 

 (D) Department will establish a monitoring plan and program prior to release which shall include: 

 (i) Creel monitoring. 

 (ii) Population monitoring. 

 (iii) Plans to eradicate or suppress any illegal introductions of pike or muskellunge introductions to Phillips Reservoir. 

 (iv) Education and outreach. 

 (E) In conjunction with fish monitoring activities all live tiger muskellunge handled of suitable marking size shall be tagged with a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag. Each tag shall be programmed with identification number. A list of the PIT tag identification numbers shall be maintained by the District Fish Biologist and submitted to the Invasive Species Wildlife Integrity Coordinator. 

 (F) Any permit(s) or documentation(s) required for fish import, transport, or stocking shall be obtained prior to and accompany importation and stocking. 

 (G) Department will develop an environmental monitoring plan for Phillips Reservoir which should include basic limnological characterization of the reservoir (nutrient concentrations, light penetration, vertical profiles of physical and chemical characteristics of reservoir water, zooplankton, and phytoplankton composition and densities). 

 (d) Barramundi (Lates calcarifer) the possession, propagation, transportation, sale, purchase, exchange and disposition of Barramundi are controlled according to the following restrictions and standards: 

 (A) A person must apply for and receive an approved propagation license from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Fish Propagation Program prior to commencing production; 

 (B) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany live Barramundi imported into and transported within Oregon. If transport occurs entirely on the permittee’s property, a transport permit is not needed; 

 (C) Fish health certification must be reviewed and found acceptable by ODFW Fish Health personnel or veterinary staffs before fish are purchased or transported; 

 (D) Possession of live Barramundi outside of an approved facility or without a transport permit is prohibited; 

 (E) No live Barramundi or their gametes, fertilized eggs, or larvae may be released into water of the State, as defined in ORS 506.006; 

 (F) Propagation must occur indoors (enclosed structure capable of excluding predators) and only in closed recirculating systems; 

 (G) Access to production facilities must be through secure locked gates; 

 (H) Permittee must provide adequate veterinary care as directed by a veterinarian and adhere to Fish Health Management Policy OAR 635-007-0960 through 635-007-0995 to identify and minimize the spread of disease originating from the animals being held; 

 (I) Effluent water may not be discharged directly into any waters of the state. 

 (2) Controlled Mollusks: 

 (a) Suminoe oysters (Crassostrea ariakensis), Pacific oysters (C.gigas), Kumamoto oysters (C. sikamea), Eastern oysters (C. virginica), and European flat oysters (Ostrea edulis) may be purchased and imported from outside Oregon (or from other estuaries within Oregon) for release into estuaries in Oregon pursuant to the terms of a permit issued by the department. Complete permit applications must be submitted to the department’s Marine Resources Program Headquarters (2040 SE Marine Science Drive, Newport, Oregon 97365) at least 15 days before proposed stocking. Oysters may be commercially harvested and sold pursuant to OAR 635-005. 

 (b) Softshell clam (Mya arenaria), Japanese varnish clam (Nuttalia obscuratai), and Japanese littleneck clam (Venerupis philipinnarum) may be harvested, possessed and sold commercially pursuant to OAR 635-005 or harvested and possessed recreationally pursuant to OAR 635-039. 

 (3) Controlled Crustaceans: 

 (a) Green crabs (Carcinus maenas) may be harvested recreationally pursuant to the currrent annual Oregon Sport Fishing Regulations.  

 (b) Whiteleg shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei): The possession, propagation, transportation, sale, purchase, exchange and disposition of whiteleg shrimp is controlled according to the following restrictions and standards: 

 (A) A person must apply for and receive an approved propagation license from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Fish Propagation Program prior to commencing production; 

 (B) Propagation must occur in ponds covered with nets or screens adequate to prevent the capture or transport of cultured shrimp by predators or other animals; 

 (C) Access to production facilities must be through secure locked gates; 

 (D) Only animals certified as disease-free by the vendor may be purchased; 

 (E) Permittees must provide adequate veterinary care to identify and minimize the spread of diseases originating from the animals being held; 

 (F) No live whiteleg shrimp or their gametes, fertilized eggs, or larvae may be released into waters of this State, as defined in ORS 506.006; and 

 (G) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany live whiteleg shrimp imported into and transported within Oregon. If transport occurs entirely on the permittee's property, a transport permit is not needed. 

 (c) Giant river prawns (Macrobrachium rosenbergii): The possession, propagation, transportation, sale, purchase, exchange and disposition of giant river prawns is controlled according to the following restrictions and standards: 

 (A) A person must apply for and receive an approved propagation license from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Fish Propagation Program prior to commencing production; 

 (B) Propagation must occur in ponds covered with nets or screens adequate to prevent the capture or transport of cultured prawns by predators or other animals; 

 (C) Access to production facilities must be through secure locked gates; 

 (D) Only animals certified as disease-free by the vendor may be purchased; 

 (E) Permittees must provide adequate veterinary care to identify and minimize the spread of diseases originating from the animals being held; 

 (F) No giant river prawns or their gametes, fertilized eggs, or larvae may be released into waters of this State, as defined in ORS 506.006; and 

 (G) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany live giant river prawns imported into and transported within Oregon. If transport occurs entirely on the permittee's property, a transport permit is not needed. 

 (d) Crayfish – Cambaridae and Parastacidae – All species: The importation, possession, propagation, transportation, sale, purchase, exchange and disposition of non-native crayfish is controlled according to the following restrictions and standards. 

 (A) Non-native crayfish may be harvested, possessed and sold commercially pursuant to OAR 635-005-0855 through 635-005-0885 or harvest recreationally pursuant to ORS 496.162 from waters of the State as defined in ORS 503.006; 

 (B) Live non-native crayfish may not be used as bait; 

 (C) Non-native crayfish or their gametes, fertilized eggs, or larvae may not be released into waters of the State, as defined in ORS 503.006; 

 (D) Propagation is not allowed; 

 (E) Non-native crayfish may not be imported except by recognized educational institutions or for immediate consumption (Immediate consumption means within one week from date of delivery): 

 (i) Prior to purchase and importation; must apply for and receive authorization from Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife; 

 (ii) Crayfish must be euthanized after educational section is completed. 

 (iii) Non-native crayfish must remain in an indoor secure facility and can only be removed when transporting for immediate preparation for consumption; 

 (iv) An Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife fish transport permit shall accompany non-native crayfish imported into Oregon. 

 (F) Fish health certification must be reviewed, found acceptable and be on file by ODFW Fish Health personnel or veterinary staffs before crayfish are imported into the State. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146 & 496.162 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 498.052, 498.222, 496.146, 497.308, 497.318 & 498.022 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 73-2025, amend filed 08/19/2025, effective 08/19/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 116-2023, amend filed 12/19/2023, effective 12/19/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 151-2022, minor correction filed 12/08/2022, effective 12/08/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 152-2017, amend filed 12/19/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 90-2017(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 7-14-17 thru 12-31-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 139-2015, f. 10-14-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 131-2014, f. & cert. ef. 9-11-14 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 Reverted to DFW 148-2012, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-12 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 26-2014(Temp), f. 3-21-14, cert. ef. 4-1-14 thru 8-31-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 148-2012, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 131-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-11-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 15-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-15-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 142-2009, f. 11-12-09, cert. ef. 1-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 114-2008, f. & cert. ef. 9-19-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 53-2008(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 5-28-08 thru 9-19-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 64-2003, f. & cert. ef. 7-17-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 116-2001, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 79-2000, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 94-1999, f. & cert ef. 12-23-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 63-1998, f. & cert. ef. 8-10-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
