



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 141 OREGON HEALTH PLAN 
 410-141-3560 
 Resolving Contract Disputes Between Health Care Entities and CCOs 
 
 (1) Pursuant to ORS 414.635, Coordinated Care Organizations (CCOs) and Health Care Entities (HCEs) shall participate in good faith contract negotiations. This rule covers the termination, extension, and renewal of an HCE’s contract with a CCO. 

 (2) In the event of a dispute involving the termination, extension, or renewal of an HCE’s contract with a CCO, the parties may take the following actions in an attempt to reach a good faith resolution: 

 (a) Both parties shall provide a written offer of terms and conditions to the other party. The parties shall explain the basis for their disagreement with the terms and conditions offered by the other party; 

 (b) The CCO’s and HCE’s chief financial officer, chief executive officer, or an individual authorized to make decisions on behalf of the HCE or CCO shall have at least one face-to-face meeting in a good faith effort to resolve the disagreement; 

 (c) The CCO or HCE may request the Authority to provide technical assistance. The Authority’s technical assistance is limited to clarifying the CCO contractual provisions, subcontracting criteria, current reimbursement requirements, access standards, and other legal requirements. 

 (3) If the CCO and HCE cannot reach agreement on contract terms, the parties may engage in mediation. Either the CCO or the HCE may request mediation: 

 (a) After the parties have agreed to enter into mediation, the parties shall attempt to agree on the selection of the mediator and complete paperwork required to secure the mediator’s services. If the parties are unable to agree, each party shall appoint a mediator, and those mediators shall select the final mediator; 

 (b) To be qualified to propose resolutions for disputes under this rule, the mediator shall: 

 (A) Be a knowledgeable and experienced mediator; 

 (B) Be familiar with health care and contracting matters; and 

 (C) Follow the terms and conditions specified in this rule for the mediation process. 

 (c) The parties shall pay for all mediation costs, whether a conclusion is reached or not. In consideration of potentially varied financial resources between the parties, which may pose a barrier to the use of this process, the parties may ask the mediator to allocate costs between the parties based on the ability to pay; 

 (d) Within 10 business days of a selection of a mediator, the CCO and HCE shall submit to each other and to the mediator the following: 

 (A) Contract offer; and 

 (B) Explanation of their position (i.e., advocacy brief). 

 (e) Unless an extension is agreed on by all parties, the mediator shall issue a report to the involved parties that will include mediation findings and recommendations no longer than 15 business days from the conclusion of the mediation. 

 (4) Pursuant to ORS 414.635, if the CCO and HCE cannot reach an agreement on contract terms within ten business days of receipt of the mediator’s report, either party may request non-binding arbitration. The requesting party shall notify the other party in writing of the party’s intent to refer the matter to arbitration: 

 (a) After notification that one party-initiated arbitration, the parties shall agree on the selection of the arbitrator and complete the paperwork required to secure the arbitrator’s services. If the parties are unable to agree, each party shall appoint an arbitrator, and these arbitrators shall select the final arbitrator; 

 (b) To be qualified to propose resolutions for disputes under this rule, the arbitrator shall: 

 (A) Be a knowledgeable and experienced arbitrator; 

 (B) Be familiar with health care provider contracting matters; and 

 (C) Follow the terms and conditions specified in this rule for the arbitration process. 

 (c) The parties shall pay for all arbitration costs. In consideration of potentially varied financial resources between the parties, which may pose a barrier to the use of this process, the parties may ask the arbitrator to allocate costs between the parties based on ability to pay; 

 (d) Within 10 business days of a selection of an arbitrator, the CCO and HCE shall submit to each other and to the arbitrator the following: 

 (A) Final contract offers; and 

 (B) Explanation of their position (i.e., advocacy brief). 

 (e) The arbitrator shall evaluate the final offers and the advocacy briefs from each party and issue a non-binding determination within 15 business days of the receipt of the parties’ submissions. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042, ORS 414.615, 414.625, 414.635 & 414.651 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.610 - 414.685 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 55-2019, adopt filed 12/17/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
