



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSING - PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING, OPERATING, DISCONTINUING AND SUSPENDING LICENSES AND AGENTS 
 635-010-0008 
 Electronic Licensing System 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife shall establish by rule system(s) for licensing, which shall serve as the system(s) of record. All hard (paper) copies of licenses or other privileges are considered courtesy copies. The system(s) shall include, at a minimum: 

 (a) The form and content of applications for licensing for each type of license and related privileges; 

 (b) Schedules and procedures for issuing licenses; 

 (c) The term of a license and related privileges; 

 (d) Applicable fees and payment methods; 

 (e) The species authorized; 

 (f) The geographic area, if applicable; 

 (g) Information related to point or reward systems; 

 (h) Controlled hunt related information and draw functionality; 

 (i) Information related to commercial requirements, as applicable. 

 (2) All licensees and agents are responsible to maintain accurate information with the Department, including a current mailing address, street address and email address. 

 (3) The Department is not required by law to send notification or correspondence by regular mail to a licensee, license applicant or Agent and may send notification or correspondence to the provided email address.  Failure by a licensee, applicant or Agent to receive notification or correspondence provided via email does not relieve the person or company of the responsibility to maintain a current and complete profile with the Department.  The Department’s primary and preferred method of notification and correspondence is to the email address provided in the applicable profile. 

 (4) All agents must use the Department's computerized licensing system for issuing documents, except for issuing Prepaid Daily licenses and permits. 

 (5) All agents must issue documents according to the contract and instructions provided by the Department. 

 (6) For the purposes of this rule, the Department may determine agents having more than one location and owned by a single entity are one agent . 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496 & ORS 497 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496 & ORS 497 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 160-2018, adopt filed 10/18/2018, effective 01/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
