



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-1520 
 Spring Chinook Salmon 
 
 Policy and objectives for wild and hatchery spring Chinook in the North Santiam, South Santiam, and Calapooia subbasins:  (1) Policy: Consistent with achieving the desired status for these three populations of spring Chinook salmon identified in the Upper Willamette River Conservation and Recovery Plan for Chinook Salmon and Steelhead (OAR 635-500-6600), the North Santiam and South Santiam subbasins shall be managed for production of wild and hatchery spring Chinook. The Calapooia subbasin will be managed for eventual re-establisment of a wild population.  (2) Objectives for the North Santiam subbasin:  (a) Achieve the desired status for the North Santiam population of spring Chinook in the North Santiam subbasin identified in the Upper Willamette River Conservation and Recovery Plan for Chinook Salmon and Steelhead (OAR 635-500-6600);  (b) Monitor the status of the spring Chinook run in the North Santiam River subbasin;  (c) Achieve full mitigation for Willamette River spring Chinook populations reduced or extirpated due to dam construction and operations;  (d) The North Santiam River subbasin, except for the Little North Santiam River subbasin, shall be managed for wild and hatchery production of spring Chinook;  (e) The Little North Salmon River subbasin shall be managed for wild production of spring Chinook;  (f) After a reintroduction program using hatchery spring Chinook, the area above the Big Cliff/Detroit dam complex shall be managed for the production of wild spring Chinook;  (g) Increase wild and natural production of spring Chinook throughout North Santiam River subbasin, including re-establishing spring Chinook runs above Detroit Reservoir;  (h) Protect and improve upon the remaining genetic diversity of North Santiam spring Chinook;  (i) Manage hatchery fish genetic diversity to meet harvest management objectives, and to maintain their optimum biological and economic value;  (j) Manage the hatchery mitigation program in a manner to assist recovery of the wild population.  (3) Objectives for the South Santiam subbasin:  (a) Achieve the desired status for the South Santiam population of spring Chinook in the South Santiam subbasin identified in the Upper Willamette River Conservation and Recovery Plan for Chinook Salmon and Steelhead (OAR 635-500-6600);  (b) Monitor the status of the spring Chinook run in the South Santiam River subbasin;  (c) Achieve full mitigation for Willamette River spring Chinook populations reduced or extirpated due to dam construction and operations;  (d) The South Santiam River subbasin shall be managed for natural and hatchery production of spring Chinook;  (e) Increase wild and natural production of spring Chinook throughout the South Santiam River subbasin, including re-establishing spring Chinook runs above Foster Reservoir;  (f) After a reintroduction program using hatchery spring Chinook, the area above Foster dam shall be managed for production of wild spring Chinook;  (g) Protect and improve upon the remaining genetic diversity of South Santiam spring Chinook;  (h) Manage hatchery fish genetic diversity to meet harvest management objectives, and to maintain their optimum biological and economic value;  (i) Manage the hatchery mitigation program in a manner to assist recovery of the wild population.  (4) Objectives for the Calapooia subbasin:  (a) Achieve the desired status for the Calapooia population of spring Chinook in the Calapooia subbasin identified in the Upper Willamette River Conservation and Recovery Plan for Chinook Salmon and Steelhead (OAR 635-500-6600);  (b) Monitor the status of the spring Chinook run in the Calapooia River subbasin;  (c) The Calapooia River subbasin shall be managed for natural production of spring Chinook;  (d) Increase natural production of spring Chinook in the Calapooia River subbasin. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 110-2011, f. & cert. ef. 8-9-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 16-1998, f. & cert. ef. 3-9-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 3-1992, f. 1-28-92, cert. ef. 2-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
