



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 INDOOR CLEAN AIR ACT, NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION AT CHAIN RESTAURANTS AND RETAIL SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND INHALANT DELIVERY SYSTEMS 
 333-015-0058 
 Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act: Smoke Shop Ongoing Requirements for Certification 
 
 (1) A smoke shop must meet the renewal criteria described in OAR 333-015-0059 at all times. The Authority may revoke certification if the smoke shop fails to meet the renewal criteria. 

 (2) Each year, a smoke shop must submit to the Authority documentation of the smoke shop’s gross revenue for the past calendar year demonstrating that at least 75 percent of the smoke shop’s gross revenue for the past calendar year is derived from the sale of tobacco products or smoking instruments. The documentation must be received by the Authority by April 30. The documentation submitted must include: 

 (a) A notarized, sworn statement on an Authority-provided form (available online or by calling the Tobacco Prevention and Education Program) attesting: 

 (A) At least 75 percent of the smoke shop’s gross revenue is derived from the sale of tobacco products or smoking instruments; and 

 (B) To the amount of sales in each product category, including cigarette sales for smoke shops B and smoke shops C that permit cigarette smoking on the premises. 

 (b) An aggregated sales report for the past calendar year identifying the amount of sales in each product category, including cigarette sales for smoke shops B and smoke shops C that permit cigarette smoking on the premises. 

 (3) A smoke shop must maintain documentation on file at the certified location that demonstrates that at least 75 percent of the smoke shop’s gross revenue for the past three calendar years is derived from the sale of tobacco products or smoking instruments. The Authority may inspect a smoke shop’s financial records to determine compliance with the Act and these rules. The smoke shop shall make such documentation available to the Authority upon request or during an inspection. 

 (4) A smoke shop must maintain current contact information with the Authority. If the Authority is unable, despite a good-faith effort, to contact the smoke shop because the smoke shop’s mailing address, phone number, or other contact information are incorrect, then the Authority may suspend the smoke shop’s certification until correct contact information is provided. 

 (5) Smoke shops B and smoke shops C may not allow the smoking of cigarettes unless at least 75 percent of its gross revenue is derived from the sale of cigarettes. 

 (6) A smoke shop that ceases to operate at the certified location fails to meet ongoing certification requirements and certification shall be revoked. A smoke shop must notify the Authority immediately if the smoke shop will cease operating or is not operating. 

 (7) A smoke shop may place a hold on its certification for up to six months by submitting a hold notification on a form provided by the Authority (available online or by calling the Tobacco Prevention and Education Program) to the Authority. 

 (a) The hold is effective only when receipt is confirmed and the hold is approved by the Authority. 

 (b) A smoke shop may only place a hold on its certification when it is remodeling its current certified location or it is transferring location. 

 (c) The Authority shall not act to revoke a certificate under section (6) of this rule during a valid hold on the certification. If the smoke shop fails to begin operating at the end of the hold period, the Authority may revoke the certification under section (6) of this rule. 

 (d) The smoke shop may apply for one 6-month extension that the Authority may grant in its discretion. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.855 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.835 - 433.870 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 23-2019, adopt filed 11/18/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
