



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 STEERING AND SAILING RULES 
 250-011-0200 
 Maneuvering and Warning Signals 
 
 (1) When power-driven vessels are in sight of one another and meeting or crossing at a distance within half a mile of each other, each vessel underway, when maneuvering as authorized or required by these rules:  (a) Shall indicate that maneuver by the following signals on its whistle: one short blast to mean "I intend to leave you on my port side"; two short blasts to mean "I intend to leave you on my starboard side"; and three short blasts to mean "I am operating astern propulsion";  (b) Upon hearing the one or two blast signal the other shall, if in agreement, sound the same whistle signal and take the steps necessary to effect a safe passing. If, however, from any cause, the vessel doubts the safety of the proposed maneuver, it shall sound the danger signal specified in section (4) of this rule and each vessel shall take appropriate precautionary action until a safe passing agreement is made.  (2) A vessel may supplement the whistle signals prescribed in section (1) of this rule by light signals:  (a) These signals shall have the following significance: one flash to mean "I intend to leave you on my port side"; two flashes to mean "I intend to leave you on my starboard side"; three flashes to mean "I am operating astern propulsion";  (b) The duration of each flash shall be about one second; and  (c) The light used for this signal shall, if fitted, be one all-round white or yellow light, visible at a minimum range of two miles, synchronized with the whistle, and shall comply with current U.S. Coast Guard specifications.  (3) When in sight of one another:  (a) A power-driven vessel intending to overtake another power-driven vessel shall indicate its intention by the following signals on its whistle: one short blast to mean "I intend to overtake you on your starboard side"; two short blasts to mean "I intend to overtake you on your port side"; and  (b) The power-driven vessel about to be overtaken shall, if in agreement, sound a similar sound signal. If in doubt it shall sound the danger signal prescribed in section (4) of this rule.  (4) When vessels in sight of one another are approaching each other and from any cause either vessel fails to understand the intentions or actions of the other, or is in doubt whether sufficient action is being taken by the other to avoid collision, the vessel in doubt shall immediately indicate such doubt by giving at least five short and rapid blasts on the whistle. This signal may be supplemented by a light signal of at least five short and rapid flashes.  (5) A vessel nearing a bend or an area of a channel or fairway where other vessels may be obscured by an intervening obstruction shall sound one prolonged blast. This signal shall be answered with a prolonged blast by an approaching vessel that may be within hearing around the bend or behind the intervening obstruction.  (6) If whistles are fitted on a vessel at a distance apart of more than 100 meters, one whistle only shall be used for giving maneuvering and warning signals.  (7) When a power-driven vessel is leaving a dock or berth, it shall sound one prolonged blast  (8) A vessel that reaches agreement with another vessel in a meeting, crossing, or overtaking situation by using the radiotelephone as prescribed by the Federal Bridge-to-Bridge Radio-Telephone Act (85 Stat. 165; 33 U.S.C. 1207), is not obliged to sound the whistle signals prescribed by this rule, but may do so. If agreement is not reached, then whistle signals shall be exchanged in a timely manner and shall prevail. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 830.230 & ORS 830.250 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 250-013-0010, OSMB 5-2015, f. 6-26-15, cert. ef. 7-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MB 15-1983, f. 11-29-83, ef. 12-1-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
