



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 BEHAVIOR SUPPORT SERVICES 
 411-046-0100 
 Purpose 
 
 (1) The rules in OAR chapter 411, division 46 establish standards and procedures for Medicaid Behavior Support Services. Behavior Support Services are provided to support a wide range of individuals who receive Medicaid funded home and community-based care services. The scope of these rules cover:  (a) Department contractors of Behavior Support Services;  (b) Licensed assisted living, residential, and adult foster home providers who provide Behavior Support interventions Services to eligible individuals who receive Behavior Support Services;  (c) In-home agencies, specialized living, or homecare workers who provide Behavior Support interventions to eligible individuals who receive Behavior Support Services.  (2) Behavior Support Services are provided by a behavior consultant who provides eligible individuals and their caregivers with:  (a) A Behavior Support Plan;  (b) Ideas and strategies to support an individualized Activity Plan; and  (c) Coaching for designated caregivers on behavior and activity strategies.  (3) The goals of Behavior Support Services are to:  (a) Ensure all individuals eligible for State Plan K Community First Choice or Independent Choices receive behavior interventions in a person-centered manner that follows the behavior support standards described in these rules.  (b) Ensure individuals who have diagnoses that place them ‘at risk’ of negative behaviors receive proactive environmental strategies and activities which promote:  (A) Placement stability;  (B) Quality of life; and  (C) Autonomy and satisfaction with the individuals' caregivers.  (c) Provide caregivers with the environmental strategies and communication skills to revise and implement a Behavior Support Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 17-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
