



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 23 SCHOOL FINANCE 
 581-023-0230 
 Facility Grant 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule:  (a) "New School Building" means newly constructed school buildings, additions to existing school buildings, newly remodeled or converted structures and newly acquired premanufactured structures if those buildings or structures are to be used for instructing students. Newly remodeled structures may not have been used as classrooms in the prior five school years.  (b) "Construction Cost" means the cost of construction or remodeling excluding cost of land acquisition and cost of equipment not intrinsic to the structure or, for premanufactured structures, the purchase price excluding interest. Costs of site preparation and improvements, project management, and mandated utility and access upgrades may be included. Construction cost does not include structures such as athletic fields, stadiums, pools or any other structure whose primary purpose is not the instruction of students.  (2) A school district is eligible to receive a facility grant for a new school building in the year the new school building is first used for instruction for more than half of the district's regular school year or the following year.  (3) Facility grant shall equal a percentage of new school building construction cost as determined by statute. If the total amount to be distributed as facility grants exceed the limitation set in statute, the Department of Education shall prorate the amount of funds available for facility grants among those school districts that qualified for a facility grant. The proration percentage shall be adjusted to be the same for each year of the biennium.  (4) A school district may not use the portion of the State School Fund grant that is attributable to the facility grant for capital construction costs.  (5) Facility grant applications must be received at the Department of Education no later than February 15 of the school year following the school year in which the new school building is first eligible for the facility grant. The application shall include a summary of the construction cost as well as a copy of the parts of the contract(s) documenting the construction cost or purchase price.  (6) The Department of Education will distribute the facility grant with the March 15 State School Fund payment. Any necessary adjustments will be made on May 15, with final adjustment to be made in the second year.  (7) The State Superintendent of Public Instruction shall resolve any issues arising from the administration of the facility grant not specifically addressed by this rule and the Superintendent's determination shall be final. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 327.125 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 327.013 & 327.008 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 10-2003, f. & cert. ef. 6-13-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 6-2000, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
