



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 METHODS OF ESTABLISHING GROSS WEIGHTS OF TRUCKS 
 731-020-0010 
 Weighing of Vehicles 
 
 (1) For the purpose of determining any gross weight, actual scale weights shall govern. In the absence of information as to scale weights or of convenient facilities for ascertaining scale weights, the weights furnished by dealers, manufactures or their agents, as to the weights of vehicles and parts of vehicles, and bills of lading or cargo manifests as to weights of loads, may be accepted as the weights thereof, but such weights shall be subject at all times to verification by actual weights subsequently ascertained.  (2) For any of the purposes of the Oregon Vehicle Code, any gross weight may be measured and determined as follows:  (a) The gross weight of any wheel may be ascertained by placing a portable wheel weigher underneath the wheel and raising it off the surface of the ground, or by placing any wheel on a platform scale in a position so that the other wheels of the vehicle do not bear upon the platform of the scale;  (b) The gross axle weight of any axle may be ascertained by placing a portable wheel weigher underneath the outer wheels at both ends of the axle and raising all the wheels of the axle off the surface of the ground so as to weigh the entire axle at one time, or otherwise in the usual manner of the use of weighing devices, or may be ascertained by placing all the wheels of any axle on a platform scale in a position so that the other wheels of the vehicle do not bear upon the platform of the scale;  (c) The gross weight of any tandem axles and the gross weight of any group of axles shall be the sum of the gross axle weights of all the axles comprising the tandem axles or the group of axles, or may be ascertained by placing all the wheels of the tandem axles or the group of axles on a platform scale in a position so that the other wheels of the vehicle or combination of vehicles do not bear upon the platform of the scale. If it is not practical to place only the wheels of the tandem axles or groups of axles in a position so that other wheels of the vehicle or combination of vehicles do not bear upon the platform of the scale, other wheels of the vehicle or combination of vehicles may be placed on the platform of the scale and the gross weight of the tandem axles or the gross weight of the group of axles shall be determined by subtracting from the gross weight of all the wheels upon the platform of the scale the gross weight of the wheels not comprising the tandem axles or the groups of axles;  (d) The gross weight of any vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be the sum of the gross axle weights of all the axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles, or may be ascertained by placing all the wheels of a vehicle or combination of vehicles on a platform scale.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 801.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 801.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 3-1992, f. & cert. ef. 11-25-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 2-1992(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 9-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
