



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of the State Fire Marshal 
 Chapter 837 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 85 COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW SURVEY AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS 
 837-085-0380 
 Incident Reporting System
 
 
 (1) Emergency service personnel responding to an incident of threatened or actual injury to a human, wildlife, domestic animal, or in which damage to the environment, or any property loss occurs resulting from a chemical substance or waste incident must make a written report of the incident to the State Fire Marshal: 

 (a) This report must be on a form approved by the State Fire Marshal; 

 (b) Only one written incident report for each incident is required. Responsibility for completing the written report shall be in the following order: 

 (A) Where fire department units have responded to the incident, the fire department having jurisdiction shall be responsible for completing and forwarding the written report; 

 (B) Where no fire department unit has responded to the incident and where one or more law enforcement agency is at the scene, the first law enforcement agency to have arrived at the scene shall be responsible for completing and forwarding the written report; 

 (C) Where no fire department unit or law enforcement agency has responded to the incident and where health professionals, including emergency medical technicians or ambulance personnel, are at the scene, the first health professional to arrive at the scene shall be responsible for completing and forwarding the written report; and 

 (D) Where no fire department unit, law enforcement agency or health professional has responded to the incident, any other emergency service agency, including agencies of this state, who are at the scene shall confer and determine who shall be responsible for completing and forwarding the written report. 

 (2) The written report required under section (1) of this rule should be submitted to the State Fire Marshal no later than ten working days after the incident occurs. 

 (3) The following incidents are exempted from the reporting requirements of section (1) of this rule: 

 (a) Motor fuels which are spilled in quantities of less than 42 gallons from a vehicle, unless it enters a waterway; or is determined to endanger the public safety or immediate or surrounding environment, including groundwater; or 

 (b) Sewage overflows; or 

 (c) Structure fires or other emergencies where hazardous substances are involved as exposures, if the quantities exposed are less than 42 gallons. This means that a Hazardous Materials Incident Report would not be required for a structure fire or other emergency if consumer quantities of hazardous substances did not directly relate to the cause of the emergency or to injuries or death. If these consumer quantities caused the incident or contributed to an injury or death, a written Oregon State Fire Marshal Hazardous Materials Incident Report would be required. As with any fire, a State Fire Marshal Fire Report is required. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.367 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 435.357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 1-2019, amend filed 01/02/2019, effective 01/02/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 1-2010, f. 1-27-10, cert. ef. 2-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FM 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 1-14-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
