



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 69 INVESTOR OWNED UTILITY INSTITUTIONAL BUILDINGS PROGRAM 
 330-069-0015 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “IOU” means the investor-owned utilities listed in OAR 330-069-0075.  (2) “Administrative Costs” are costs allowed under OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State and Local Governments,” as amended.  (3) “Building” means any structure in which the efficient use of electricity can be improved through an ECM. Such building(s) must have been completed by October 28, 1982. The building(s) must be owned and operated by an institution.  (4) “Building Owner” means an institution which is the fee owner, mortgagor, or contract vendor of a building; or an institution which is a lessee or other occupant of a building with a lease which ends not before September 30, 1992, and which is authorized to install ECMs.  (5) “Care Institution” means:  (a) An institution for long-term care or rehabilitation, or a health center, as described in Section 1633 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300s-3; 88 Stat. 2270); or  (b) A residential child care center, other than a foster home, which primary use is for fulltime care. Such center must provide care for at least ten minor persons who have an average stay of at least 30 days. Such persons must be in the care of the center because of a finding of abandonment or neglect, or because they need treatment or supervision.  (6) “Effective Date” means February 22, 1985.  (7) “Energy Audit (EA)” means the survey of a building by an energy auditor. Such survey is in accord with standards set by ODOE. The survey describes how a building uses energy. The survey will also find and list low-cost and no-cost operation and maintenance actions (O&M).  (8) “Energy Auditor” means a person certified by ODOE to do EAs under this program.  (9) “Energy Conservation Measure (ECM)” means to install material or equipment or take action to weatherize; or, actions to improve energy efficiency in electric water heating, space heating or cooling, ventilation, lighting, food preparation, motors, automatic energy control, and energy recovery.  (10) “Facility Other Than Buildings” includes but is not limited to:  (a) Sewage treatment plants;  (b) Potable water treatment and pumping systems;  (c) Fish hatcheries;  (d) Parking structures;  (e) Stadia or arenas; and  (f) Outdoor swimming pools which were completed by October 28, 1982 and which are owned and operated by an institution.  (11) “Hospital” means an institution which provides hospital service under the laws of the State of Oregon. In these rules, the term excludes a hospital which main care is domiciliary.  (12) “Institution” means a nonprofit or a public institution in the service area of a utility listed in OAR 330-069-0075.  (13) “Licensed Professional (LP)” means a person who has an active engineer’s license granted by the State of Oregon; or is an engineer-architect team. The main members of such teams have active professional licenses granted by the State of Oregon.  (14) “Licensed Professional Engineer (PE)” means a person who has an active engineer’s license granted by the State of Oregon.  (15) “Nonprofit Institution” means a hospital, care institution, or a school which owner and operator is exempt from income tax under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code.  (16) “Occupied Building” (for buildings within facilities) means an enclosed structure that persons occupy for more than seven hours per week. Such building has a working heating and/or cooling system used for human comfort and/or for process environmental control.  (17) “Operation and Maintenance (O&M)” means to operate, maintain, repair and adjust equipment or components of buildings to improve energy efficiency.  (18) “OPUC” means the Oregon Public Utility Commissioner.  (19) “Owner” means the persons authorized to apply and accept funds for the building or facility and be in accord with section (4) of this rule.  (20) “Program” means the Institutional Buildings Program (IBP) funded by the investor owned utilities through an agreement with ODOE. The program is in effect from February 22, 1985, through October 30, 1987. All program projects must be complete and final payment authorized by October 30, 1987.  (21) “Project” means one or more ECMs, defined by a TAS, for which a building owner seeks ODOE funding approval.  (22) “Public Institution” means an institution owned and operated by:  (a) The federal government;  (b) The State of Oregon;  (c) A political subdivision of the state and which can levy taxes;  (d) A recognized governing body of an Indian tribe in the state; or  (e) A body that can perform general government functions under state or local authority.  (23) “School” means an institution which legally provides elementary, secondary, post-secondary, or vocational education on a day or residential basis.  (24) “Technical Assistance Analyst (TAA)” means a person(s) who:  (a) Has experience in energy conservation; and  (b) Is a LP as defined in section (13) of this rule.  (25) “Technical assistance study (TAS)” means a study done by a TAA which meets ODOE standards. A TAS analyzes the potential energy savings in a building or facility. It recommends ECMs that will achieve such savings. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 5-1985, f. & ef. 6-17-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
