



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Construction Contractors Board 
 Chapter 812 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 CONTRACTOR DUTIES 
 812-012-0120 
 Maintenance Schedules 
 
 (1) A contractor that constructs a new residential structure or zero-lot-line dwelling shall provide a maintenance schedule to the first purchaser or owner of the structure or dwelling. The maintenance schedule will recommend periodic steps that the purchaser or owner should take to prevent moisture intrusion or water damage to the structure or dwelling. The minimum information contained in the maintenance schedule will consist of the information listed below in section (4).  (2) “Moisture intrusion” and “water damage” are defined as follows:  (a) “Moisture intrusion” means water, whether liquid, frozen, condensed or vaporized, that penetrates into a structure or behind the outside cladding of a structure.  (b) “Water damage” means damage or harm caused by moisture intrusion that reduces the value or usefulness of a structure.  (3) Moisture intrusion and water damage may occur, for example, from the following:  (a) Missing or loose roofing materials or flashing;  (b) Window sills or door frames without adequate caulking or weather-stripping;  (c) Lack of caulking in siding, mortar in masonry or grout in exterior ceramic tile installations;  (d) Degraded paint on exterior siding or surfaces;  (e) Overflowing or clogged gutters;  (f) Gutter drains or downspouts that are not a sufficient distance from the structure;  (g) Improper drainage slope next to foundation;  (h) Plant materials too close to the structure or foundation;  (i) Sprinklers that overspray onto the structure or foundation;  (j) Non-working interior ventilation systems.  (4) The recommended maintenance schedule for new residential structures and dwellings, to prevent moisture intrusion and water damage, is as follows:  (a) At least once a year:  (A) Check roof for damaged, loose or missing shingles. Check flashing around roof stacks, vents, skylights, and chimneys and in roof valleys for missing or loose flashing. Repair or replace if necessary.  (B) Check for water stains in the roof of the attic and in the exterior overhangs or soffits. If water stains are present, locate and repair the cause of moisture intrusion.  (C) Check and repair missing mortar in exterior masonry.  (D) Check painted surfaces for cracking, peeling or fading. Repaint if necessary.  (E) Inspect gutters and downspouts for leaks. Repair if necessary. Check alignment of gutters, downspouts and splash blocks to ensure that water is properly diverted away from the structure and foundation. Repair if necessary.  (F) Inspect gutters for debris blockage. Remove debris (for example, tree needles and leaves) from downspouts and gutters.  (G) Check soil around foundation to make sure that it slopes in such a way that water can flow away from the foundation. Fill soil in any areas that have settled around the foundation.  (H) Trim back tree branches, shrubs and other plants to make sure they are not in contact with the structure.  (I) Check landscaping sprinklers to make sure that they are not set so that they will soak siding or form puddles near the foundation. Adjust if necessary.  (b) At least twice a year, check and repair missing, cracked or peeling caulking or weather-stripping around window sills, door frames and in siding gaps.  (c) At least once every two months, check to make sure that interior mechanical ventilation systems (such as bathroom, kitchen and utility room vent fans) are in good working order. Repair if necessary.  (5) Signs of water damage may include, but are not limited to, dampness, staining, mildewing (blackened surfaces with musty smell) and softness in wood members (possible sign of dry rot).  (6) If water damage is discovered, investigation should be made into the source of the water damage. Steps should be taken to repair or replace building components or materials that allowed moisture intrusion leading to the water damage. Additional steps may need to be taken depending on the extent of the water damage.  (7) The maintenance schedule in section (4) contains the minimum information that a contractor that constructs a new residential structure or zero-lot-line dwelling must provide. A contractor may offer a maintenance schedule with additional information, recognizing the uniqueness of each structure and its material components. A contractor may use any form or layout for its maintenance schedule, provided that it contains the information in section (4).  (8) The contractor that constructs a new residential structure or zero-lot-line dwelling shall provide a copy of its maintenance schedule to the first purchaser or owner no later than 60 days after substantial completion of the structure or dwelling, or occupancy of the structure or dwelling, whichever occurs later.  (9) For purposes of this rule, a contractor that constructions a new residential structure or zero-lot-line dwelling refers to the prime or general contractor that contracts with the homeowner or sells to the first purchaser. Subcontractors that do not have a contractual relationship with the homeowner or first purchaser are not required to deliver a maintenance schedule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.310 & 701.235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 701.335 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 812-001-0240, CCB 16-2008, f. 9-26-08, cert. ef. 10-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CCB 10-2008, f. 6-30-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
