



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 SELF-SUFFICIENCY TRUST FUND AND THE DISABILITY TRUST FUND 
 411-100-0010 
 Services Provided 
 
 (1) State Trust Fund and Disability Trust Fund monies can be used to purchase additional services currently available in the state service delivery system which do not supplant services already provided by public assistance programs or to purchase new services deemed appropriate for the beneficiary or recipient. Such monies cannot provide for the same needs as those provided by public assistance programs, nor shall the supplementary services reduce, impair or diminish the benefits to which the beneficiary or recipient is otherwise entitled by law. Therefore, the following shall apply:  (a) State Trust Fund and Disability Trust Fund monies shall not be used to meet food, shelter, clothing, personal needs, room/board and medical needs of the beneficiary or recipient, unless it is in addition to such needs, or not otherwise provided by other entitlement programs;  (b) State Trust Fund and Disability Trust Fund monies shall not be made available as a direct payment to the beneficiary or recipient;  (c) State Trust Fund and Disability Trust Fund monies for supplementary services shall cease if the beneficiary or recipient moves out of the state of Oregon, effective the date of the move. The funds in the beneficiary’s State Trust Fund account shall be transferred back to the private, non-profit trust;  (d) All services purchased with State Trust Fund and Disability Trust Fund monies will be purchased by way of vouchers, approved by the Division, for supplementary services specified in the Agreement, or in the case of Disability Trust Fund monies, for supplementary services authorized by the designated local Division office;  (e) Individual Life Care Plans will define those supplemental services for which payment will be made for the beneficiary.  (2) Supplemental services may include, but are not limited to:  (a) Social Services;  (b) Rehabilitation and Remedial Services;  (c) Educational Services;  (d) Recreational Services and Programs;  (e) Respite Services;  (f) Habilitation Services;  (g) Training Program to assist in managing activities of daily living;  (h) Advocacy Services; and  (i) Other services which are deemed appropriate.  (3) Specific examples of supplemental services may include any of the following: additional food, clothing and health services not otherwise provided; birthday and holiday presents; radios; record players; computers; television sets; camping; vacations; athletic contests; health club membership; movies; trips; and other medical, health, recreational or safety needs.  (4) Additional health care needs not otherwise provided will vary depending upon what services are covered under the various public assistance programs. The Division will generate a list which specifies examples of allowable supplemental health care services. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.730 and 410.732 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.730 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 4-1991, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
