



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Raspberry and Blackberry Commission - Chapter 611 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 COMMISSION MAKE-UP, TERMS, QUALIFICATIONS, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE 
 611-030-0040 
 Chair and Other Officers 
 
 (1) Annually, at the last regular meeting of the Commission at the end of the fiscal year, the Oregon Raspberry and Blackberry Commission will elect from its members a Chair, Vice Chair, and a Secretary-Treasurer who will serve until their successors are elected and qualified. The Chair, Vice Chair or Secretary-Treasurer may resign as such or may be removed from that position by vote of five or majority of the Commissioners. If the Chair, Vice Chair or Secretary-Treasurer ceases to be a Commissioner, the office will be vacant and a successor will be elected at the next regular meeting of the Commission.  (2) The Chair will preside over all meetings, call special meetings, and generally supervise the business affairs of the commodity commission committees.  (3) The Vice Chair will act in lieu of the Chair when the Chair is unable to perform the duties of the office of Chair or while the office is vacant. Under normal circumstances, the Vice Chair assists in the completion of the duties of the Chair.  (4) The Secretary-Treasurer of the commission acts as custodian of all the monies, property, securities, fidelity bonds, and the books, records, and accounts maintained by the commodity commission. This officer is also responsible for promptly depositing all monies and securities of the commission into the appropriate banking institutions. These duties may be delegated to the administrator. In the absence of the Chair or Vice Chair, the Secretary-Treasurer may perform his or her duties. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 576 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 576.285 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ORBC 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 7-16-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ORBC 1-2004, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
