



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 49 MODEL RULES GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 137-049-0160 
 Intermediate Procurements; Competitive Quotes and Amendments 
 
 (1) General. Public Improvement Contracts estimated by the Contracting Agency not to exceed $100,000 may be Awarded in accordance with intermediate level procurement procedures for competitive quotes established by this rule.  (2) Selection Criteria. The selection criteria may be limited to price or some combination of price, experience, specific expertise, availability, project understanding, contractor capacity, responsibility and similar factors.  (3) Request for Quotes. Contracting Agencies shall utilize Written requests for quotes whenever reasonably practicable. Written Request for Quotes shall include the selection criteria to be utilized in selecting a Contractor and, if the criteria are not of equal value, their relative value or ranking. When requesting quotations orally, prior to requesting the price quote the Contracting Agency shall state any additional selection criteria and, if the criteria are not of equal value, their relative value. For Public Works Contracts, oral quotations may be utilized only in the event that Written copies of the prevailing wage rates are not required by the Bureau of Labor and Industries.  (4) Number of Quotes; Record Required. Contracting Agencies shall seek at least three competitive quotes, and keep a Written record of the sources and amounts of the quotes received. If three quotes are not reasonably available the Contracting Agency shall make a Written record of the effort made to obtain those quotes.  (5) Award. If Awarded, the Contracting Agency shall Award the Contract to the prospective contractor whose quote will best serve the interests of the Contracting Agency, taking into account the announced selection criteria. If Award is not made to the Offeror offering the lowest price, the Contracting Agency shall make a Written record of the basis for Award.  (6) Price Increases. Intermediate level Public Improvement Contracts obtained by competitive quotes may be increased above the original amount of Award by Contracting Agency issuance of a Change to the Work or Amendment, pursuant to OAR 137-049-0910, within the following limitations:  (a) Up to an aggregate Contract Price increase of 25% over the original Contract amount when a Contracting Agency's contracting officer determines that a price increase is warranted for additional reasonably related Work, and;  (b) Up to an aggregate Contract Price increase of 50% over the original Contract amount, when a Contracting Agency's contracting officer determines that a price increase is warranted for additional reasonably related Work and a Contracting Agency official, board or governing body with administrative or review authority over the contracting officer approves the increase.  (7) Amendments. Amendments of intermediate level Public Improvement Contracts that exceed the thresholds stated in section (1) are specifically authorized by the Code, when made in accordance with this rule. Accordingly, such amendments are not considered new procurements and do not require an exemption from competitive bidding. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Temporary provisions relating to competitive quotes were not codified but compiled as Legislative Co & unsel notes following ORS 279C.410. 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 19-2007, f. 12-28-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 20-2005, f. 12-27-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
