



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 HEALTH PROMOTION AND CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION 
 333-010-0130 
 Standards of Care for Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening and Diagnostic Services 
 
 Participating ScreenWise BCC providers must agree to provide screening and diagnostic services according to the following standards:  (1) Informed Consent. The client’s decision to participate in and consent to receive breast and cervical cancer screening and diagnostic services must be voluntary and without bias or coercion.  (a) The informed consent process, provided verbally and supplemented with written materials, must be presented in a language the client understands.  (b) Consent must be obtained from the individual client receiving screening and diagnostic services.  (2) Confidentiality. Services must be provided in a manner that respects the privacy and dignity of the individual.  (a) Providers must inform clients that services and medical records will be kept confidential.  (b) Records cannot be released without written client consent, except as required by law, or otherwise permitted by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).  (3) Linguistic and Cultural Competence. All services, support and other assistance must be provided in a manner that is responsive to the beliefs, interpersonal styles, attitudes, language, and behaviors of the individuals who are receiving services, and in a manner that has the greatest likelihood of ensuring their maximum participation in the program.  (a) All persons providing interpretation services must adhere to confidentiality guidelines.  (b) The provider must make interpretation services available to all clients needing or requesting such assistance at no cost to the client. The provider must notify clients in need of interpretation services of the availability of such services in accordance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  (c) The provider must assure the competency of language assistance provided to limited English proficiency clients by interpreters and bilingual staff. Family and friends should not be used to provide interpretation services, unless requested by the client.  (d) Provider shall make available easily understood client related materials and post signage in the languages of groups commonly encountered in the service area.  (e) All print, electronic, and audiovisual materials must be appropriate according to the client’s language and literacy. Providers must accommodate a client’s request for alternate formats.  (4) Access to Care. Services covered by ScreenWise BCC must be provided without cost to eligible clients. Providers must inform clients of the scope of services available through the program.  (a) Although not covered by ScreenWise BCC, treatment and supplies for pre-cancerous, cancerous conditions, and sexually transmitted infections must be available at the site, or by referral.  (b) Clients in need of additional medical services beyond the scope of the ScreenWise BCC provider network must be provided with information about available local resources.  (c) Clients with a qualifying breast or cervical cancer diagnosis, including specific pre-cancerous conditions, shall be screened to determine presumptive eligibility for the BCCTP and enrolling providers shall facilitate the application process.  (d) All services must be offered to eligible clients without regard to marital status, race, parity, disability, or sexual orientation.  (5) Clinical and Preventive Services. The scope of breast and cervical cancer screening and diagnostic services offered to clients must include:  (a) A health history, including health risk facts and personal and family medical history as it pertains to breast and cervical cancer screening.  (b) An initial physical examination that includes a breast and pelvic exam with a Pap smear.  (c) Follow-up recommendations.  (d) Care coordination to ensure that appropriate follow-up screening, diagnostic testing and care is provided, including:  (A) An explanation of the results of the physical examination and the laboratory tests; and  (B) The opportunity for questions concerning procedures, methods and results. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 414.540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 413.042, 414.534 & 414.536 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2016, f. & cert. ef. 4-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 20-2015(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-12-15 thru 4-8-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 1-2012, f. & cert. ef. 1-17-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 9-2008, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
