



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Examiners for Engineering and Land Surveying 
 Chapter 820 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSING 
 820-010-0730 
 Use of Title if Registered in Other Jurisdiction
 
 
 (1) A person who is not registered in Oregon as a professional engineer, but holds a substantially equivalent unexpired certificate of registration in another state, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or a foreign country, may not use the titles,  “professional engineer,” “registered professional engineer,” or any of their abbreviations or derivations unless the jurisdiction(s) in which they are registered is written/printed after the title so as not to mislead the public regarding their credentials. 

 (2) Other than as described in subsection (1) of this rule, no person may hold themselves out as a professional engineer in Oregon by use of the title “professional engineer,” “registered professional engineer,” or any of their abbreviations or derivatives; 

 (3) Unless registered as a professional engineer in Oregon, no person may offer to practice professional engineering or engage in the practice of professional engineering, irrespective of how the person is titled or designated. 

 (4) A person who is not registered in Oregon as a professional land surveyor, but holds a substantially equivalent unexpired certificate of registration in another state, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or a foreign country, may not use the titles,  “professional land surveyor,” “registered professional land surveyor,” or any of their abbreviations or derivations unless the jurisdiction(s) in which they are registered is written/printed after the title so as not to mislead the public regarding their credentials. 

 (5) Other than as described in subsection (4) of this rule, no persons may hold themselves out as a professional land surveyor in Oregon by use of the title “professional land surveyor,” “registered professional land surveyor,” or any of their abbreviations or derivatives, in any commercial context or in relation to the offer or provision of professional land surveyor services. 

 (6) Unless registered as a professional land surveyor in Oregon, no person may offer to practice land surveying or engage in the practice of land surveying, irrespective of how the person is titled or designated. 

 (7) A person who is not registered in Oregon as a professional photogrammetrist, but holds a substantially equivalent unexpired certificate of registration in another state, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or a foreign country, may not use the titles, “professional photogrammetrist,” "registered photogrammetrist" or any of their abbreviations or derivations unless the jurisdiction(s) in which they are registered is written/printed after the title so as not to mislead the public regarding their credentials. 

 (8) Other than as described in subsection (7) of this rule, no persons may hold themselves out as a professional photogrammetrist in Oregon by use of the titles “professional photogrammetrist,” "registered photogrammetrist" or any abbreviations or derivatives, in any commercial context or in relation to the offer or provision of professional photogrammetric mapping services. 

 (9) Unless registered as a professional photogrammetrist in Oregon, no person may offer to practice photogrammetric mapping or engage in the practice of photogrammetric mapping, irrespective of how the person is titled or designated. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 672.007, 672.020 & 672.255 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 672.002 - 672.325 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 1-2021, amend filed 01/12/2021, effective 01/12/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 1-2015, f. & cert. ef. 2-3-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 5-10-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
