



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commission for the Blind 
 Chapter 585 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 585-001-0011 
 Fees for Public Records and Other Services 
 
 (1) Commission shall establish a fee schedule and assess fees for fulfilling requests for public records  that are reasonably calculated to reimburse Commission for its actual cost of making public records available, including costs for per page copy and facsimile fees, postage when applicable, staff time to locate, review, remove information exempt from disclosure, and/or transfer the material to a requested electronic or other necessary format appropriate for releasing the public record(s). 

 (2) If Commission can fulfill a request for records using less than 30 minutes of staff time, Commission will not charge the requester for that time. 

 (3) No additional fee will be charged for providing records in an alternative format when required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. 

 (4) The Executive Director or designee may reduce or waive fees or other charges under this rule if the Executive Director or designee determines that: 

 (a) Time spent making the records available for inspection or preparation for photocopying was negligible; 

 (b) Supplying the requested records is within the normal scope of a Commission activity; 

 (c) Payment would cause extreme or undue financial hardship upon the requestor; or 

 (d) Making the record available primarily benefits the general public. 

 (5) The requestor will be notified of the initial cost estimate for fulfilling the request. Commission shall seek approval from the requestor, prior to initiating work to fulfill a request. Commission will work with requester to refine the scope of their request, if necessary, to reduce costs. 

 (6) All fees and charges must be paid in advance of releasing the requested public records for inspection or before photocopies are provided. Payments must be made by check or money order and made payable to the “Oregon Commission for the Blind.” 

 (7) To reduce costs and paper waste, photocopies will be produced on recycled paper in double-sided print format whenever feasible. 

 (8) Due to the threat of computer virus, Commission will not permit requestors to provide their own media storage devices for electronic reproduction of computer records. Requests for other electronic reproduction will be evaluated at the time of the request and a determination made as to the feasibility and accessibility of the requested electronic format. There is no charge to send documents by email or other electronic transfer method. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 346.150 & ORS 192.324 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.324 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFTB 2-2021, adopt filed 02/23/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
