



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE OREGON SAFE EMPLOYMENT ACT 
 437-001-0850 
 Administration of Rules 
 
 (1) All payments under the Worksite Redesign Program are subject to the availability of funds. The director has final authority to approve/disapprove requests for assistance and to determine how the funds will be disbursed.  (2) In addition to approving worksite redesign grants, the director may use the Fund for educational activities to provide information about and encourage application for grants for prevention or reduction of on-the-job injuries and illnesses.  (3) Pursuant to ORS 656.622, decisions by the director regarding Worksite Redesign Program assistance may not be reviewed by any court or other administrative body.  (4) The following conditions apply to all ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, processes, methods, inventions, discoveries, developments, innovations and improvements conceived or made by a grantee, a grantee’s employees or a grantee’s contractors resulting from work under a worksite redesign grant:  (a) Public use of a new product design. All inventions and copyrightable works arising from work conducted under a worksite redesign grant will be dedicated to the public domain without any limitation on their use by the public. Neither DCBS, nor the grant recipient nor the grantee’s contractors will hold trade secrets as a result of work conducted under a worksite redesign grant.  (b) The grantee and its contractors will abandon any and all ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, processes, methods, inventions, discoveries, developments, innovations and improvements (“inventions”) conceived or made by the grantee, the grantee’s employees, or the grantee’s contractors, whether alone or with others, resulting from work under the grant. The grantee will disclose all such inventions to the department promptly and will provide all assistance reasonably requested by the department to document the abandonment of such Inventions and/or dedication of such Inventions to the public domain. There will be no restriction on the manufacture, use or sale of such inventions by the public.  (c) Published works produced by grantee must bear an acknowledgment of support through the use of the following comparable statement: “This material has been made possible by a grant from the Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services." 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.622(9) & 656.622 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.622 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 7-1999, f. & cert. ef. 7-15-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
