



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 58 PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES 
 734-058-0050 
 Liability and Control 
 
 (1) An Applicant shall be responsible and liable for all damage or injury to any person or property resulting from the Pedestrian Activity for which the Permit is issued. The Applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the State of Oregon, the Oregon Transportation Commission, the Department, its officers, agents and employees against any and all damages, claims, demands, actions, causes of action, costs and expenses of any nature which they or any of them may sustain by reasons of the acts, conduct, or operation of Applicant, its agents, employees, or other individuals conducting Pedestrian Activities under the Permit.  (2) During any permitted activity, the activity area shall be protected in accordance with the MUTCD, and any safety and operations standards as amended or supplemented by the Oregon Transportation Commission in force at the time the Permit is issued. Traffic control devices in place continuously for three days or less at the same location must comply with the “Oregon Temporary Traffic Control Handbook” in force at the time the Permit is issued.  (3) While performing activities under the Permit, the Applicant shall wear, on the outside of all other garments, a safety vest meeting ANSI/ISEA High Visibility Safety Apparel Guidelines, or equivalent revisions, and labeled as ANSI 107-1999 or later for standard performance for class two risk exposure.  (4) The Applicant shall be bound by all applicable laws and rules of any government entity.  (5) The Applicant shall be responsible and liable for:  (a) Investigating presence or absence of any legally protected or regulated environmental, historical, or archeological resource(s) in the activity area;  (b) Determining and complying with any and all restrictions or requirements related to the proposed activities, including but not limited to those relating to hazardous material(s), water quality constraints, wetlands, archeological or historic resource(s), state and federal threatened or endangered species, etc.;  (c) Complying with all federal, state, and local laws, and obtaining all required and necessary permits and approvals. If the Applicant impacts a legally protected/regulated resource, the Applicant shall be responsible for all costs associated with such impact, including, but not limited to all costs of mitigation and rehabilitation, and shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the State of Oregon, the Oregon Transportation Commission, the Department and its officers, agents, and employees against all damages, claims, demands, or actions of any nature arising out of the activities of the Applicant, its officers, contractors, subcontractors, agents, employees, or other individuals conducting Pedestrian Activities under the Permit.  (6) The Department or its employees shall not be responsible or liable for injury, damage, or loss sustained by the Applicant, its participants or the activity covered by the Permit as a result of Department maintenance and construction operations or resulting from motorist or road user operations, or Department contractor or other permitted operations, except injury or damage caused by the negligence of the Department or its employees.  (7) If highway facilities are damaged by the Applicant, the Applicant shall replace or restore the highway facilities to a condition satisfactory to the DM, whether discovered at the time of the activity or at a later date. The DM may require the Applicant to replace or restore the highway facilities to a condition satisfactory to the DM, or the DM may replace or restore the highway facilities by contractor or state forces and assess the costs incurred to the Applicant.  (8) No Permit will allow, or be interpreted as allowing vehicles to be parked, stopped or left standing, upon the state highway Right of Way in a manner that creates a hazard to motor vehicle traffic or interferes with the regular maintenance or operation of the roadway. Applicant shall move any of its vehicles if directed to do so by the Department or law enforcement personnel.  (9) Unless specifically authorized by a Permit, Applicant shall not place items including flags, banners, or pennants, other than official traffic control devices allowed in division 58 rules, on or over the highway. Unauthorized items shall be removed at the direction of the Department or law enforcement personnel.  (10) Any review, supervision or control exercised by Department personnel shall in no way relieve the Applicant of any duty or responsibility to the general public nor shall such review, supervision or control relieve the Applicant from any liability for loss, damage or injury to persons or property as provided in the Permit or OAR chapter 734, division 58. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 814.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 814.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 8-2008, f. & cert. ef. 8-26-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
