



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 FOREST PARK AND RECREATION AREAS 
 629-025-0011 
 Permits — General Regulations 
 
 (1) Permitting Authority: The Forester may require permits for the use of State Forest Lands including, but not limited to, for the following uses:  (a) Sponsored Events;  (b) Camping in Campgrounds or in Camping Areas on State Forest Land;  (c) Parking at designated sites on State Forest Land;  (d) Use of Day Use Areas; and  (e) Commercial Use, including Large Commercial Events.  (2) Permit Duration; Suspension: Permits for use of State Forest Land may be issued for a day, season, or such other time period the Forester deems appropriate for the use involved. The Forester may suspend a permit if necessary to protect public health, public safety, forest resources or improvements, or to obtain compliance with these Division rules.  (3) Bonds: For Commercial Use or Sponsored Events, the Forester may require the posting of a cash or surety bond or other guarantee in such form and in such amount as the Forester deems appropriate and sufficient to defray the costs of restoration and rehabilitation of the State Forest Land that may be affected by the permitted use. Bonds and guarantees will be returned to the permittee upon satisfactory compliance with all permit stipulations, including restoration and rehabilitation requirements.  (4) Insurance: For Commercial Use or Sponsored Events, the Forester may require a permittee, at the permittee’s expense, to obtain and keep in effect for the duration of the proposed event insurance coverages in types and amounts that are deemed satisfactory to the Forester, and which names the State of Oregon as an additional insured. The policy must stipulate that the Forester must be notified 30 days in advance of the termination or modification of the policy.  (5) Indemnity: For Commercial Use or Sponsored Events, the permittee must defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the State of Oregon against any responsibility or liability for damage, injury, or loss to Persons and property which may occur during the permitted use period or as a result of the permitted use. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 530.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.010 - 530.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 3-11-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 3-1995, f. & cert. ef. 9-15-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
