



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 LEASING FOR AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES AT STATE-OWNED AIRPORTS 
 738-015-0005 
 Leasing Application for Commercial Aeronautical Activities 
 
 (1) To obtain an initial commercial lease at a State-owned airport, a person shall submit a written application to Oregon Department of Aviation (the Department or ODA) for review, in the form specified by ODA. As a prerequisite to initially granting commercial aeronautical activity privileges or occupancy at a State-owned airport, the prospective Lessee must submit a specific, detailed description of the scope of the intended commercial aeronautical activities, as well as the means and methods to be employed to accomplish the contemplated activities. Applications for the renewal of existing leases or applications for additional initial leases submitted by current lessees may require a written application at the discretion of the Department.  (2) Required information that must accompany an application for commercial lease shall include:  (a) The legal name of the person applying as prospective Lessee, and its business name if different;  (b) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the person and the name of the primary contact individual;  (c) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all owners of five percent (5%) or more equity interest, management control, or debt in the entity;  (d) The proposed date for commencement of the intended activities and proposed base lease term for conducting these activities;  (e) A comprehensive listing of all activities proposed to be offered, along with copies of all applicable Federal, State, or local operating certificates and licenses held;  (f) For proposed agreements to lease existing structures or improvements, a description of the size, location, and proposed utilization of office, hangar, tiedown area(s), and vehicle parking area(s) to be utilized;  (g) For proposed agreements to lease unimproved State-owned airport areas, a layout (to scale) of the size, configuration, and location of the property proposed for occupancy, and preliminary drawing(s) of the building(s) and improvements to be constructed, together with identification of vehicle parking areas. Drawings shall be legible and reproducible with clearly defined dimensions. Each drawing shall be not less than 8.5 inches by 11 inches in size and be drawn in permanent media;  (h) The number of persons to be employed, including the name and qualifications of each management/supervisory person, and specifications as to whether the employees will be full-time, part-time, or seasonal;  (i) The number of aircraft to be utilized in connection with the proposed commercial aeronautical activities and, as soon as known, the make, model, passenger seating capacity, cargo capacity, aircraft registration number, and copies of applicable operating certificates for each aircraft; and  (j) A comprehensive list of the equipment, vehicles, and inventory proposed to be utilized in connection with the intended activities.  (3) The prospective lessee is responsible for providing any required infrastructure to support their proposed use of the site, at the lessee's expense. The prospective lessee shall provide to ODA prior to any construction, occupancy or use of the site written confirmation that all required services have been or will be installed (power, water, fire suppression, sewer, etc). Services must comply with local government and ODA requirements.  (4) At its option, the Department may:  (a) Request to review a written business plan; and  (b) Request a metes and bounds legal description of lease property boundaries. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035, 835.040 & 835.112 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 935.035, 935.040, 835.112 & 836.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2010, f. 6-9-10, cert. ef. 7-7-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 1-2010(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 1-7-10 thru 7-6-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 1-27-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 1-2002, f. & cert. ef. 9-3-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
