



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0055 
 Health Services Records 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the health services records of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Communicable Disease Records: Records fulfill the public health requirement of reporting the discovery of communicable disease. Records may include but are not limited to laboratory test results; name and address of student; date; and person making referral. Information is transferred to the county health department but the log is maintained by laboratory. Records may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(2). (Minimum retention: five years).  (2) Laboratory Inspection Records: Records document periodic in-house inspection of laboratory equipment. Records may include but are not limited to a checklist of all equipment, calibrations, and conditions. (Minimum retention: Two most recent inspections).  (3) Laboratory Test Requests: Records document physician orders for laboratory tests for students receiving services at the student health center. Records consist of lab test request forms showing name of student, date, test(s) ordered, and physician’s signature. (Minimum retention: five years).  (4) Licensure Records: Records document the licensing of student health center and facilities. Records may include but are not limited to license applications; license and inspection reports; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Until superseded).  (5) Medical Records: Records document medical services provided to students by the student health center. Records may include but are not limited to summary sheets; bacteriology test results; treatment record forms; diagnosis sheets; health history/screening sheets; initial evaluation/assessment sheets; referral sheets; health center billing statements; personal health history sheets; dental examination sheets and X-rays; laboratory test results; physical therapy notes; X-ray release forms; X-ray requisitions with narrative of radiologist; notes; memoranda; and correspondence. SEE ALSO: Student Athletes Medical Records in Intercollegiate Athletics Records section. Records may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(2). (Minimum retention: seven years after last service or until 21st birthday, whichever is longer).  (6) Patient Satisfaction Surveys: Records document patient comments on services provided by the student health center and are used to plan changes in services. The surveys may include but are not limited to rating of services; type of services rendered; statistics about the student; and possibly names and addresses. (Minimum retention: three years).  (7) Pharmacy Prescription Dispensing Records: Records are used to provide an individual, daily summary, and annual summary record of initial drug dispensing and refills administered by the student health center as required by the Oregon State Pharmacy Board. Records may include but are not limited to prescription slips; in-house computer-generated Rx registers; controlled substance reports; and data base purge reports. (Minimum retention: three years).  (8) Practitioner Schedules: Records document the practitioners’ work schedules and are used to clarify assigned responsibilities. Records include dates and times of assignments, practitioner names, and responsibilities. (Minimum retention: two years).  (9) Student Health Insurance: Records document students selection and purchase of insurance policies through the health center. The records may include but are not limited to benefit explanations; payment summaries; photocopies of checks; invoices; policy change sheets; ledgers; individual student correspondence relating to their coverage; and correspondence with the insurance company. (Minimum retention: five years). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
