



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DISTRICTS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL RECORDS 
 166-400-0025 
 Financial Records 
 
 (1) Accounts Payable Records Records document outstanding liabilities and provides a record of payment of bills by the school, district, or ESD, including payments from student body fund accounts, disbursed by school personnel. Records may include but are not limited to invoices, invoice vouchers, statements, vouchers, journal entry forms, purchase orders, payment authorizations, check requests, check registers, reports of receipt of goods or service, canceled checks or warrants, daily batch lists, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain records documenting expenditure of federal funds: 5 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (b) Retain all other records: 4 years.  (2) Accounts Receivable Records Records document billings and collections and provide a record of money owed to or received by the school, district, or ESD, including receivables for student body fund accounts collected by school personnel, for goods or services rendered. Records may serve as subsidiary ledgers of original entry or input which record the amounts received for goods and services. Records may include but are not limited to aging reports used to monitor accounts which are outstanding and overdue, invoices, invoice registers, billing records, receipts, receipts registers, cash receipt records; account edit sheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Records documenting recovery of federal supplied funds: 3 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (b) All other records: 3 years after collected or deemed uncollectible.  (3) Audit Reports Records document the examination of a school, district, or ESD’s financial condition by internal or independent auditors. Audits include an examination of the fiscal condition, internal controls and compliance with policies and procedures, accounting principles and methods, the accuracy and legality of transactions, and performance audits. Records may include but are not limited to audit reports (including those completed for student body fund accounts), supporting documentation, accountant’s summary, financial statements, balance sheet details, comments, summaries, recommendations, preparation records, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Audit report, official copy: Permanent (b) Grant fund audit records: 5 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (c) Other records: 4 years.  (4) Bank Transaction Records Records document the current status and transaction activity of school, district, or ESD funds held in bank accounts, including accounts for student body funds. Records may include but are not limited to account statements, deposit and withdrawal slips, redeemed, void, or canceled checks, check registers, interest payments, reconciliation worksheets or spreadsheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Records documenting grant fund transactions: 5 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (b) Other records: 3 years.  (5) Bond Records Records document the authorization and payment of bonds to finance school construction and improvements. Records may include but are not limited to authorizations, supporting financial documentation, bond ratings, and sample copies of bonds issued; paid bonds, coupons, and receipts; bond registers; and related documentation. SEE ALSO Bond Election Records in the Administrative Records section. Minimum retention: 3 years after final payment.  (6) Budget Preparation Records Records document the planning, development, estimation, and proposed budget requests for schools, districts, and ESDs. Records may include but are not limited to budget requests, spreadsheets, expenditure projection work papers and reports, budget proposals, budget development schedules, allotment reports, decision packages, spending plans, funding analysis, revenue projection reports, compensation plan proposals, contingency plans, fiscal impact analysis, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years.  (7) Budget Records Records document the annual financial plan approved by schools, districts, and ESDs. Records may monitor allotments, apportioned fiscal distributions, and expenditures. Records may include but are not limited to budget allotment reports, adopted budgets, budget messages, revenue and expenditure tracking records, status reports, operating programs, debt service, position and wage analysis, summaries, annual report to Oregon Department of Education, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Adopted budget, official copy: 20 years (b) Other records: 3 years.  (8) Check Conversion Records Records document checks received from customers that are electronically deposited after being imaged and converted to an Automated Clearing House (ACH) transaction or Image Replacement Document (IRD). Minimum Retention: (a) Retain original paper instrument 30 days, destroy (b) Retain ACH transaction or IRD 6 years, destroy.  (9) Competitive Bid Records Records document the publication, evaluation, rejection and award of quoted bids to vendors and other entities. Records may include but are not limited to requests for proposals (RFPs), requests for qualifications (RFQs), invitations to bid (ITBs), requests for information (RFIs), bid exemption documents, bid and quote lists, notices of bid opening and award, comparison summaries, spreadsheets, tabulation worksheets, bid advertising records, tally sheets, bid specifications, correspondence, and related records. SEE ALSO Purchasing Records in this section. Minimum retention: (a) Retain accepted bids 10 years after substantial completion (as defined by ORS 12.135(3)(b) Retain other accepted bids: 6 years after bid awarded or canceled (c) Retain rejected bids and bid exemptions: 2 years after bid awarded or canceled.  (10) Credit and Debit Receipts Agency’s copy of credit or debit card receipt documenting payment received by agency. Records include customer’s name and account information. Minimum Retention: Retain 36 months after transaction, destroy.  (11) Credit Slips Slips issued to citizens who have withdrawn from agency-sponsored classes or activities and are due credit for all or part of fees paid. Information usually includes name of class or activity, date, expiration date, name and address of citizen, and related data. Minimum retention: 3 years after credit expired or redeemed.  (12) Employee Bond Records Records document the post of fidelity, performance, or position bonds to guarantee the honest and faithful performance of school, district, and ESD employees. Information may include but is not limited to person’s name, amount of coverage, dates, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 6 years after expiration.  (13) Financial Reports Records document the financial condition, operation, and activities of schools, districts, and ESDs. Records may include but are not limited to organization and function statements, accounting of income and expenditures, balance sheets, revenue statements, fund balance reports, notes to the financial statements, and exhibits. Exhibits may include a working trial balance by fund type, adjustments to accounting data, cash flow analysis, and other supporting documentation. Reports may also be completed for student body fund accounts. Records may include monthly, quarterly, or annual reports. Minimum retention: (a) Retain annual report, official copy: Permanent (b) Retain working papers and draft material: 1 year after acceptance of Annual Report (c) Retain all other Financial Reports 3 years.  (14) General Ledgers Records document all fiscal transactions of the school, district, or ESD. The ledgers summarize the accounts and reflect the financial position of the school, district, or ESD. Information often includes debit, credit, and balance amounts per account; budget, fund, and department numbers; and totals for notes receivable, interest income, amounts due from other funds, federal grants received; bank loans received, cash in escrow, deferred loan received, cash, encumbrances, revenue, accounts receivable, and accounts payable; and related documentation and data. SEE ALSO Subsidiary Ledgers, Journals, and Registers in this section. Minimum retention: (a) Retain year-end ledgers: 10 years (b) Retain all other general ledgers: 3 years.  (15) Gift and Contribution Records Records document gifts and contributions to the school, district, and ESD, including contributions to student body funds. Records may include but are not limited to memorial donation records related to money to be used by the institution in the name of an individual, donor and acknowledgment letters, acquisition lists itemizing purchases made with contributed money, checks, receipts, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain conditional gift, contribution, and donation records: 6 years after expiration of agreement or conditions met (b) Retain all other records: 3 years.  (16) Grant Records Records document the application, evaluation, awarding, administration, monitoring, and status of grants in which the agency is the recipient, grantor, allocator, or administrator. Grants may come from federal or state governments or foundations or other funding sources. Records may include but are not limited to applications including project proposals, summaries, objectives, activities, budgets, exhibits, and award notification; grant evaluation records and recommendations concerning grant applications; grant administration records including progress reports, budgets, project objectives, proposals, and summaries; records documenting allocation of funds; contracts; records monitoring project plans and measuring achievement; equipment inventories; financial reports, accounting records, audit reports, expenditure reports, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain final reports from significant grants to the School, District, ESD: Permanent (b) Retain records documenting the purchase and/or disposal of real property: 10 years after substantial completion (as defined by ORS 12.135(3)), or 3 years after final disposition, or as specified in agreement, whichever is longer (c) Retain other grant records: 3 years after annual or final expenditure report submitted and approved or, as specified in agreement, whichever is longer (d) Retain unsuccessful grant applications: 1 year after rejection or withdrawal.  (17) Investment Records Records document financial investments made by schools, districts, or ESDs. Records may include but are not limited to time certificates of deposit, interest income distribution, and tax anticipation notes. Information includes date purchased, date received, date matured, accrued interest, total interest to date, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after investment maturity.  (18) Lease Records Records document the lease or rental of school, district, or ESD owned property to other parties, and lease or rental of facilities from other parties. Records may include but are not limited to include leases, rental agreements, amendments, addenda, authorizations, and related correspondence and documentation. Leases are typically for office space, equipment, machinery, real estate, or facilities. Minimum retention: 6 years after expiration.  (19) Petty Cash Fund Records Records document petty cash activity for a school (including student body funds), district, or ESD. Records include but are not limited to requests and authorizations to establish petty cash funds, ledgers, statements, requests for disbursements, copies of receipts and invoices, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years.  (20) Purchasing Records Records document the purchase of goods and services by a school, district, or ESD, including purchases through a student body fund account. Records may include but are not limited to purchase orders and requests; purchase authorizations; requisitions; contract release orders; price agreements; material and cost specifications; copy, print, service, and other types of work orders, receipt and delivery documentation, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain records documenting expenditure of federal funds: 5 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (b) Retain all other records: 3 years.  (21) Revenue Records Records document application for and receipt of funds from local, state, and federal revenue sources and disbursement to the school, district, or ESD. Records include funds received directly from federal agencies or apportioned to the school, district, or ESD through the Oregon Department of Education or other state agencies. Records may include but are not limited to projection reports of forecasted revenue earnings; revenue registers listing revenue earned; fund applications and awards; performance and financial reports; supporting fiscal documentation; reimbursement requests and claim records; and related correspondence. Local revenue sources may include tax levies, tuition, local government units, adult continuing education programs, summer school programs, schools transportation and food service programs, community services programs, textbook and other rentals, and private contributions. Intermediate revenue sources may include county school funds, ESD equalization and special program funds, and state timber revenue funds. State revenue sources may include basic school support funds, common school funds, state timber revenue funds, and special education, driver education, vocational education, and special school assistance funds. Federal revenue sources may include migrant education, Indian education, and other funds. Minimum retention: (a) Retain records of revenue from federal and state sources: 5 years after final or annual expenditure report accepted (b) Retain all other records: 3 years.  (22) Signature Authorization Records Records document that designated school, district, or ESD employees are authorized to sign fiscal and contractual documents, including those involving student body funds. Minimum retention: 6 years after authorization superseded or expired.  (23) Student Organization Financial Records Records document the budgeting, accounting, and financial affairs of student organizations including student clubs, government, and publications. Records may include but are not limited to bank statements, deposit slips, cancelled checks/vouchers, receipts, and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: 3 years after school year in which records were created.  (24) Subsidiary Ledgers, Journals, and Registers Records document details of fiscal transactions by a school, district, or ESD such as those related to receipts and expenditures on a daily, monthly, quarterly, or similar basis. Records include journals, ledgers, registers, day books, transaction reports, trial balance reports, and other account books or reports that provide documentation for the general ledger or financial reports. Records may include details of revenues, expenditures, encumbrances, cash receipts, warrants, and other financial records. Information often includes date, payee, purpose, fund credited or debited, check number, and related data. SEE ALSO General Ledgers in this section and Payroll Registers in the Payroll Records section. Minimum retention: (a) Retain year end payroll register: 75 years (b) Retain trust fund ledgers: 3 years after trust fund closed (c) Retain all other subsidiary ledgers, journals, and registers: 3 years.  (25) Travel Expense Records Records document requests, authorizations, travel advances and reimbursement claims made by school, district, or ESD employees for travel and related expenses. Records may include but are not limited to travel expense reports and receipts, supporting documentation, and related correspondence. Minimum retention: 3 years.  (26) Unclaimed Property Report Records Records document annual reports submitted to the Department of State Lands of financial assets being held for a person or entity that cannot be found. Series includes Holder Report, owner information, correspondence and other related documents. Note: Unclaimed property is not real estate, abandoned personal property, or lost and found items. Minimum Retention: 3 years after the property is remitted to the Department of State Lands.  (27) Vendor Records Records document vendors and suppliers providing goods and services to the school, district, or ESD. Records may include but are not limited to lists name and address of vendor or company; description of goods and services provided; catalogs; promotional and advertising materials; product specification sheets; copies of purchase orders and requisitions; packing slips; price quotations; and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 & Other Auth. Code of Federal Regulations Title 34 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2010, f. & cert. ef. 5-27-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 166-408-0010, OSA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
