



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 86 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING — ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICES 
 411-086-0360 
 Resident Furnishings, Equipment 
 
 (1) Resident Equipment:  (a) Each resident shall be provided a bed, mattress, pillow with water-proof protection, necessary bed coverings, bedside table and chair, reading light, and electrically operated call system which registers at the nurses’ station. The call system cord shall be secured in a manner which makes it accessible to the resident and which prevents the resident from injuring himself/herself with it;  (b) According to his/her needs, each resident shall be provided with individual equipment, such as bedpans, bedpan covers, urinals, washbasins, emesis basins, mouthwash cups, soap, washcloths, towels, and drinking glasses;  (c) Equipment such as wheelchairs, walkers, geri-chairs and crutches shall be readily available for residents needing this equipment;  (d) After the discharge of any resident, the bed, bed furnishings, bedside furniture, and all multiple-use resident equipment shall be thoroughly cleansed and disinfected prior to re-use. Mattresses shall be professionally renovated when necessary;  (e) Single resident use items must be identified with resident name and disposed of upon resident discharge;  (f) Hot water bags and electric heating pads or blankets may be used only on the written order of the physician;  (g) In nursing facilities caring for pediatric residents, an emergency signaling system for use by attendants summoning assistance and a two-way voice intercommunication system between the nurses’ station and rooms or wards housing pediatric residents shall be provided.  (2) Storage Space. Separate storage space for clothing, toilet articles, and other personal belongings of residents shall be provided.  (3) Privacy. In multiple-bed rooms, opportunity for privacy shall be provided by flame retardant curtains or screens. Cubicle curtains or screens are not required for beds assigned to pediatric residents.  (4) Linen Supply. The use of torn or unclean bed linen is prohibited. Facilities shall have a linen supply available for at least three times the usual bed occupancy. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070, 410.090 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 19-1990, f. 8-29-90, cert. ef. 10-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
