



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 600 BUSINESS ENERGY TAX CREDITS FOR  RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCE EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING BETC (MANUFACTURING BETC) 
 123-600-0105 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply unless the context requires otherwise:  (1) “Applicant” means a person who applies for preliminary certification of a Manufacturing BETC facility under this section including individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and joint stock companies.  (2) “Cost” means the capital costs and expenses necessarily incurred in the erection, construction, installation and acquisition of a facility.  (3) “Completed application” means receipt of payments under OAR 123-600-0140 and all information required in the application form to demonstrate substantive compliance with the provisions of ORS 285C.540 to 285C.559 and any applicable rules or standards adopted by the Director, and all supplemental attachments, exhibits and so forth that the Applicant furnishes at the Department’s request under these rules for the Manufacturing BETC.  (4) “Completed Facility” means a manufacturing facility that is operating in accordance with requirements in the Preliminary Certificate and performance agreement between the Department and the Applicant for which all costs have been paid or committed by a binding contract or agreement.  (5) “Component parts of electric vehicles” means component parts that are for exclusive use in electric vehicles and may not be used in both electric and conventional vehicles. A component part of electric vehicles does not include batteries.  (6) “Director” means the Director of the Oregon Business Development Department or designees.  (7) “Department” means the Oregon Business Development Department, aka: Business Oregon.  (8) “Electric vehicles” means vehicles that are designed for use as Class I or Class II all-terrain vehicles, as those terms are defined in ORS 801.190 and 801.193, and that are used for agricultural, commercial, industrial or governmental purposes, or vehicles that are designed for use as modes of transportation on public roads and highways. The Director of the Oregon Business Development Department may further define “agricultural, commercial, industrial or governmental purposes” of electric vehicles.  (9) “Facility operator” means the person or people to whom the Applicant gives authority to manage a facility. Such person or people shall be the Applicant’s agent for all reasons related to the facility once its development begins.  (10) “Facility start” means the earliest date on or after the date the application for preliminary certification is received by the Department where a non-refundable deposit will be placed on the facility equipment or; a purchase order will be placed for the equipment or; a contract for the design of the facility will be executed or; a document that obligates the Applicant to proceed with a facility will be executed; or any other type of financial commitment towards the erection, construction, installation or acquisition of the facility.  (11) “Federal grant” means any grant received from the federal government in connection with a facility.  (12) “Final certification” means the review and approval of the application for final certification leading to issuance of a final certificate for a completed facility under ORS 285C.551.  (13) “Lease contract” means a lease-purchase contract in which the lessee owns the facility at the end of the lease and is eligible for the Manufacturing BETC, or a lease or lease-option contract in which the lessor owns the facility through the life of the contract and is eligible for the Manufacturing BETC.  (14) “Pass-through payment” means a minimum cash payment equivalent to the net present value of the Manufacturing BETC as determined under OAR 123-600-0135. This is also referred to as the “pass-through rate.”  (15) “Pass-through option” means the option that allows an Applicant a one time only transfer of all or a portion of the facility’s tax credit eligibility to certain persons or businesses in return for a cash payment.  (16) “Pass-through partner” means a personal income tax payer, individual, C corporation or S corporation that is transferred a tax credit certificate in return for a cash payment to an Applicant.  (17) “Preliminary certification” means the review and approval of the application for preliminary certification leading to issuance of a preliminary certificate for an eligible facility under ORS 285C.551.  (18) “Renewable energy resource” means energy derived from sources including but not limited to: straw, forest slash, wood waste or other wastes from farm or forest land, nonpetroleum plant or animal based biomass, ocean wave energy, solar energy, wind power, water power or geothermal energy.  (19) “Renewable energy resource equipment manufacturing facility” means any structure, building, installation, excavation, device, machinery or equipment, or an addition, reconstruction or improvement to land, to an existing structure, building, installation, excavation or device or to existing machinery or equipment, that is necessarily acquired, constructed or installed by a person in connection with the conduct of a trade or business and that is used primarily to manufacture:  (a) Component parts of electric vehicles.  (b) Electric vehicles.  (c) Equipment, machinery or other products designed to use a renewable energy resource and that meets the criteria established under ORS 285C.543 and these rules.  (d) Renewable energy storage devices. [2011 c.474 §5]  (20) “Renewable energy storage device” means a device that enables the storage of energy derived from renewable energy resources. A renewable energy storage device a facility does not need to be directly connected to a renewable energy resource, but a beneficial relationship shall be demonstrated between the energy output of the resource or resources and the charge and discharge capabilities of the facility. The storage device may be designed to store energy for transmission lines provided that the transmission lines serve, at least in part, renewable energy resources. A renewable energy storage device includes, but is not limited to, batteries or similar devices used to provide propulsive energy in electric vehicles.  (21) “Research, development, or demonstration facility (RDD)” means a facility under ORS 285C.545 (3) and subject to standards adopted by the Director in these rules that is not standard practice and produces or is likely to produce new renewable resource generating and conservation technologies or products in Oregon when commercialized. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285C.540 - 285C.559, ORS 315.341, OL 2011 & Ch. 474 HB2523 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285C.540-559, 315.341, OL 2011, Ch. 474 HB2523, OL 2012 & Ch. 45 HB 4079 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 8-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
