



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 YOUTH SUICIDE COMMUNICATION AND POST-INTERVENTION PLAN 
 309-027-0040 
 Response Protocol
 
 
 (1) Each LMHA, in collaboration with community partners, shall develop a Response Protocol identifying tribes, community partners, programs, individuals and others within the community that may be notified of a suspected youth suicide or mobilized to provide post-intervention response to a suspected youth suicide. 
(2) At minimum, the Response Protocol shall: 
(a) Identify the community partners and youth-serving entities, which shall be involved in developing and implementing the Response Protocol; 
(b) Identify the roles, responsibilities, services, and available resources of each community partner involved in implementing the Response Protocol including the immediate, intermediate and long-term postvention response; 
(c) Identify the process for notification to local systems that had contact with the decedent individual in the event of a suspected youth suicide. This may include: 
(A) Sample scripts for communication of death notification to local youth-serving entities; 
(B) A description of the process to determine what information should be included in each notification. 
(d) Identify how a Postvention Response Lead shall be identified for responding to each suspected youth suicide. The Postvention Response Lead may vary, depending on the circumstances and may be an individual designated by a tribe, school district or university, the LMHA, or another community partner. The Postvention Response Lead is responsible for coordinating postvention response and the notification process to local systems that had contact with the decedent in the event of a suspected youth suicide. The Postvention Response Lead for the Response Protocol also may be the Communication Lead; 
(e) Establish and disseminate the postvention notification and response process among community partners and youth-serving entities or individuals connected to the decedent, including outreach to families, families of choice, and tribes, if applicable; and 
(f) Identify the evaluation process used by community partners to debrief and assess the effectiveness of each suspected youth suicide response and the mechanism to adjust processes, as indicated, in the future. The evaluation process shall include an assessment of the effectiveness of meeting the needs of grieving families and families of choice; friends or others with relationships with the decedent; and the wider network of community members impacted by the suspected youth suicide; 
(g) Identify how the Primary LMHA will notify other LMHAs linked to the decedent through residency, employment, school attendance, or significant family or social ties. 
(3) The LMHA shall document the completed Response Protocol in writing and submit to the Coordinator. 
(4) At least annually on or before December 15th, each LMHA in collaboration with community partners shall review the Response Protocol to debrief and evaluate the protocol’s effectiveness in the past year, and provide a rationale for all revisions to the Coordinator. 
(5) For the purposes of Response Protocols, the Coordinator shall: 
(a) Review the response protocols submitted by the LMHAs; 
(b) Review any revisions to the response protocols submitted annually; and 
(c) Provide feedback to the LMHA and offer technical assistance on best practices for development and implementation of the protocols. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042, 430.630 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.735 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 6-2021, amend filed 02/24/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 24-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-5-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
