



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 COORDINATION RULES 
 731-015-0065 
 Coordination Procedures for Adopting Final Facility Plans 
 
 (1) Except in the case of minor amendments, the Department shall involve DLCD and affected metropolitan planning organizations, cities, counties, state and federal agencies, special districts and other interested parties in the development or amendment of a facility plan. This involvement may take the form of mailings, meetings or other means that the Department determines are appropriate for the circumstances. The Department shall hold at least one public meeting on the plan prior to adoption.  (2) The Department shall provide a draft of the proposed facility plan to planning representatives of all affected cities, counties and metropolitan planning organization and shall request that they identify any specific plan requirements which apply, any general plan requirements which apply and whether the draft facility plan is compatible with the acknowledged comprehensive plan. If no reply is received from an affected city, county or metropolitan planning organization within 30 days of the Department’s request for a compatibility determination, the Department shall deem that the draft plan is compatible with that jurisdiction’s acknowledged comprehensive plan. The Department may extend the reply time if requested to do so by an affected city, county or metropolitan planning organization.  (3) If any statewide goal or comprehensive plan conflicts are identified, the Department shall meet with the local government planning representatives to discuss ways to resolve the conflicts. These may include:  (a) Changing the draft facility plan to eliminate the conflicts;  (b) Working with the local governments to amend the local comprehensive plans to eliminate the conflicts; or  (c) Identifying the conflicts in the draft facility plan and including policies that commit the Department to resolving the conflicts prior to the conclusion of the transportation planning program for the affected portions of the transportation facility.  (4) The Department shall evaluate and write draft findings of compatibility with acknowledged comprehensive plans of affected cities and counties, findings of compliance with any statewide planning goals which specifically apply as determined by OAR 660-030-0065(3)(d), and findings of compliance with all provisions of other statewide planning goals that can be clearly defined if the comprehensive plan of an affected city or county contains no conditions specifically applicable or any general provisions, purposes or objectives that would be substantially affected by the facility plan.  (5) The Department shall present to the Transportation Commission the draft plan, findings of compatibility with the acknowledged comprehensive plans of affecting cities and counties and findings of compliance with applicable statewide planning goals.  (6) The Transportation Commission shall adopt findings of compatibility with the acknowledged comprehensive plans of affected cities and counties and findings of compliance with applicable statewide planning goals when it adopts the final facility plan.  (7) The Department shall provide copies of the adopted final facility plan and findings to DLCD, to affected metropolitan planning organizations, cities, counties, state and federal agencies, special districts and to others who request to receive a copy. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 9-26-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
