



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 65 SPECIALIZED LIVING SERVICES CONTRACTS 
 411-065-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) "Activities of Daily Living (ADL)" means activities usually performed in the course of a normal day in an individual's life, such as eating, dressing, bathing and personal hygiene, mobility, bowel and bladder control, and behavior.  (2) "Area Agency on Aging (AAA)" means the Department of Human Services (DHS) designated agency charged with the responsibility to provide a comprehensive and coordinated system of services to seniors or people with disabilities in a planning and service area. For purposes of these rules, the term Area Agency on Aging (AAA) is inclusive of both Type A and Type B Area Agencies on Aging as defined in ORS 410.040 through 410.300.  (3) "Brain Injury" means sudden onset of a neurological disorder secondary to disease or trauma.  (4) "Client or Resident" means an individual for whom payment is made under Oregon's Title XIX.  (5) "Change of Ownership" means a change in the individual or organization responsible for operating the program. Events which change ownership include but are not limited to the following:  (a) The form of the legal organization of the owner is changed (e.g., sole proprietor forms a partnership or corporation; a corporation or partnership dissolves);  (b) The title of the organization is transferred to another party;  (c) The facility which is the site of the specialized services program has its license or its lease terminated; or  (d) The facility which is the site of the specialized services program terminates its contract for specialized services with the provider.  (6) "Cost Effective" means a comparison between service costs to the target group absent the specialized services and the service costs to the target group with the specialized services in relation to the goal of helping the members of the target group attain more independent living. Cost comparisons should include short-term and long-term costs and benefits, and the difference, if any, between local costs and average statewide costs for providing comparable services.  (7) "Department" means the Department of Human Services, Seniors and People with Disabilities (SPD).  (8) "Provider" means an organization or individual who contracts with the Department to coordinate and implement the specialized services.  (9) "Service Plan" means the observation, assessment, care planning and documentation of the client's physical, cognitive and psycho-social needs, and the supervision, coordination and documentation of the services provided to meet those needs.  (10) "Special Approval" means approval given by the Department and the local AAA to a provider offering specialized services that meet the intent of these rules. The approval is granted only to a specific location and provider and is not transferable.  (11) "Specialized Services" means identifiable services designed to meet the needs of persons in specific target groups which exist as the result of a problem, condition or dysfunction resulting from a physical disability or a behavioral disorder and require more than basic services of other established programs. These services will be directed toward helping the residents toward more independent living.  (12) "Target Group" means any group of persons with similar needs based on specific and identified disabilities of brain injury, brain injury quadriplegic, brain injury paraplegic, or quadriplegic, who are eligible for a live-in attendant, and who need restorative care that cannot be provided in existing services in Residential Care Facilities, Adult Foster Homes, or other Community Based Care Settings. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 26-2006, f. 8-22-06, cert. ef. 9-1-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 19-1991, f. & cert. ef. 10-10-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 5-1982, f. 5-12-82, ef. 5-15-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
