



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 120 WETLAND CONSERVATION PLAN WETLAND RESOURCE DESIGNATIONS AND ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES 
 141-120-0180 
 Planned Infrastructure 
 
 Planned infrastructure may be authorized in a wetland designated in the Conservation Category in the following manner:  (1) The party sponsoring the planned infrastructure may receive authorization directly from the Division under ORS 196.682; or  (2) The Director may find that the project avoids wetlands in the WCP area to the degree practicable. If so, the Director’s order approving the WCP may identify the approximate location of the planned infrastructure if the local government:  (a) Determines that the need for the planned infrastructure exists by showing that:  (A) Existing development is dependent on the planned infrastructure; or  (B) The planned infrastructure is required to allow access to buildable uplands.  (b) Provides a showing of actions considered and taken to avoid and minimize impacts to the wetland system in the planning area; and  (c) Provides the general area for the location of the planned infrastructure.  (d) To obtain authorization from the Division to construct planned infrastructure with its approximate location identified in the Director’s order:  (A) The local government shall provide:  (i) The final alignment and right of way for the planned infrastructure; and  (ii) The steps considered and taken to avoid and minimize impacts to the wetland including bridging, culverting and placing the infrastructure at other locations within the wetland.  (B) The Director shall evaluate the information provided under paragraph (2)(d)(A) of this rule in the expedited fashion authorized under ORS 196.682.  (3) The Director’s order approving the WCP may authorize construction of planned infrastructure if the local government:  (a) Determines that the need for the planned infrastructure exists by showing that:  (A) Existing development is dependent on the planned infrastructure; or  (B) The planned infrastructure is required to allow access to buildable uplands.  (b) Provides a showing of actions considered and taken to avoid and minimize impacts to the wetland system in the planning area;  (c) Provides the final alignment and right of way for the planned infrastructure; and  (d) Provides the steps considered and taken to avoid and minimize impacts to the wetland including bridging, culverting and placing the infrastructure at other locations within the wetland.  (4) “Showing” in this rule means findings of fact with supporting reasons. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.692 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.678 - 196.692, 215 & 227.350 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LB 6-1994, f. & cert. ef. 10-20-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
