



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 GROUNDWATER QUALITY PROTECTION 
 340-040-0150 
 Wellhead Protection: Definitions
 
 
 (1) “Contingency Plan” means a document setting out an organized, planned, and coordinated course of action to be followed in the event of a loss of capacity to supply water to the distribution system or in case of a fire, explosion, or release of hazardous waste or hazardous waste constituents which could threaten human health or the environment. 

 (2) “Department” means the Department of Environmental Quality. 

 (3) “Delineation” means the determination of the extent, orientation, and boundaries of a wellhead protection area using factors such as geology, aquifer characteristics, well pumping rates, and time of travel. 

 (4) “Element” means one of seven components considered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as the minimum required components in any state wellhead protection program: 

 (a) Specification of duties; 

 (b) Delineation of the wellhead protection area; 

 (c) Inventory of potential contaminant sources; 

 (d) Specification of management approaches; 

 (e) Development of contingency plans; 

 (f) Addressing new (future) wells and springs; and 

 (g) Ensuring public participation. 

 (5) “Governmental Entity” means any local, state, Indian tribe, or federal organization or agency which may own or manage lands or activities within a Wellhead Protection Area. 

 (6) “Plan” means Wellhead Protection Plan. 

 (7) “Potential Contaminant Source” means any activity which has the potential to release contaminants to the groundwater. 

 (8) “Public Water System” means a system supplying water for human consumption that has four or more service connections or supplies water to a public or commercial establishment which operates a total of at least 60 days per year, and which is used by ten or more individuals per day. 

 (9) “Responsible Management Authority” means the Public Water System whose water supply is being protected and any governmental entity with management, rule or ordinance making authority to implement wellhead protection management strategies within a Wellhead Protection Area. Responsible Management Authorities are responsible for implementation of the Wellhead Protection Plan; includes cities, counties, special districts, Indian tribes, state/federal government entities as well as Public Water Systems. 

 (10) “Signatory” means any Responsible Management Authority in the Wellhead Protection Area who signs the Wellhead Protection Plan. Signing the Plan indicates the Responsible Management Authority will implement the actions outlined for their jurisdiction in the Plan. 

 (11) “Stakeholder(s)” means person(s) and/or governmental entity(ies) who could or will be affected by activities or requirements that may be required within a local wellhead protection area. 

 (12) “Team” means the local Wellhead Protection Team, which includes representatives from the Responsible Management Authorities and various interests and stakeholders potentially affected by the Wellhead Protection Plan. 

 (13) “Wellhead Protection Area” means the surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well, spring or wellfield, supplying a public water system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach that water well, spring, or wellfield. 

 (14) “Wellhead Protection Plan” refers to a Department certified plan which identifies the actions to be taken at the local level to protect a specific defined Wellhead Protection Area. The Plan is developed by the local Responsible Management Authority(ies) and/or team and includes a written description of each element, public participation efforts, and an implementation schedule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 & 468B 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468 & 468B 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 34-2018, minor correction filed 04/02/2018, effective 04/02/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 1-18-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
