



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 124 AVIATION SYSTEM ACTION PROGRAM FUND 
 738-124-0060 
 ARC Review and Recommendation of COAR Applications 
 
 (1) The Department shall provide all eligible applications from eligible Applicants, including supporting materials, to the ARC.  

 (2) The ARC shall hold public meetings as necessary to review eligible applications and to prepare approval and rejection recommendations to the Board.  

 (3) In reviewing applications, the ARC shall consider:  

 (a) The extent to which, if implemented, the project proposed in the Application would:  

 (A) Assist airports in Oregon with match requirements for FAA grants;  

 (B) Support emergency preparedness and infrastructure goals in accordance with the Oregon Resilience Plan or the Oregon Aviation Plan; or  

 (C) Support services critical or essential to aviation, including, but not limited to, fuel, sewer, water and weather equipment; support aviation-related business development, including, but not limited to, hangars, parking for business aircraft and related facilities; or support airport development for local economic benefit, including, but not limited to, signage and marketing; or to assist commercial air service to rural Oregon.  

 (b) Whether the project proposed in the application:  

 (A) Reduces transportation costs for Oregon businesses or improves access to jobs and sources of labor in Oregon;  

 (B) Results in an economic benefit to Oregon;  

 (C) Connects elements of Oregon’s aviation system in a way that will measurably improve utilization and efficiency of the system;  

 (D) Is ready for construction or implementation, including whether the project has any unique construction-readiness, project implementation challenges, or possible delays; and  

 (E) Has a useful life expectancy that offers maximum benefit to Oregon.  

 (c) How much of the costs of the project proposed in the application can be borne by the Applicant from sources other than the Department or the Connect Oregon Fund.  

 (4) For each applicable criterion, the ARC will rate whether the proposed project “Meets,” “Somewhat Meets” or “Does not Meet” the criterion. For purposes of this process, those terms have the following meanings:  

 (a) “Meets” means that the Applicant explained in a thorough and specific manner how the project meets the criterion and provided thorough evidence, including specific facts, specific examples, reliable figures, or detailed citations to supporting attachments to the application to support the Applicant’s explanation.  

 (b) “Somewhat Meets” means that the Applicant provided a general, superficial or non-specific explanation how the project meets the criterion or provided only limited or incomplete supporting evidence to support the Applicant’s explanation.  

 (c) “Does Not Meet” means that either:  

 (A) The Applicant reported that the project did not meet the criterion; or  

 (B) The Applicant provided an incomplete or implausible explanation of how the project meets the criterion or provided no evidence or only minimal, implausible or unreliable evidence to support the Applicant’s explanation.  

 (5) Prioritizing COAR applications: In prioritizing applications submitted for COAR funds, the ARC may consider the following factors:  

 (a) The percentage of total project cost that the Applicant is able to bear.  

 (b) Projects related to safety or infrastructure.  

 (c) Quantity of projects applied for at a single airport within the same grant cycle.  

 (d) Regional significance.  

 (6) Based on its review of eligible applications, the ARC shall:  

 (a) Prepare a brief report to the Board with respect to all eligible applications which recommends approval or rejection by the Board.  

 (b) For COAR applications that the ARC recommends the Board approve, the ARC shall prepare a prioritized list of applications, ranking them in the following priority:  

 (A) First, to assist airports in Oregon with match requirements for FAA grants.  

 (B) Second, to make grants for emergency preparedness and infrastructure projects, in accordance with the Oregon Resilience Plan or the Oregon Aviation Plan.  

 (C) Third, to make grants for:  

 (i) Services critical or essential to aviation, including, but not limited to, fuel, sewer, water, navigational aids and weather equipment; or  

 (ii) Aviation-related business development, including, but not limited to, hangars, parking for business aircraft and related facilities; or  

 (iii) Airport development for local economic benefit, including, but not limited to, signage and marketing; or  

 (iv) Assisting commercial air service to rural Oregon.  

 (7) The Department shall provide the ARC’s report and prioritized list to the Board no more than 10 business days following the ARC review.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035, ORS 835.040, ORS 835.112 & ORS 319.023 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 835.025, ORS 835.035 & ORS 319.023 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2024, amend filed 06/25/2024, effective 07/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 4-2022, amend filed 08/29/2022, effective 08/29/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 1-2020, adopt filed 02/13/2020, effective 02/13/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
