



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 76 AMBULATORY SURGICAL CENTERS (ASC) AND EXTENDED STAY CENTERS (ESC) 
 333-076-0970 
 ESC Pharmacy Services 
 
 (1) In an ESC that does not have a pharmacy on the premises, stock quantities of prescription drugs, including local anesthetics, shall be stored on the premises only when such drugs have been obtained for dispensation or administration to respective patients by a physician, dentist, podiatrist or other person authorized within the scope of his or her license to so dispense or administer such drugs. Prescribed drugs already prepared for patients in the ESC may also be stored on the premises. 

 (2) Old medications, including special prescriptions for patients who have left the facility, shall be disposed of by incineration or other equally effective method, except narcotics and other drugs under the drug abuse law, which shall be handled in the manner prescribed by the Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States Department of Justice and the Oregon Board of Pharmacy. 

 (3) Drugs shall not be administered to patients unless ordered by a physician, dentist, podiatrist or individual authorized within the scope of his or her professional license to prescribe drugs. Such order shall be in writing over the physician's or other authorized individual's signature or authentication. 

 (4) Prescription drugs dispensed by a physician shall be personally dispensed by the physician. Dispensing functions may be delegated to staff assistants when the accuracy and completeness of the prescription is verified by the physician and where no independent judgement of the staff assistant is required. 

 (5) The dispensing physician shall label prescription drugs with the following information: 

 (a) Name of patient; 

 (b) The name and address of the dispensing physician; 

 (c) Date of dispensing; 

 (d) The name of the drug. If the dispensed drug does not have a brand name, the prescription label shall indicate the generic name of the drug dispensed along with the name of the drug distributor or manufacturer, its quantity per unit and the directions for its use stated in the prescription. However, if the drug is a compound, the quantity per unit need not be stated; 

 (e) Cautionary statements, if any, as required by law; and 

 (f) When applicable, and as determined by the Oregon Board of Pharmacy, an expiration date after which the patient should not use the drug. 

 (6) Prescription drugs shall be dispensed in containers complying with the federal Poison Prevention Packaging Act unless the patient requests a noncomplying container. 

 (7) Pharmacist and pharmacy personnel providing services to the ESC are subject to ORS chapter 689 and the rules thereunder. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441.025 & OL 2018 Chapter 50 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.025 & OL 2018 Chapter 50 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 1-2019, adopt filed 01/07/2019, effective 01/07/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
