



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 INCINERATOR REGULATIONS 
 340-230-0330 
 Municipal Waste Combustors: Operator Training and Certification 
 
 (1) Each chief facility operator and shift supervisor must have completed full certification with either the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) (QRO-1-1994 — see 40 CFR 60.17) or other State approved certification program.  (2) If a chief facility operator or shift supervisor is not fully certified in accordance with section (1) of this rule, the chief facility operator and shift supervisor must obtain and maintain a current provisional operator certification from either the ASME (QRO-1-1994 — see 40 CFR 60.17) or other State approved certification and must have scheduled a full certification exam with either the ASME (QRO-1-1994) or other State approved certification program.  (3) No owner or operator of an affected facility may allow the facility to be operated at any time unless one of the following persons is on duty and at the affected facility: A fully certified chief facility operator, a provisionally certified chief facility operator who is scheduled to take the full certification exam, a fully certified shift supervisor, or a provisionally certified shift supervisor who is scheduled to take the full certification exam.  (a) If both the certified chief operator and certified shift supervisor are unavailable, a provisionally certified control room operator on site at the affected facility may fulfill the certified operator requirement. Depending on the length of time that a certified chief operator and certified shift supervisor are away, the owner or operator of the affected facility must meet one of the three criteria:  (A) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are both off site for 12 hours or less, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor.  (B) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than 12 hours, but for two weeks or less, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without notice or approval. However, the owner or operator of the affected facility must record the period when the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site and include that information in the annual report as specified under OAR 340-230-0350(3)(e).  (C) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than two weeks, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without approval. However, the owner or operator of the affected facility must take two actions:  (i) Notify the in writing. In the notice, state what caused the absence and what actions are being taken by the owner or operator of the facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is on site as expeditiously as practicable.  (ii) Submit a status report and corrective action summary to the every four weeks following the initial notification. If the Department provides notice that the status report or corrective action summary is disapproved, the municipal waste combustion unit may continue operation for 90 days, but then must cease operation. If corrective actions are taken in the 90-day period such that the Department withdraws the disapproval, municipal waste combustion unit operation may continue.  (b) A provisionally certified operator who is newly promoted or recently transferred to a shift supervisor position or a chief facility operator position at the municipal waste combustion unit may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without notice to, or approval for up to six months before taking the ASME QRO certification exam.  (4) The owner or operator of an affected facility must develop and update on a yearly basis a site-specific operating manual that, at a minimum, addresses the elements of municipal waste combustor unit operation specified in subsections (4)(a) through (k) of this rule:  (a) A summary of the applicable standards under OAR 340-230-0310 through 340-230-0335;  (b) A description of basic combustion theory applicable to a municipal waste combustor unit;  (c) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding municipal solid waste;  (d) Municipal waste combustor unit startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures;  (e) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;  (f) Procedures for operating the municipal waste combustor unit within the standards established under OAR 340-230-0310 through 340-230-0335;  (g) Procedures for responding to periodic upset or off-specification conditions;  (h) Procedures for minimizing particulate matter carryover;  (i) Procedures for handling ash;  (j) Procedures for monitoring municipal waste combustor unit emissions; and  (k) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.  (5) The owner or operator of an affected facility must establish a training program to review the operating manual according to the schedule specified in subsections (5)(a) and (b) of this rule with each person who has responsibilities affecting the operation of an affected facility including, but not limited to, chief facility operators, shift supervisors, control room operators, ash handlers, maintenance personnel, and crane/load handlers.  (a) Each person specified in section (5) of this rule must undergo initial training no later than the date specified in paragraph (5)(a)(A) or (B) of this rule, whichever is later.  (A) The date before the day the person assumes responsibilities affecting municipal waste combustor unit operation; or  (B) June 19, 1998.  (b) Annually, following the initial review required by subsection (5)(a) of this rule.  (6) The operating manual required by section (4) of this rule must be kept in a readily accessible location for all persons required to undergo training under section (5) of this rule. The operating manual and records of training must be available for inspection by the EPA or the Department upon request. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-025-0980 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 27-1996, f. & cert. ef. 12-11-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
