



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING COUNCIL 
 839-011-0335 
 Apprenticeship and Training Committees — Pre-Apprenticeship Programs
 
 
 (1) Pre-apprenticeship is a program designed to prepare under-represented, disadvantaged, low-skilled, or individuals from Priority Populations to enter and complete a registered apprenticeship program and has a documented partnership with at least one registered apprenticeship committee(s). In order to be used by a registered apprenticeship committee as a direct entry or preferred applicant source, a pre-apprenticeship program must be approved by the Council.  

 (2) Written request for Council approval of a registered pre-apprenticeship program shall include the following information: 

 (a) Identification of the need for the pre-apprenticeship program and the target population served; 

 (b) A statement clearly describing the program and the organization sponsoring and operating the pre-apprenticeship training; 

 (c) A statement of program objectives, outcomes, participant competencies upon completion and benchmarks for success; 

 (d) A statement outlining specific outreach and recruitment activities designed to encourage participation from Priority Populations; 

 (e) A course outline providing an overview of the academic and manipulative portions of the program. Individual course descriptions, class hours and measurement tool(s) used to determine successful completion of classes should be provided in this section; 

 (f) A description and images of the training facilities used for pre-apprenticeship training; 

 (g) A list of the knowledge, skills and abilities required to be an instructor in this program; and 

 (h) A formalized agreement, such as a memorandum of understanding, which documents facilitated entry or articulation with at least one registered apprenticeship program and where possible, enables individuals who have successfully completed the pre-apprenticeship program to enter directly into a registered apprenticeship or earn advanced credit or placement for skills and competencies acquired during pre-apprenticeship training. 

 (3) In order for a pre-apprenticeship program to be approved by the Council, pre-apprenticeship programs must incorporate the following elements: 

 (a) Council-approved training and curriculum based on industry standards; 

 (b) Detailed recruitment strategies focused on outreach to that demonstrate effective strategies for engaging Priority Populations; 

 (c) Provide exposure to diverse apprenticeship opportunities including but not limited to site visits to training programs and opportunities to engage with active apprentices, training administrators, or employers from specific occupations; and  

 (d) Provides hands-on training to individuals in a simulated lab experience or through volunteer opportunities, when possible, neither of which supplants a paid employee but accurately simulates the industry and occupational conditions of the partnering registered apprenticeship sponsor(s) while observing proper supervision and safety protocols. 

 (4) Pre-apprenticeship program sponsors agree to provide the Council with a list of pre-apprenticeship program participants no later than 14 days after participants begin their training program. Program sponsors will provide participants name, address and other identifying information as determined by the Council, on a form designated by the Division. 

 (5) Pre-apprenticeship program sponsors agree to provide the Council with a list of pre-apprenticeship program graduates no later than 30 days from the date of completion on a form designated by the Division. 

 (6) Upon due notice and a reasonable opportunity to show cause, the Council may revoke pre-apprenticeship program for inactivity, inadequate activity, or failure to abide by the rules and policies of the Council.  

 (7) A provider may voluntarily request the cancellation of pre-apprenticeship program by submitting a request to the Director or the Council. A programs' registration will be cancelled by the Council effective on the date that written notice is received by the Director or the Council. A provider may request administrative reactivation of program that was voluntarily cancelled. Request for reactivation must be made within two (2) years of the date that written notice requesting voluntarily cancellation was received by the Director or the Council. 

 (8) All programs are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews of program operations. The Division shall develop a review schedule that identifies when a program will be subject to a review, and the time period being evaluated. 

 (9) Quality assurance reviews will be conducted at intervals not to exceed once every five (5) years. 

 (10) Quality assurance reviews will evaluate program operations, outreach, recruitment, and completion data. 

 (11) All quality assurance reviews will be reported on the Division approved form and will be distributed to the registered pre-apprenticeship program, the Director, and the Council. 

 (12) The Council will review and take action on the quality assurance reports. Action may include, but is not limited to, any of the following: 

 (a) Approve the report. 

 (b) Order a probationary period including more frequent and detailed reviews. 

 (c) Direct corrective action accordingly. 

 (d) Impose sanctions including censure, suspension of registration status, and may include revocation of program approval to operate as a registered pre-apprenticeship program. 

 (e) Any other action as directed by the Council and the Division. 

 (13) The Division will provide technical assistance and performance improvement plans to assist pre-apprenticeship programs. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 660.120 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 660.126, ORS 660.137 & OL Chapter 28, 2022 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 17-2022, amend filed 10/04/2022, effective 11/28/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 7-2022, temporary amend filed 05/31/2022, effective 06/01/2022 through 11/27/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 15-2015, f. & cert. ef. 11-12-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
