



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 LIFE, INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP; ANNUITIES 
 836-051-0330 
 Disclosure 
 
 (1) An accelerated benefit provision shall include “accelerated benefit” or “accelerated death benefit” as part of the descriptive title. The policy, certificate or rider schedule must:  (a) Include one of the following:  (A) Any premium or cost of insurance charge designated for the accelerated benefit;  (B) The interest rate if fixed; or  (C) The method used by the insurer to establish the interest rate in OAR 836-051-0370(3); and  (b) Disclose any administrative expense charge associated with the exercise of the accelerated benefit.  (2) When a life insurance policy or certificate containing an accelerated benefit provision is applied for or delivered, or when an accelerated benefit rider to a life insurance policy is applied for, delivered or added, the insurer shall give or cause to be given a summary of coverage described in this section to the applicant for the policy, certificate or rider. The description must include all of the following:  (a) A brief summary of the accelerated benefit and definitions of the conditions or occurrences triggering payment of the benefit;  (b) An explanation of any effect of the payment of an accelerated benefit on the cash value, accumulation account, death benefit, premium payments, any loans or liens.  (c) Disclosure of the basis for payment, whether a premium, cost of insurance charge, lien assessment or present value calculation;  (d) A statement that receipt of the accelerated benefit may be taxable and that assistance should be sought from a personal tax advisor.  (3) When an accelerated benefit option is exercised, the insurer shall provide the following to the policy holder or certificate holder and any irrevocable beneficiary:  (a) An illustration that:  (A) Numerically demonstrates any effect the payment of the benefit will have on the cash value, accumulation account, death benefit, premium payments, any loans or liens;  (B) Separately illustrates the loaned amount from the accelerated risk amount if the acceleration is based on a lien and the interest accrued on the two portions are not at the same rate; and  (C) Includes a statement that receipt of accelerated benefit payments may adversely affect the recipient’s eligibility for Medicaid or other government benefits or entitlements, that benefits may be taxable and that assistance should be sought from a personal tax advisor.  (b) An amended schedule page showing any new, reduced in-force face amount and the continuing premium requirements to keep the remaining coverage in force. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 743.154 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 743.154 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 12-1993, f. & cert. ef. 11-19-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 8-1992, f. 5-26-92, cert. ef. 6-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
