



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0645 
 Pick (n) Jackpot 
 
 (1) The Pick (n) Jackpot is a type of bet encompassing four or more races, the exact number of races being determined by the number substituted for (n), where, unless otherwise provided, only one, unique ticket holder designates the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races.  (2) Except as provided in § (7) of this regulation, the net pari-mutuel pool for the Pick (n) Jackpot bet that day, together with any carryover from previous pools of the same type of bet, shall be distributed to the holder of the one, unique pari-mutuel ticket which correctly designates the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day.  (3) In the event there is more than one pari-mutuel ticket which correctly designates the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day, the net pari-mutuel pool for the Pick (n) Jackpot bets that day shall be distributed:  (a) 60%, equally, to the holders of pari-mutuel tickets which correctly designate the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day; and  (b) 40% to the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool.  (4) In the event there is no pari-mutuel ticket which correctly designates the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day, the net pari-mutuel pool for the Pick (n) Jackpot bets that day shall be distributed:  (a) 60%, equally, to the holders of pari-mutuel tickets which correctly designate the most official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day; and  (b) 40% to the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool.  (5) If one or more of the races scheduled as part of the Pick (n) Jackpot bet, but less than 50 percent of the races scheduled as part of this bet, are cancelled or declared a "no contest":  (a) The net pari-mutuel pool for the Pick (n) Jackpot bets that day shall be distributed, equally, to the holders of pari-mutuel tickets which correctly designate the most official winners in the races that were run; and  (b) There shall be no carryover from that net pool.  (6) A Pick (n) Jackpot bet shall be refunded if:  (a) For any reason, 50 percent or more of the races scheduled as a part of this bet are cancelled or declared a "no contest"; or  (b) No bet selects any winner in the Pick (n) Jackpot races.  (7) Mandatory Distribution  (a) The Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool may be designated for mandatory distribution on a specified date if:  (A) It is the closing day of the race meet;  (B) The association declares its intention to do so at least 72 hours before the opening of Pick (n) Jackpot wagering for which there is to be a mandatory distribution; or  (C) Upon such other condition the Commission may approve.  (b) If the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool is designated for a mandatory distribution on a specified date and, on that date, there is no unique winning ticket holder under §(2) of this regulation, then the following precedence shall be followed in determining winning wagers for the mandatory distribution of both the net Pick (n) Jackpot pool for that day and the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool:  (A) Equally to holders of pari-mutuel tickets which correctly designate all of the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races;  (B) If there are no pari-mutuel tickets which correctly select all of the official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races, equally to the holders of pari-mutuel tickets which correctly designate the most official winners in each of the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day; and  (C) If there are no pari-mutuel tickets which correctly select even one winner in the Pick (n) Jackpot races for that day, then all Pick (n) Jackpot wagers shall become winners and share 100% of that day’s net Pick (n) Jackpot pool, together with the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool.  (c) If, for any reason, there is not a mandatory distribution as provided in this section, the Pick (n) Jackpot carryover pool shall be:  (A) Deposited in a segregated interest bearing account at a bank located in the State of Oregon that is approved by the Commission;  (B) With accrued interest, added to the net Pick (n) Jackpot pool of the next race meet held by the racing association; and  (C) Distributed as a mandatory distribution on the next occasion Pick (n) Jackpot wagering is offered by the racing association.  (D) In the event the racing association does not hold another race meet the Jackpot carryover pool with accrued interest shall be transferred to the Commission upon the expiration of the association’s license.  (8) If there is a dead heat for win in any of the Pick (n) Jackpot races, each horse in the dead heat shall be deemed to have won the race.  (9) If a betting interest is scratched, excused, or determined by the judges to be a nonstarter:  (a) The actual favorite, as evidenced by the amounts bet in the win pool when betting on the race in which the scratched betting interest was to participate is closed, shall be substituted for that betting interest; or  (b) If the amount bet in the win pool is identical on two or more favorites when betting on the race is closed, the favorite with the lowest program number shall be substituted for the scratched betting interest.  (10) Coupled entries shall be permitted in races designated for Pick (n) Jackpot wagering.  (11) The purchase and acceptance of a Pick (n) Jackpot wager by a bettor shall constitute:  (a) An acknowledgment of the correctness of the ticket; and  (b) An agreement to be bound by the terms and provisions of this regulation.  (12) The sale of a Pick (n) Jackpot wager other than from a pari-mutuel wagering machine, and the re-sale of a Pick (n) Jackpot ticket from one person to another, is prohibited.  (13) Neither a racing association, nor a totalizator company, nor the Commission, nor the State shall be liable to any person for a Pick (n) Jackpot ticket which is not:  (a) A winning wager in accordance with the provisions of this regulation; or  (b) Delivered, for any reason, including:  (A) A mechanical malfunction;  (B) An electrical failure; or  (C) A machine locking.  (14) This regulation shall be displayed prominently in the betting area of the racing association conducting Pick (n) Jackpot wagering. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2015, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
