



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 SECURITIES EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION 
 441-025-0123 
 Disclosures Required Related to the Sale of Membership Shares in Renewable Energy Cooperative Corporations 
 
 Prior to offering a membership shares in a renewable energy cooperative corporation to prospective purchaser, the renewable energy cooperative corporation shall provide, in writing, at no cost to the prospective purchaser, material information about the purpose and governance of the renewable energy cooperative corporation. For purposes of this subsection, “writing” includes printed, electronic and internet media. Disclosures under this section shall include, but are not limited to, the following:  (1) The renewable energy cooperative corporation’s profit and loss statement or an unaudited financial statement, and estimated use of funds or financial projections of the renewable energy cooperative corporation.  (2) Information on the experience and ability of the renewable energy cooperative corporation’s directors, principal officers and key employees to manage a renewable energy cooperative corporation and develop and operate projects to generate electricity from renewable sources.  (3) Discussion of the renewable energy cooperative corporation’s experience with and ability in developing projects to generate electricity from renewable sources.  (4) Information on minimum amount to be raised to initiate a project, consistent with section (1) of this rule, and how money will be returned to members if the renewable energy cooperative corporation doe  not raise sufficient funds to complete a project or if the renewable energy cooperative corporation determines that a project is not feasible after completing a feasibility study.  (5) Information on how the renewable energy cooperative corporation will apportion returns on an investment, if any, as permitted by applicable state and federal law.  (6) Information on risks posed by legislative or regulatory changes affecting the development or operation of a facility to generate electricity from renewable sources, including but not limited to restrictions on the sale of generated electricity, requirements to register securities under applicable state or federal law, changes to tax treatment of facilities that generate electricity from renewable sources, or other regulations that place additional restrictions on a particular type of facility generating electricity from renewable sources.  (7) If applicable, disclosures of any pending or completed, material litigation against the renewable energy cooperative corporation or against the officers, directors, and key employees of the renewable energy cooperative corporation, including the legal basis for the action and, if completed, any judgments or settlements adverse to the renewable energy cooperative corporation or to its officers, directors, and key employees.  (8) Information on how members can participate in the decision-making process of the renewable energy cooperative corporation, consistent with ORS Chapter 62 and the renewable energy cooperative corporation’s articles of incorporation or its bylaws.  (9) Information on how members may inspect the renewable energy cooperative corporation’s books and records and how the renewable energy cooperative corporation will share information with members prior to shareholder meetings.  (10) A plain language explanation of the rights and responsibilities between the renewable energy cooperative corporation and its members under the cooperative contract. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 59.025 & 2014 OL Ch. 69 §2 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 59.025 & 2014 OL Ch. 69 §1 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 6-2014, f. & cert. ef. 10-6-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
