



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 38 VOLUNTARY RECLAMATION PROGRAM 
 632-038-0030 
 Qualifying Reclamation Practices 
 
 A reclamation practice may be considered for an incentive under OAR 632-038-0050 if it meets one or more of the following criteria:  (1) Concurrent or final reclamation that enhances habitat for threatened or endangered species or species of special concern. The establishment of vegetation or habitat shall be identified by Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife or the Oregon Department of Agriculture as beneficial to the species. The vegetation or habitat must meet cover and production targets for the reclamation to qualify.  (2) Visual screening that provides sound and dust attenuation, uses concurrent native reclamation, blends in with the surrounding area and is approved by the department.  (3) Establishment of an on-site or local seed collection, transplant, and/or cutting plan for native vegetation. The plan should include maps and text identifying where and how plant materials shall be collected and a schedule identifying dates for implementing the plan.  (4) Post-mining contour maps at a scale approved by the department and committed to by the operator that show detailed final reclamation contours and include complex slope configurations and a backfilling and compaction plan (if applicable) designed to reduce erosion, enhance revegetation success and blend in with the surrounding area.  (5) Any site that receives Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife district biologist sign-off that the reclamation plan will provide significant enhanced habitat for anadromous fish, or state or federally listed threatened or endangered species.  (6) Any site that receives Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife district biologist or habitat conservation division sign-off that the reclamation plan will substantially improve habitat over the pre-mine condition for avian or terrestrial wildlife or watershed health.  (7) Any site that receives Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife or Oregon Department of Parks and Recreation sign-off that the reclamation plan will substantially improve recreational opportuntities for the public. The opportunities include but are not limited to educational study areas, interpretive centers, hunting and fishing opportunities, or campgrounds in urban, suburban and rural areas.  (8) Any site operating within areas designated as prime farmlands by the Oregon Department of Agriculture that provides for no net loss of prime farmlands.  (9) Reclamation of orphaned sites that meet or exceed current program standards.  (10) Establishment of test plots or similar research oriented projects accepted by the department that are designed to demonstrate effective reclamation techniques that have broad industry utility and likely will lead to higher quality reclamation.  (11) Creation of, or participation in, a voluntary program that enhances fish or wildlife habitat at a site unaffected by mining.  (12) Creation of, or participation in, a voluntary program that provides educational opportunities to primary or secondary school students.  (13) Innovative planning or reclamation coordinated with and endorsed by the local land use planning agency that significantly enhances the site.  (14) Voluntary reclamation of abandoned sites or exempt sites.  (15) Voluntary establishment or maintenance of a stream side riparian vegetation buffer which is wider than required and enhances fish and wildlife habitat or watershed health. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 517.840(1)(E) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.840(1)(E) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 1-1995, f. & cert. ef. 1-5-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
