



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Long Term Care Ombudsman 
 Chapter 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 ACCESS, INVESTIGATION AND REPORTING PROCEDURES 
 114-005-0010 
 Access to Resident 
 
 (1) The Ombudsman or designee may communicate privately with any consenting resident. The Ombudsman and designee shall have access to each resident in private to determine if the resident wishes to communicate with the Ombudsman or designee. The resident’s refusal to communicate with the Ombudsman or designee shall not be relayed by an intermediary. In a multi-bed room, a resident’s refusal to communicate with the Ombudsman or designee shall not keep the Ombudsman or designee from entering or communicating with other residents. If the resident’s room does not permit private consultation to occur between the Ombudsman or designee and resident, or if such consultation infringes upon the rights of roommates, then the facility shall provide an appropriate private place for such meetings. The resident(s) and the Ombudsman or designee may also meet in any common area of the facility unless their presence there would infringe upon the privacy or other rights of other residents.  (2) When encountering a closed door the Ombudsman or designee shall knock and listen for a response. If there is no response, the Ombudsman or designee may open the door and announce his/her presence as entering. If residents are observed in a situation or condition requiring privacy, the Ombudsman or designee shall excuse themselves and close the door upon exiting.  (3) When encountering a closed privacy curtain, the Ombudsman or designee shall request permission from the resident to enter the curtained area. If the resident does not respond, the Ombudsman or designee shall request that staff of the long-term care facility determine if the resident is asleep or receiving treatment or services. If the resident is sleeping or receiving treatment or services, the Ombudsman or designee may not enter the curtained area. If the resident is not sleeping or receiving treatment or services, the Ombudsman or designee may enter the curtained area to determine if the resident wishes to communicate with the Ombudsman or designee. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LTCO 1-1989, f. 1-19-89, cert. ef. 2-1-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
