



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 RECYCLED WATER USE 
 340-055-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply to this division of rules:  (1) “Artificial Groundwater Recharge” means the intentional addition of water diverted from another source to a groundwater reservoir.  (2) "Beneficial Purpose" means a purpose where recycled water is utilized for a resource value, such as nutrient content or moisture, to increase productivity or to conserve other sources of water.  (3) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.  (4) "Disinfected Wastewater" means wastewater that has been treated by a chemical, physical or biological process and meets the criteria if applicable to its classification for use as recycled water.  (5) “Filtered Wastewater” means an oxidized wastewater that meets the criteria defined in OAR 340-055-0012(7)(c).  (6) “Human Consumption” means water used for drinking, personal or oral hygiene, bathing, showering, cooking, or dishwashing.  (7) "Landscape Impoundment" means a body of water used for aesthetic purposes or other function that does not include public contact through activities such as boating, fishing, or body-contact recreation. Landscape impoundments include, but are not limited to, golf course water ponds or non-residential landscape ponds.  (8) "Nonrestricted Recreational Impoundment" means a constructed body of water for which there are no limitations on body-contact water recreation activities. Nonrestricted recreational impoundments include, but are not limited to, recreational lakes, water features accessible to the public, and public fishing ponds.  (9) "NPDES Permit" means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit as defined in OAR chapter 340, division 45.  (10) "Oxidized Wastewater" means a treated wastewater in which the organic matter is stabilized and nonputrescible, and which contains dissolved oxygen.  (11) "Person" means the United States and agencies thereof, any state, any individual, public or private corporation, political subdivision, governmental agency, municipality, copartnership, association, firm, trust estate, or any other legal entity.  (12) “Processed Food Crops” means those crops that undergo thermoprocessing sufficient to kill spores of Clostridium botulinum.  (13) “Recycled Water” means treated effluent from a wastewater treatment system which as a result of treatment is suitable for a direct beneficial purpose. Recycled water includes reclaimed water as defined in ORS 537.131.  (14) "Restricted Recreational Impoundment" means a constructed body of water that is limited to fishing, boating, and other non-body contact water recreation activities.  (15) “Sprinkler Irrigation” means the act of applying water by means of perforated pipes or nozzles operated under pressure so as to form a spray pattern.  (16) “Wastewater” or "Sewage" means the water-carried human or animal waste from residences, buildings, industrial establishments or other places, together with such groundwater infiltration and surface water as may be present. The admixture with sewage of wastes or industrial wastes shall also be considered “wastewater” within the meaning of this division.  (17) “Wastewater Treatment System” or "Sewage Treatment System" means an approved facility or equipment used to alter the quality of wastewater by physical, chemical or biological means or a combination thereof that reduces the tendency of the wastewater to degrade water quality or other environmental conditions.  (18) “Waters of the State” means lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, wells, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals, the Pacific Ocean within the territorial limits of the State of Oregon, and all other bodies of surface or underground waters, natural or artificial, inland or coastal, fresh or salt, public or private (except those private waters which do not combine or effect a junction with natural surface or underground waters) that are located wholly or partially within or bordering the state or within its jurisdiction.  (19) "WPCF Permit" means a Water Pollution Control Facilities permit as defined in OAR chapter 340, division 45.  (20) “Wetlands” means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020, 468.705 & 468.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468B.005, 468B.030 & 468B.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 6-2008, f. & cert. ef. 5-5-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 32-1990, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
