



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Chapter 715 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 Academic Policy 
 715-017-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) For the purposes of this rule, the following definitions apply: 

 (a) "Dual Credit" means secondary and postsecondary credit awarded for a course offered in a high school, which course is sufficiently similar to the college or university course as to enable the enrolled students to be described as taking the course from an Oregon community college or public university as set forth in ORS 340.310. The course must be taught by a high school teacher who has been approved by the college or university and who meets the qualifications to teach the course for the college or university. Dual Credit may include Career and Technical Education courses.  

 (b) “Sponsored Dual Credit” means secondary and postsecondary credit awarded for a course offered in a high school, which course is sufficiently similar to the college or university course as to enable the enrolled students to be described as taking the course from an Oregon community college or public university as set forth in ORS 340.310. The course must be taught by a high school teacher who, in partnership with a sponsoring college or university faculty member, meets the qualifications to teach the course for the college or university. Sponsored Dual Credit may include Career and Technical Education courses. 

 (c) “Assessment Based Learning Credit” means secondary and postsecondary credit awarded for enhanced high school courses or other activities offered at the high school, that focuses on student attainment of specific, college or university defined student learning outcomes, and the opportunity for students to demonstrate, through college or university assessments, that they have obtained those student learning outcomes and thereby are eligible to earn credit for a course from the partnering college or university. The course must be taught by a high school teacher in a secondary-postsecondary partnership that focuses on the above assessment criteria. Assessment based learning credit shall be identified on student transcripts. Assessment Based Learning Credit may include Career and Technical Education courses. 

 (d) “High School Based College Credit Partnerships” are defined as Dual Credit, Sponsored Dual Credit, and Assessment Based Learning Credit partnerships. 

 (2) When developing High School Based College Credit Partnerships with high schools, each college or university shall adhere to the Oregon Standards for Dual Credit, Sponsored Dual Credit, or Assessment Based Learning Credit. In order to comply with these standards, partners must follow the guidelines set forth by the Higher Education Coordinating Commission in the Self-Study and Peer Review Guide available on the Higher Education Coordinating Commission agency website.  

 (3) On or before October 1 of each year, Oregon community colleges and public universities shall submit an annual report to the Higher Education Coordinating Commission of the previous school year's High School Based College Credit Partnership(s) information, including but not limited to, descriptions of: 

 (a) Partnership programs offered; 

 (b) Course sections offered, including type of partnership(s), either Dual Credit, Sponsored Dual Credit, or Assessment-Based Learning Credit; and the related Master Course Reference Numbers (CRN); 

 (c) Student enrollment in the partnership programs; 

 (d) Instructors and instructor qualifications; 

 (e) Costs to students; 

 (f) High School(s) in partnership(s); and 

 (g) Any major partnership changes, such as addition or discontinuation of a partnership. 

 (4) The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall, in accordance with OAR 715-013-0025 or OAR 589-002-0120 as appropriate, fund partnerships solely based on credits earned at Oregon community college or public university as set forth in ORS 340.310 that are either approved or conditionally approved following a review conducted pursuant to this rule. Should, at any time, a community college or public university receive notice that it no longer has approved or conditionally approved status from the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, any credits earned by students through that community college or public university after such notification shall not be included in any relevant funding calculations. Funding shall continue for any credits earned prior to such notification in a manner consistent with the above referenced rules. Should such community college or public university subsequently receive a new approval, or conditional approval, and be reinstated, any credits earned on or after such date of reinstatement notification shall be included in the relevant funding calculations, but no credits earned during the period where such institution lacked such status shall be included. The process to gain or regain a status of approved or conditionally approved can be found in the Higher Education Coordinating Commission Self Study and Peer Review Guide referenced is section 2 of this rule. 

 (a) If determination that a public university is neither approved nor conditionally approved takes place after the true-up process set out in OAR 715-013-0025(7), it shall not impact the funding level for that university due to high school based college credits for the current fiscal year. 

 (b) If determination that a community college is neither approved nor conditionally approved takes place after the deadlines set out in OAR 589-002-0120, it shall not impact the funding level for that community college for the current funding period. 

 (c) This section shall only apply to institutions that have been reviewed under this rule. All student credit hours at institutions that have not yet been reviewed shall be considered approved for funding purposes until such review takes place according to the calendar set forth by the Higher Education Coordinating Commission. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 340.310 & ORS 350.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 340.310, ORS 350.075 & ORS 341.484 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HECC 6-2018, adopt filed 12/28/2018, effective 12/28/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
