



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 MODEL GUIDELINES FOR PROSECUTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMES 
 137-095-0020 
 General Principles for Prosecutors to Consider 
 
 (1)(a) Each of the acts that Senate Bill 912 makes a felony also violates a civil regulatory statute or administrative rule. For most violations, administrative remedies and civil penalties are an appropriate and adequate response. For some violations, however, criminal sanctions are necessary adequately to punish offenders and to deter similar conduct in the future by the violator or others. For still other violations, both civil/administrative and criminal remedies may be appropriate;  (b) These guidelines are intended to assist prosecutors in deciding when to file criminal charges. Prosecutors are to coordinate with local, state and federal regulatory agencies in making those decisions. Frequently, those agencies may be able to provide the prosecutor with the most accurate information about the degree of harm caused by a violation, the violator’s past record of compliance or noncompliance with the law, the appropriate regulatory agency’s past handling of similar violations, and other information pertinent to the decision to file or not to file criminal charges.  (2) For purposes of these guidelines the term “person” includes corporations. The term “prosecutor” includes district attorneys and the Attorney General.  (3)(a) The decision to prosecute or not to prosecute a particular violation of environmental laws is a matter of prosecutorial discretion to be exercised in light of the specific circumstances of each case. The guidelines are intended to promote consistency by making sure that all prosecutors consider the same factors before initiating a prosecution under Senate Bill 912. The intent of the guidelines is to guide the prosecutor’s exercise of discretion, however, not to replace it with a formula;  (b) The statute requires prosecutors to consider and apply the guidelines before initiating a prosecution, but the weight to be given each factor is a matter of prosecutorial discretion to be determined on a case-by-case basis. The prosecutor’s certification in accordance with ORS 468.961(4) establishes conclusively that the prosecutor has applied the guidelines as required by statute and that the criminal charges are being filed in accordance with the guidelines.  (4) The factors listed in ORS 468.961(2) are nonexclusive. In appropriate cases, prosecutors should also consider additional factors, such as:  (a) The probable efficacy and enforceability of civil penalties and remedial orders;  (b) The impact of criminal prosecution on civil regulatory objectives, including prompt remediation of pollution and its effects;  (c) The likelihood that a prosecution will result in a conviction;  (d) The probable sentence if a conviction is obtained; and  (e) The cost of a prosecution, the resources available to the prosecutor, and the severity of the offense compared to other offenses that would not be prosecuted if the prosecutor uses available resources to prosecute an offense under Senate Bill 912. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.961 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.961 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 3-1994, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
