



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 660-001-0230 
 Commission Hearing 
 
 (1) Only the director, or department staff on the director's behalf, the applicant and the affected local government may submit written or oral testimony concerning whether the commission should approve the director's request to file or pursue an appeal, or an intervention in an appeal, of a land use decision, expedited land division or limited land use decision.  (2) Unless the director allows a closer deadline, written testimony must be submitted at least five days before the commission meeting to be provided to commission members in advance of the meeting. Written testimony shall be no more than five pages, including any attachments, and must be received in the Department's Salem office to be "submitted" by the deadline. If the time to submit written testimony under these rules falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state legal holiday, the time to perform the obligation shall be shortened to the next day preceding that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or state legal holiday.  (3) Written and oral testimony and the commission's decision to approve or deny the director's request shall be based on one, or more, of the following factors:  (a) Whether the case will require interpretation of a statewide planning statute, goal, or rule;  (b) Whether a ruling in the case will serve to clarify state planning law;  (c) Whether the case has important enforcement value;  (d) Whether the case concerns a significant natural, cultural, or economic resource;  (e) Whether the case advances the objectives of the agency's Strategic Plan; or  (f) Whether there is a better way to accomplish the objective of the appeal, such as dispute resolution, enforcement proceedings, or technical assistance.  (4) The Chair shall limit the amount of time each speaker may testify, and shall exclude written or oral testimony not relevant to the factors in OAR 660-001-0230(3).  (5) Unless the Chair establishes a different order, oral testimony will be presented in the following sequence:  (a) Director, and/or department staff;  (b) Applicant;  (c) Affected local government; and  (d) Director, and/or department staff.  (6) No rebuttal or response is permitted, although the commissioners may question the director, department staff, the applicant, and the affected local government regarding the factors during the commission's deliberations. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040(1)(c) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.090 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 12-2010, f. & cert. ef. 12-8-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 1-2000, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
