



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0250 
 Physical Education Grants 
 
 (1) The following definitions apply to this rule:  (a) “Number of minutes” means the number of minutes of physical education instruction that is actually provided to all students kindergarten through grade 8 each school week.  (b) “Physical capacity” means the space, indoors and out, available at the school to provide the prescribed number of minutes per week at a class size that promotes effective practices consistent with the outcomes expected of the instructional programs.  (2) Beginning with the 2017–2018 school year:  (a) Kindergarten through grade 5 students shall participate in at least 150 minutes of physical education during each school week throughout the school year; and  (b) Students in grades 6–8 shall participate in at least 225 minutes of physical education during each school week.  (3) The Department of Education shall distribute Physical Education K–8 Expansion grants for activities related to meeting the physical education requirements for instruction of all students in kindergarten through grade 8 described in subsection (2) of this rule.  (4) The grants may be used to:  (a) Hire teachers who are licensed to teach in physical education or who are allowed to teach physical education within the scope of the endorsements on their license; and  (b) Provide in-service training to teachers, not specifically endorsed in physical education, on the instruction of physical education, the academic content standards for physical education and the minimum number of minutes requirement using evidence-based programs.  (5) School districts and public charter schools shall identify in the grant application of the district or school the goals of the district or school for increases in the number minutes per week for the entire school year and shall outline how the district or school plans to use the resources provided from the grant to reach the performance goals.  (6) In evaluating the grant applications, the Department shall consider:  (a) The physical capacity readiness of the district or public charter school to implement the goals set by the district or school for increases in physical education instruction;  (b) The amount of teacher support within the school where the grant will be used;  (c) The activities identified to meet the stated goals;  (d) Consistency with the district’s Continuous Improvement Plan; and  (e) Consistency with the district’s Wellness Plan.  (7) Each district or public charter school shall account for the grant amounts it receives, and shall apply these amounts to pay for activities described in the district or school’s grant application.  (8) Each district or public charter school may use the grant funds only for schools that offer kindergarten through grade 8 or a combination of those grades and only for those purposes described in the approved district or school application.  (9) A district or public charter school may apply for a second year continuation grant. In addition to the criteria listed in subsection (6) of this rule, the department in evaluating an application for a second year continuation grant shall consider whether the district or school has shown continued commitment and fidelity to the district’s or school’s application from the prior year.  (10) To receive a grant under this rule, the district or public charter school shall agree to continue to offer, after the time period of the grant, the required number of minutes of physical education instruction described in subsection (2) of this rule at those schools for which the district or school received the grant funds.  (11) The State Superintendent of Public Instruction shall resolve any issues arising from the administration of the School Improvement Fund grants not specifically addressed by this rule and the Superintendent’s determination shall be final. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.051 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Sec. 10, ch. 839 & OL 2007 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 29-2007, f. & cert. ef. 12-12-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
