



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 66 COMMERCIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION SERVICES PROGRAMS FOR PUBLICLY OWNED UTILITIES IN OREGON 
 330-066-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 For the purpose of these rules, the following terms shall have the following definitions, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:  (1) “Automatic Control Systems” means devices which regulate lighting, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, or other energy loads automatically based on time, temperature, humidity, pressure and/or load limiting measures. Equipment associated with automatic control systems includes, but is not limited to: automatic dampers, wiring, relays, sensors, valves, microprocessors, and other equipment which produces a reduction in energy consumption or demand.  (2) “Commercial Building” means a public building as defined in ORS 456.746 which includes:  (a) Any building which provides facilities or shelter for public assembly, or which is used for educational, office or institutional purposes.  (b) Any inn, hotel, motel, sports arena, supermarket, transportation terminal, retail store, restaurant, or other commercial establishment which provides services or retails merchandise.  (c) Any portion of an industrial plant building used primarily as office space.  (d) Any building owned by the state or political subdivision thereof, including libraries, museums, schools, hospitals, auditoriums, sports arenas and university buildings.  (3) “Commercial Building Customer” means the owner or tenant of a commercial building who is responsible for paying energy costs to a utility and who is the utility customer of record.  (4) “Commercial Energy Audit” means the service provided by a qualified commercial energy auditor, energy specialist, or engineer or architect to a commercial building customer which includes on-site data gathering, energy use analysis, a report to the customer recommending energy conservation measures and an estimate of the cost/benefit of those measures.  (5) “Commercial Energy Auditor” (or “Level I Auditor”) means a person who is qualified through training or experience and who has a general knowledge of heat transfer principles, construction practices, energy-efficient operations and maintenance procedures, boiler and furnace efficiency improvements, infiltration controls, envelope weatherization, HVAC systems, electric control systems, lighting systems, solar insulation and applicable energy conservation measures.  (6) “Commercial Energy Conservation Services Program” means those services specified in Sections 15(1)–(4) and 18(1)–(2), Chapter 708, Oregon Laws 1981, as further defined in these rules.  (7) “Commercial Energy Specialist” (or “Level II Auditor”) means a person who is qualified through training or experience and who has knowledge and abilities of a qualified commercial energy auditor and can perform calculations: Of energy use analysis; of energy efficiencies of HVAC, lighting, plumbing, water, steam, control or electrical systems; and can prepare technical reports of net energy savings for energy conservation measures.  (8) “Director” means the Director of the Oregon Department of Energy.  (9) “Energy Conservation Measure” means a measure primarily designed to improve the efficiency of energy use in a commercial building, “energy conservation measures” as further defined in these rules include, but are not limited to: Improved operation and maintenance measures, energy use analysis procedures, lighting system improvements, heating, ventilating and air conditioning system modifications, furnace and boiler efficiency improvements, automatic control systems including wide dead band thermostats, heat recovery devices, infiltration controls, envelope weatherization, solar water heaters and water heating heat pumps.  (10) “Energy Use Analysis” means an estimate of energy consumed by various systems and components of a commercial building including, but not limited to: the building envelope, lighting, HVAC and water heating system.  (11) “Envelope Weatherization” includes, but is not limited to: insulation for ceilings, walls, floors, ducts or pipes, and storm or thermal windows and doors.  (12) “Furnace and Boiler Efficiency Improvements” include, but are not limited to: Replacement burners, furnaces, or boilers of the same energy fuel type which because of their design reduce energy use due to an increase in combustion efficiency, improved heat generation or reduced heat losses; automatic vent dampers; automatic ignition devices; replacement filters; and cleaning and combustion efficiency adjustments.  (13) “Heat Recovery Devices” means those devices or equipment which recover heat energy from commercial applications by capturing, storing, transferring and using the heat content of liquid or gaseous streams to reduce the need for additional energy resources. Such heat recovery devices include, but are not limited to: Recuperators, heat wheels, regenerators, heat exchangers, and economizers.  (14) “Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) System Modifications” include, but are not limited to: Improving controls for utilization of outside air, adjusting temperature and humidity of supply air, reducing energy use of reheat systems and exhaust hoods, replacement air conditioning systems of the same energy fuel type which reduce the amount of energy use due to an increase in efficiency.  (15) “Infiltration Controls” include, but are not limited to: caulking, weatherstripping, sealants, gaskets, airlocks and revolving doors used to reduce air leaks in a building.  (16) “Lighting System Improvements” means devices and actions which reduce overall indoor or outdoor lighting energy consumption while maintaining satisfactory lighting levels. Lighting system improvements include, but are not limited to: Reducing light levels to acceptable minimum levels; installation of task lighting; local switching, time control and sensing devices; and installation of more efficient lamps.  (17) “Net Energy Savings” means the energy savings, resulting from an energy conservation measure taking into account interactions of other known energy conservation measures being implemented and impacts on all energy sources and systems in the building.  (18) “Operation and Maintenance Measures” means any energy conservation measure or practice which is presumed cost-effective because there is little or no cost associated with the measure such that the simple payback period is less than one year. Operations and maintenance measures include, but are not limited to: temperature setbacks, water flow reductions, reduced use of ancillary systems or reduced energy use when a building is unoccupied, repairing air duct leaks and steam system and furnace or boiler maintenance.  (19) “Simple Payback Period” means the estimated total installed cost of an energy conservation measure divided by the estimated first year dollar savings to the customer resulting from the measure.  (20) “Solar Water Heaters” means water heating devices, either active or passive, designed to heat water with radiant energy from the sun.  (21) “Utility” means a publicly-owned utility which sells electricity to the public.  (22) “Water Heating Heat Pumps” means water heating devices designed to heat water by extracting energy from the surrounding ambient environment, including air, earth, and ground water. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.860 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 10-1982, f. & ef. 11-1-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
