



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 APPROPRIATION AND USE OF WATER FOR HYDROELECTRIC POWER AND STANDARDS FOR HYDROELECTRIC APPLICATIONS 
 690-051-0180 
 Mitigation, No Net Loss 
 
 (1) The following standards on mitigation and no net loss are minimums. They apply to all natural resources in the project vicinity. Resource specific rules may impose stricter standards. In order to approve an application, the Director must determine the natural resources of the state will be maintained or enhanced. In making such a determination, the following standards must be applied:  (a) No activity may be approved that may result in the net loss of natural resources. In determining whether a proposed activity may result in a net loss of natural resources, the department may consider mitigation.  (b) Proposed mitigation must be in the project vicinity and determined as acceptable to the Director or Commission;  (c) All mitigation measures which reasonably can, shall be fully functional when the project begins operation; and  (d) The Collective benefits of all mitigation measures must equal or exceed the collective adverse impacts on natural resources so there is no net loss of natural resources.  (2) In applying the standards in section (1) of this rule, the Commission or Director shall:  (a) Consult with federal, state, and local resource agencies, and the appropriate affected tribe(s); and  (b) Prefer mitigation that benefits the natural resource(s) affected, over mitigation that benefits some other natural resource(s). If mitigation that benefits the affected natural resource(s) is unacceptable or not possible, mitigation that benefits some other natural resource(s) may be considered.  (3) The standards in section (1) of this rule shall apply to the following natural resources: water quality; wildlife; scenic and aesthetic resources; historic, cultural, and archaeologic; agricultural lands; forest resources; wetlands; plant life; fish life; recreation; soils; and natural communities and geologic features.  (4) At the Director's discretion, the standards in section (1) of this rule may apply to natural resource(s) not identified in section (3) of this rule that an applicant or interested party can demonstrate to be a natural resource of value to the public. Anyone making a showing of value for a natural resource not listed in section (3) of this rule shall also propose, for consideration, a standard for the protection of the natural resource. If agreed by the Director and upon acceptable showing of public value, an applicant may propose enhancement or other mitigation of an unlisted natural resource to offset impacts on natural resources listed in section (3) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.025, 536.027, 537 & 543 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 8-2015, f. 12-18-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1993, f. & cert. ef. 5-19-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 14-1986, f. & ef. 10-13-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
