



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 State Library 
 Chapter 543 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 GOVERNMENT INFORMATION SERVICES 
 543-020-0080 
 Database and Subscriptions Licenses 
 
 (1) The approval process for database and subscriptions licenses applies to all state agencies except the State of Oregon Law Library, a county law library and the State Archives or to legal databases, information resources, subscription licenses or other law-related services or resources.  (2) Intent and Purpose  (a) The intent of establishing a review and approval process for reference databases and subscriptions is to build awareness of state agency subscriptions statewide, reduce duplication and create cost efficiencies through cooperative purchasing of library resources, and reduce subscription costs for state agencies.  (b) The purpose of these rules is to outline procedures for the state agency to obtain approval from the State Library for the purchase of reference databases and subscription licenses, and to establish the review, approval, and appeal process.  (3) Process:  (a) The head of each agency, or a designee, shall be the subscriptions liaison for the agency. Each agency shall notify the State Librarian of the name of the agency’s subscriptions liaison. The subscriptions liaison is responsible for carrying out the agency’s obligations under this section. The subscriptions liaison serves in a consultative and advisory role in cooperation with the State Library.  (b) Prior to purchasing reference-related databases or physical and digital subscriptions, the subscriptions liaison shall submit title, publisher, vendor and other pertinent subscription information to the State Library requesting approval. The information must be submitted at least sixty (60) days prior to the agency’s desired subscription start date. If the materials could meet the definitions in 543-020-0055(7)(d) and (e) the request will be reviewed by the Reference Coordinating Council to determine the disposition of the request.  (c) Prior to renewing reference-related databases or physical and digital subscriptions, the subscriptions liaison shall notify the State Library of its desire to renew an existing subscription at least sixty (60) days prior to the vendor’s purchase deadline.  (d) In the event there is a situation requiring expedited approval, the subscriptions liaison shall notify the State Library of its urgency and provide subscription information as early as possible. Rush requests shall receive highest priority in the approval process.  (e) In evaluating each request for approval, the State Library may apply the following criteria:  (A) The State Library has a subscription to the database and provides unrestricted access to all state agency staff.  (B) The State Library has coordinated a cooperative purchase for the database or print/digital subscription for a group of state agencies.  (C) There is broad interest across state government in the database or physical/digital subscription and it meets the State Library collection development policy.  (D) There is interest in the database or physical/digital subscription among a select group of state agencies  (E) No other state agency subscribes to the database or physical/digital subscription; however there is potential high demand for the subscription.  (F) No other state agency subscribes to the database or physical/digital subscription, it is a specialized resource and it would have minimal use by other state agencies.  (f) The State Library will send written notification of its decision to approve or deny the request to purchase the subscription within thirty (30) days of receipt of request.  (g) An agency may file an appeal of the decision directly to the State Librarian if it is not satisfied with the decision. The subscriptions liaison must file any appeal within ten (10) business days from the date of the notice 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 357.115(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 357.115(1)(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSL 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-13-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSL 1-2016(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 1-11-16 thru 7-6-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
