



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 71 ONSHORE MINERALS PROSPECTING AND LEASING RULES 
 141-071-0530 
 Application and Supplement Consideration 
 
 (1) Upon receipt of a lease application, the Division shall cause notice of the application to be sent to affected state agencies, including the agency having jurisdiction over the surface rights, the Department of Environmental Quality, Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, State Fish and Wildlife Commission, Land Conservation and Development Commission, Department of Energy, State Historic Preservation Office, and such other agencies or persons as the Division deems appropriate.  (2) Upon receipt of the environmental impact report, the Division shall send copies to the same affected state agencies.  (3) Each agency shall be requested to respond within 60 days of its receipt of the environmental impact report making a recommendation as to whether the lease should be granted to the applicant. Agencies may also recommend conditions to be contained in the lease to satisfy requirements within their respective statutory jurisdictions. Applicants will be advised of conditions recommended by state agencies and, where advisable, a conference between agencies and applicants will be held.  (4) The Division shall make such investigations as it considers necessary and shall notify the public of its opportunity to request a hearing or hearings upon the granting of the application, together with the timetable and procedures to be followed. The Division will provide written notice to any person or organization which has requested in writing of the Division that such notices be provided to it directly.  (5) If the Division approves the application, and the state agency controlling the surface rights concurs, the application will be placed before the State Land Board for its final approval, when required by OAR 141-071-0410. Upon approval by the State Land Board, if required, the Division shall promptly forward to the applicant a mining lease incorporating all conditions which are deemed necessary by the Director, taking into consideration the recommendations of other affected agencies, the protection of natural resources, public health, and safety.  (6) The Division or Board may refuse to grant a lease for state-owned minerals because of considerations of environmental quality, inadequate cost-benefit ratio, or other public interest. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273.780 - 273.790 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LB 44, f. & ef. 8-16-77 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
