



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 REQUIREMENTS AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR COMPLYING WITH STATEWIDE GOAL 5 
 660-016-0000 
 Inventory Goal 5 Resources 
 
 (1) The inventory process for Statewide Planning Goal 5 begins with the collection of available data from as many sources as possible including experts in the field, local citizens and landowners. The local government then analyzes and refines the data and determines whether there is sufficient information on the location, quality and quantity of each resource site to properly complete the Goal 5 process. This analysis also includes whether a particular natural area is “ecologically and scientifically significant,” or an open space area is “needed,” or a scenic area is “outstanding,” as outlined in the Goal. Based on the evidence and local government’s analysis of those data, the local government then determines which resource sites are of significance and includes those sites on the final plan inventory.  (2) A “valid” inventory of a Goal 5 resource under subsection (5)(c) of this rule must include a determination of the location, quality, and quantity of each of the resource sites. Some Goal 5 resources (e.g., natural areas, historic sites, mineral and aggregate sites, scenic waterways) are more site-specific than others (e.g., groundwater, energy sources). For site-specific resources, determination of location must include a description or map of the boundaries of the resource site and of the impact area to be affected, if different. For non-site-specific resources, determination must be as specific as possible.  (3) The determination of quality requires some consideration of the resource site’s relative value, as compared to other examples of the same resource in at least the jurisdiction itself. A determination of quantity requires consideration of the relative abundance of the resource (of any given quality). The level of detail that is provided will depend on how much information is available or “obtainable.”  (4) The inventory completed at the local level, including options in subsections (5)(a), (b), and (c) of this rule, will be adequate for Goal compliance unless it can be shown to be based on inaccurate data, or does not adequately address location, quality or quantity. The issue of adequacy may be raised by the Department or objectors, but final determination is made by the Commission or the Land Use Board of Appeals as provided by law.  (5) Based on data collected, analyzed and refined by the local government, as outlined above, a jurisdiction has three basic options:  (a) Do Not Include on Inventory: Based on information that is available on location, quality and quantity, the local government might deter mine that a particular resource site is not important enough to warrant inclusion on the plan inventory, or is not required to be included in the inventory based on the specific Goal standards. No further action need be taken with regard to these sites. The local government is not required to justify in its comprehensive plan a decision not to include a particular site in the plan inventory unless challenged by the Department, objectors or the Commission based upon contradictory information;  (b) Delay Goal 5 Process: When some information is available, indicating the possible existence of a resource site, but that information is not adequate to identify with particularity the location, quality and quantity of the resource site, the local government should only include the site on the comprehensive plan inventory as a special category. The local government must express its intent relative to the resource site through a plan policy to address that resource site and proceed through the Goal 5 process in the future. The plan should include a time-frame for this review. Special implementing measures are not appropriate or required for Goal 5 compliance purposes until adequate information is available to enable further review and adoption of such measures. The statement in the plan commits the local government to address the resource site through the Goal 5 process in the post-acknowledgment period. Such future actions could require a plan amendment;  (c) Include on Plan Inventory: When information is available on location, quality and quantity, and the local government has determined a site to be significant or important as a result of the data collection and analysis process, the local government must include the site on its plan inventory and indicate the location, quality and quantity of the resource site (see above). Items included on this inventory must proceed through the remainder of the Goal 5 process. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 3-1990, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCD 7-1981, f. & ef. 6-29-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCD 5-1981(Temp), f. & ef. 5-8-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
