



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Examiners for Engineering and Land Surveying 
 Chapter 820 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSING 
 820-010-3000 
 Qualifications for Registration as a Professional Photogrammetrist
 
 
 In order to qualify for registration as a Professional Photogrammetrist in Oregon, an applicant for registration must provide all of the following: 

 (1) Evidence satisfactory to the Board of passing or having previously passed the Fundamentals of Land Surveying examination administered by NCEES. 

 (2) Evidence satisfactory to the Board of passing or having previously passed a Board approved examination in practical photogrammetric mapping problems written and scored by the Colonial States Boards of Surveyor Registration (CSBSR). Candidates may sit for the examination in Oregon, but must contact the Board to do so, as well as for examination costs, times, dates, and details. For reinstatement applicants, this examination must have been passed by the applicant within five years prior to application for reinstatement. 

 (3) Evidence satisfactory to the Board of having obtained a Board approved combination of education and experience. Experience as a full-time assistant professor or professor, teaching a Board approved photogrammetric, geomatics, or geospatial sciences curriculum may, at the Board’s discretion, qualify as experience in photogrammetric work. 

 (4) Application , which must include all of the following: 

 (a) Proof of successful passage of the NCEES Fundamentals of Land Surveying Examination. For Fundamentals of Land Surveying examinations passed before October 2010, if the Applicant did not pass the examination in Oregon, official verification must be provided by the NCEES licensing jurisdiction. For Fundamentals of Land Surveying examinations passed in October 2010 or later, the Board will verify passage with NCEES. 

 NOTE: The uniform, national examinations are written and scored by the NCEES and administered by NCEES Exam Administration Services. Please consult NCEES for examination dates, times, locations, cost, and details 

 (b) Official verification of successful passage of a Board approved examination in practical photogrammetric mapping problems written and scored by the Colonial States Boards of Surveyor Registration (CSBSR). 

 NOTE: For the examination times, places costs and details, please contact the OSBEELS or, if sitting for the examination outside of Oregon, the state in which you wish to sit for the examination 

 (c) Official transcripts of degree or coursework credentials. Official transcripts must show the degree and date awarded. For degrees or coursework not from an ABET accredited program, NCEES evaluation of the degree or coursework credentials. The cost of any NCEES Credentials Evaluation must be borne by the Applicant. 

 (d) A completed Experience Details form describing active practice in photogrammetric mapping work, as defined in OAR 820-005-0066. 

 (e) Five references from individuals with knowledge of the Applicant’s technician work or photogrammetric mapping work: 

 (A) All five references must attest to the Applicant’s ability, professional experience, or both. All five references must complete the Reference Details form provided by the Board. 

 (B) All of the Applicant’s qualifying photogrammetric mapping work must be verified by at least one reference with direct supervision of that work. 

 (C) At least three of the five references must hold active Professional Photogrammetrist registration, Professional Land Surveyor registration, or Professional Engineer registration in jurisdiction with NCEES membership. 

 (D) The Board may, for good cause and upon written application, reduce the number of references required for an Applicant. 

 (f) For Applicants holding an NCEES Record, in lieu of providing the items listed under (a) to (e) of this subsection, the Applicant may release the Applicant’s NCEES Record, if any, to the Board. 

 NOTE: See http://ncees.org/records/ 

 (g) Any and all professional disciplinary records of the Applicant, including but not limited to final orders, letters of reprimand, stipulations, and settlement agreements. 

 (h) The required application fees. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.310 & 672.255 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 672.002 - 672.325 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 1-2024, amend filed 03/12/2024, effective 03/12/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 3-2018, amend filed 05/10/2018, effective 05/10/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 5-12-17 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 8-2015, f. & cert. ef. 11-13-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BEELS 5-2015(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 8-19-15 thru 2-12-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
