



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-0456 
 Criteria 
 
 (1) The Department of Education shall establish a request for application solicitation and approval process for the consortia of Teacher Standards and Practices Commission approved teacher education institutions responsible for developing and maintaining coursework.  (2) The Department of Education may only award grants for developing and maintaining coursework to eligible entities that meet the following minimum criteria:  (a) A commitment to participate in the consortia established by the CTE Teacher Preparation Program;  (b) A commitment to work with other members of the consortia to develop a shared curriculum that fulfills licensure requirements established by the Oregon Teacher Standards and Practice Commission for career and technical education teachers;  (c) A demonstrated record of success educating teachers; and  (d) Official program recognition and accreditation through the Teachers Standards and Practices Commission.  (3) The Department of Education shall establish a request for proposal solicitation and approval process for the network of providers of professional development.  (4) The Department of Education may only award grants for professional development to eligible entities that have a demonstrated record of success in, or a clearly established plan for, providing professional development, recruitment, and retention of both pre-service and in-service CTE teachers designed around Oregon Career Learning Areas, the Common Career Technical Core, or the National College and Career Readiness Standards.  (5) In allocating funds, the Department of Education may take into consideration the evaluation of the grant application and geographic location to ensure geographic diversity within the recipients of grant program funds throughout the state. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2015 OL Ch. 763 & Sec. 1 (Enrolled HB 3072) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2015 OL Ch. 763 & Sec. 1 (Enrolled HB 3072) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 12-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-5-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
