



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 SUBSTITUTE CARE 
 413-070-0470 
 Substitute Caregiver Responsibilities 
 
 (1) The substitute caregiver must:  (a) Notify the Department within one business day after receiving a new prescription or knowledge of a new prescription for psychotropic medication for a child or young adult; and  (b) Obtain authorization from the Department prior to filling a prescription for and administering a new psychotropic medication.  (2) The substitute caregiver must provide written or verbal notification to the caseworker or caseworker's supervisor within one business day when a licensed medical professional prescribes a change in dosage, suspension, or discontinuation of the current psychotropic medication.  (3) The substitute caregiver must keep current medical and mental health care records and medication logs of a child or young adult in the care or custody of the Department. The records must include all of the following:  (a) Medical and mental health appointments for the child or young adult in substitute care.  (b) Medical and mental health appointment follow-up reports provided to the substitute caregiver.  (c) Any record of any immunization obtained while in the care of the substitute caregiver.  (d) A record of all prescribed medications administered to the child or young adult in substitute care.  (4) A substitute caregiver certified by the Department must keep a current medication log on a form approved by the Department. A provider must keep a current medication log either on the form approved by the Department or on a form provided by the private child-caring agency. The medication log record must include all medications administered to the child or young adult in substitute care and must include all of the following:  (a) The name of the child or young adult in substitute care.  (b) The brand or generic name of the medication, including the prescribed dosage and prescribed dosage administration schedule.  (c) Times and dates of administration or monitored self-administration of the medication.  (d) The name or initials of the substitute caregiver administering the medication or monitoring the self-administration.  (5) The substitute caregiver must provide completed medication logs and any medication records obtained during medical visits and records of appointments to the Department at the end of each month. This must include logs of all medication administered to the child or young adult at school or in settings other than the home of the substitute caregiver.  (6) The substitute caregiver must keep all psychotropic medications properly stored and must:  (a) Ensure the psychotropic medication specifies the dosage and prescribed dosage administration schedule of the licensed medical professional for the psychotropic medication; and  (b) Ensure the psychotropic medication is stored in a safe manner and as prescribed. Psychotropic medication requiring refrigeration must be safely stored under refrigeration.  (7) The substitute caregiver may not discontinue, change, or otherwise alter the prescribed administration of a psychotropic medication for a child or young adult in substitute care without direction from the licensed medical professional.  (8) The substitute caregiver may not use alternative medications intended to alter or affect mood or behavior, such as herbal supplements, nutritional supplements, or homeopathic remedies, without direction and supervision of a licensed medical professional, and must notify the Department when any such alternative medication is directed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 & 418.517 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 109.640, 109.675, 418.005 & 418.517 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 3-2015, f. & cert. ef. 1-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 7-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 8-2007, f. & cert. ef. 5-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SCF 6-1995, f. 12-22-95, cert. ef. 12-29-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SCF 5-1995, f. & cert. ef. 9-15-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
