



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0660 
 Racing Roulette Win Pool Rules 
 
 (1) Racing Roulette is a form of pari-mutuel wagering and is a separate win pool from the standard win pool in every race in which it is offered. Racing Roulette is a bet to win on every participant in the selected group.  (2) In each race, the association shall designate each runner as a member of one of three groups, Betting Interest #1 also known as Red, Betting Interest #2 also known as Black, or Betting Interest #3 also known as Green.  (3) In each race in which Racing Roulette is offered, there shall be a win payoff for bettors selecting the group that contains the winning betting interest.  (4) The identity of the members of Red, Black, and Green shall be disseminated in the track program (when possible), by the track announcer, on television monitors and, where applicable, internet wagering websites.  (5) The minimum bet for Racing Roulette is the same as the minimum bet to win.  (6) The payout for a winning Racing Roulette wager shall be the same regardless of which member of the group is the race winner. The probable and actual payoff for a winning bet on Red, Black, or Green shall be displayed in a similar manner as the probable and actual payout for a standard win bet.  (7) In the event that all of the members of any group are scratched or declared non-starters, Racing Roulette betting shall cease and all wagers shall be refunded.  (8) In the event of a dead heat to win involving two or more members of the same group, the Racing Roulette win payout shall be calculated in the same manner as if there was one winner of the race and such winner was a member of such group. In the event of a dead heat to win involving one or more members of different groups, the Racing Roulette win payout shall be determined in the same manner as the calculation of the win payoff, i.e. by dividing the net pool.  (9) Should circumstances occur which are not addressed by these rules, questions arising thereby shall be resolved in accordance with general pari-mutuel practice. Decisions regarding Racing Roulette made by the Stewards shall be final. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
