



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 OIL AND GAS RULES 
 632-010-0194 
 Water Injection and Water Flooding of Oil and Gas Properties 
 
 (1) Application and Approval: The permittee of a well may inject water under pressure into the formation containing oil or gas for the purpose of obtaining oil or gas from the reservoir, upon application to and approval by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. No water injection or water flooding program may be instituted until it has been authorized by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.  (2) Casing and Cement: Wells used for the injection of water into the producing formation or repressuring wells must be cased with sound casing so as not to permit leakage, and the casing must be cemented in a manner such that damage will not be caused to oil, gas, or freshwater resources.  (3) Application, Contents, Notice, Objection, Hearing, and Approval:  (a) An application for use of water injection must be verified and filed with the department and include:  (A) The location of the injection well;  (B) The location of all oil and gas wells, including any wells and dry holes, and the names of mineral rights owners within one-half mile of the injection well;  (C) The formations from which wells are producing or have produced;  (D) The name, description, and depth of the formations to be injected;  (E) The elevations of the top of the oil- or gas-bearing formation in the injection well and the wells producing from the same formation within one-half mile radius of the injection well;  (F) The log of the injection well or similar available information;  (G) Description of the injection well casing;  (H) Description of the liquid, stating the kind, where obtained, and the estimated amounts to be injected daily;  (I) The names and addresses of the permittees; and  (J) Other information as the department may require to ascertain whether the injection or flooding may be safely and legally made.  (b) Applications may be made to include the use of more than one injection well on the same spacing unit, or on more than one spacing unit;  (c) Applications must be executed by all permittees who are to participate in the proposed water injection or water flooding plan.  (4) Notice of Commencement and Discontinuance of Water Injection or Water Flooding Operations:  (a) Immediately upon the commencement of water injection or water flooding operations, the applicant must notify the department;  (b) Within 10 days after the discontinuance of water injection or water flooding operations, the permittee must notify the department of the date of discontinuance and the reasons for the discontinuance; and  (c) Before any injection well is decommissioned, the permittee must submit an application to the department, per OAR 632-010-0198.  (5) Records. The permittee must keep the following records and make them available to the department:  (a) The amount of water injected into the injection wells;  (b) The total amount of water produced; and  (c) The total amount of oil or gas produced from the area flooded. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 520 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 520.095 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DGMI 1-2013, f. & cert. ef 3-21-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 6-1990, f. & cert. ef. 12-5-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 4-1985, f. & ef. 11-20-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 1-1982, f. & ef. 6-25-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 1, f. 1-27-54 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
