



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 700 LICENSING STANDARDS FOR OUTPATIENT RENAL DIALYSIS FACILITIES 
 333-700-0080 
 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement 
 
 (1) The facility shall establish a program to monitor the quality of care given to patients. This program shall document that the facility staff evaluate the provision of care, determine treatment goals, identify opportunities for improvement, develop and implement improvement plans, and evaluate implementation until resolution of a problem is achieved.  (2) The medical director of the facility is responsible for quality monitoring and improvement activities. The Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement (QAPI) team shall consist of a multi-disciplinary team to include representatives of medical staff, administration, nursing, technical, social work and dietary. Meetings of the QAPI team shall be held at least quarterly or more often if needed to resolve a particular issue.  (3) QAPI mechanisms shall include:  (a) An ongoing review of key elements of care using comparative and trend data to include aggregate patient data and to promote the reduction of risks;  (b) Identification of areas where performance measures or outcome data indicate a need for improvement;  (c) Establishment of QAPI committees to identify any variations from desired outcomes; create and implement improvement plans; evaluate the effectiveness of the improvement plan; and  (d) Establishment and monitoring of key quality indicators. For each indicator, the facility shall establish a performance level consistent with current professional knowledge. At a minimum, the following indicators shall be monitored on an ongoing basis:  (A) Water Quality including chemical and bacteriological indicators;  (B) Equipment maintenance and repair;  (C) Reprocessing of dialyzers including performance measures, labeling, disinfection, and pyrogenic reactions;  (D) Infection control including monitoring of staff and patient infections;  (E) Clinical outcomes including laboratory values, dialysis adequacy, hospitalizations, vascular access complications;  (F) Incidents and rate of adverse occurrences (clinical variances) including accidents, medication errors, treatment errors, infiltrations, needle sticks, adverse drug reactions, and other occurrences affecting patients, visitors, or staff;  (G) Mortality including review of each patient death and monitoring of mortality rates and trends;  (H) Complaints and suggestions including those from patients, family and staff; and  (I) Other indicators as required by federal regulations and Network requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441.015 & 441.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 4-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 7-2003, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
