



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION (CTE) TEACHING LICENSES 
 584-230-0070 
 CTE Professional Development Plan 
 
 (1) A CTE Professional Development Plan is required component of the ODE CTE application for the Restricted CTE Teaching License or a License for Conditional Assignment for CTE endorsement.  (2) The CTE Professional Development Plan must include:  (a) Academic requirements as provided in subsection (3);  (b) Business and Industry work requirements as provided in OAR 584-230-0080;  (c) Signatures from the ODE-approved sponsor and the applicant. The sponsor must maintain a copy of the CTE professional development plan;  (d) Assurances that the ODE-approved sponsor has assigned an appropriately licensed administrator to monitor the progress and timely completion of the signed CTE professional development plan, if required. The administrator must be identified in the application materials; and  (e) Assurances that the ODE-approved sponsor has assigned an appropriately trained mentor consistent with OAR 584-230-0010 Definitions, if required. The mentor must be identified in the application materials.  (3) For applicants who have not previously completed a teacher preparation program, the CTE professional development plan must require the applicant to complete one of the following:  (a) CTE Program: Complete a Commission-approved CTE preparation program. Commission-approved programs may include school districts, Education Service Districts, community colleges, technical colleges or institutions of higher education. All programs must meet the same Commission-approved CTE program standards; or  (b) CTE Coursework: Complete a minimum of eighteen (18) quarter hours or twelve (12) semester credit hours of CTE teacher preparation from a Commission-approved educator preparation program, accredited technical college or accredited community college. The credit hours must include:  (A) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours of Introduction to Career and Technical Education in Oregon;  (B) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours of Classroom Management;  (C) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours of Culturally Responsive Practices, including responsiveness to the instructional needs of:  (i) Students from under-represented communities;  (ii) Students from all socio-economic situations; and  (iii) Students that require special education services.  (D) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours in Human Development for adolescent and older children;  (E) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours in Curriculum Design, Instructional Strategies and Assessment; and  (F) Three (3) quarter hours or two (2) semester hours in one of the following:  (i) Instructional methodology in how to teach mathematics to secondary learners, which may include coursework focused on how to teach mathematics in the CTE context; or  (ii) Instructional methodology in how to teach reading, or writing and literacy to secondary learners.  (4) The CTE Professional Development Plan may include additional education requirements if the IAC or ODE determines the additional education is necessary.  (5) The CTE Professional Development Plans may be modified if ODE approves of the modification in writing. The modified CTE plan, with verified ODE approval, must be submitted to TSPC with prior to the expiration of the Restricted CTE Teaching License. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430, 342.455 –342.496 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 4-2017, f. 6-27-17, cert. ef. 7-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
