



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Public Employees Retirement System 
 Chapter 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 76 OPSRP DISABILITY BENEFIT 
 459-076-0010 
 Criteria for Granting and Denying Disability Benefits
 
 
 (1) PERS shall determine eligibility for disability benefits based on an applicant’s capacity and qualifications as set forth below. 

 (2) Medical documentation is required by PERS. Each disability benefit applicant shall supply any treating or consulting physician’s examination report or other medical information requested by PERS. PERS may base its determination on either a treating or consulting physician’s medical examination report or have the applicant examined by one or more physicians selected by PERS, or both. 

 (3) All claims of a disability must be supported by at least one physician’s report, resulting from a medical examination, documenting how the injury or disease incapacitates the member. A physician assistant’s examination report will be accepted as a physician’s report when signed by a supervising physician who has examined the member. 

 (4) In addition, a disability benefit applicant shall be required to furnish the following: 

 (a) For claims of mental or emotional disorder, at least one report of a treating or consulting psychiatrist or doctor of psychology; 

 (b) For claims of orthopedic injury or disease, at least one report of a treating or consulting orthopedic or physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist; 

 (c) For claims of neurological or neurosurgical injury or disease, at least one report of a treating or consulting neurologist or neurosurgeon; 

 (d) For claims of fibromyalgia, at least one documented diagnosis by a rheumatologist, and at least one report of a treating or consulting rheumatologist or physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist; and 

 (e) Any other specialized physician’s report PERS deems necessary. 

 (5) To demonstrate that the member who was employed as other than a police officer or firefighter is unable to perform any work for which qualified or the member who was employed as a police officer or firefighter as defined in ORS 238A.005 is unable to perform work the member performed at the time the member became disabled , as defined in OAR 459-076-0001, the applicant shall document how the injury or disease incapacitates the applicant. The standard is subjective (that is, whether the applicant is actually incapacitated) not objective (that is, whether a "normal" member would have been incapacitated by the same events). 

 (a)  For members who were employed as other than a police officer or firefighter, in determining what work for which a member is qualified, the following factors shall be considered: 

 (A) Previous employment experience; 

 (B) Formal education; 

 (C) Formal training; 

 (D) Transferable skills; 

 (E) Age; and 

 (F) Physical or mental impairment. 

 (b) For members who were employed as a police officer or firefighter, in determining if the member is able to perform the work the member performed at the time they became disabled, the following factors shall be considered: 

 (A) The position description for the job the member held at the time of their injury or illness; 

 (B) Physical or mental impairment; 

 (C) Any other relevant personnel documentation. 

 (c) In determining what work for which a member is qualified or to establish if a member can continue to perform work the member performed at the time the member became disabled, PERS may request, at PERS’ expense, a vocational evaluation be done by a vocational consultant who is fully certified as set forth in OAR 459-076-0001(2). 

 (d) For members who were employed as other than a police officer or firefighter, the inability of the applicant to perform the duties of their last job, in itself, does not satisfy the “unable to perform any work for which qualified” criterion. 

 (e) An applicant’s receipt of weekly unemployment insurance benefits after the date of disability shall create a rebuttable presumption that the member was able, available, and willing to perform any work for which qualified during the week for which the applicant received the benefits. 

 (6) When there is a dispute among medical experts, more weight will be given to those medical opinions that are both well-reasoned and based on complete information. 

 (7) The Board may deny any application or discontinue any disability benefit if an applicant: 

 (a) Fails to submit to an independent medical exam, physical capacity evaluation, or vocational evaluation; or 

 (b) Fails to submit to any medical examination or supply a completed application or review form. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 238A.450 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 238A.235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 17-2025, amend filed 12/05/2025, effective 12/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 8-2021, amend filed 12/03/2021, effective 12/03/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 8-2014, f. & cert. ef. 7-25-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 16-2005, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
