



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS 
 918-500-0530 
 Alternate Uses 
 
 Manufactured dwellings are constructed, approved, and intended for use as detached single-family dwellings. However, manufactured dwellings may be used as other than detached single-family dwellings provided the manufactured dwelling remains in compliance with the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), is installed according to the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code prior to occupancy, and complies with applicable requirements of these rules.  (1) Manufactured dwellings may be used as temporary sales offices provided the manufactured dwelling:  (a) Does not have any design, construction, transportation, fire and life safety, plumbing, mechanical, or electrical alterations made to it to accommodate the temporary sales office use;  (b) Has a 36 inch wide by 80 inch high exit door;  (c) Is continuously offered for sale to the public as a manufactured dwelling during the office use;  (d) Has a certificate of occupancy issued by the municipality prior to occupancy; and  (e) Is accessible to employees, the public, and persons with disabilities prior to use in accordance with the Oregon Structural Specialty Code in all the following areas:  (A) All rooms and all floor levels within the manufactured dwelling that will be used for office use, such as bedrooms, dens, living rooms, family rooms, foyers, entry ways, and hallways must be accessible.  (B) Bathrooms must contain a water closet and a lavatory and must be made accessible. Only one bathroom is required to be accessible if the bathroom is properly marked as a unisex facility and provided with a privacy lock. Bathtubs and showers are not required to be accessible if they are not part of the regular office function.  (C) Areas that are not a part of the regular office function, such as the kitchen, utility room, and unused cabinets or clothes closets are not required to be accessible.  (D) One main entry door is required to be accessible. Secondary exterior doors are not required to be accessible. Interior doors that are part of the regular office function must be accessible.  (E) Appropriate signage must be provided in all accessible areas, both inside and outside of the office.  (F) When provided, drinking fountains, public telephones, furnishings, and similar equipment must be accessible.  (G) Accessibility from the public way up to the main entry door must be provided;  (H) An accessible parking area must be provided near the main entry.  (2) A portion of a manufactured dwelling may be used for an in-home business provided:  (a) The business portion of the manufactured dwelling is restricted to one room only, not including a bathroom, entry, or foyer;  (b) The remainder of the manufactured dwelling is used as a single-family dwelling by the same person using it as a business;  (c) The manufactured dwelling has one 36 inch wide by 80 inch high door exiting to the exterior from the business portion of the manufactured dwelling;  (d) The type of business and location is approved by the municipality prior to installation or occupancy;  (e) The business portion of the manufactured dwelling is accessible to persons with disabilities when the business is open to the public or has employees other than family members using the business space; and  (f) The manufactured dwelling has a certificate of occupancy issued by the municipality prior to occupancy.  (3) Manufactured dwellings may be used for farm worker housing provided the manufactured dwelling:  (a) Is located in a labor camp as defined in OAR chapter 437 and consists of:  (A) Not more than six manufactured dwellings on a lot, parcel, or aggregation of lots or parcels; or  (B) Four or more manufactured dwellings in a manufactured dwelling park, a mobile home park, a temporary manufactured dwelling park, or a combination park.  (b) Is not occupied by more than ten persons not related by blood or marriage;  (c) Has a maximum of five bedrooms;  (d) Is accessible to persons with disabilities, if an affected building;  (e) Conforms to the Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Code, OAR chapter 437; and  (f) Has a certificate of occupancy issued by the municipality prior to occupancy.  (4) Up to six manufactured dwellings may be placed on a single lot, parcel, or aggregation of lots or parcels and adjoined to give the appearance and economy of multi-family housing provided:  (a) Plans showing the adjoined structures are submitted to and approved by the division to verify compliance with the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), the federal Manufactured Home Procedural Regulations (24 CFR 3282), the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code, and these rules;  (b) Land use approval has been granted by the municipality;  (c) Division-approved plans are submitted to and approved by the municipality prior to installation permits being issued;  (d) Each manufactured dwelling is used only as a single-family dwelling;  (e) Fire separation is provided at the wall separating each manufactured dwelling according to the Oregon Residential Specialty Code;  (f) Adjoined structures located on the property have fire-resistive protection of exterior walls and openings according to the Oregon Structural Specialty Code, Sections 602 and 704.8;  (g) Each manufactured dwelling is structurally independent of an adjacent manufactured dwelling. However, two manufactured dwellings may be supported by a common foundation wall adequately sized to support both structures;  (h) Each electrical, plumbing, heating, and mechanical system within a manufactured dwelling is independent of the systems within adjacent manufactured dwellings; and  (i) The manufactured dwellings are joined only by flashing and weather resistant roofing materials.  (5) Manufactured dwellings accommodating not more than 10 persons may be used as lodging houses, congregate residences, adult foster homes, or family day care (Group R Occupancies) provided the manufactured dwelling:  (a) Meets all applicable requirements of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;  (b) If an affected building, must be accessible to persons with disabilities;  (c) Has a minimum of two 36 inch wide by 80 inch high exit doors located remote from each other, exiting to the exterior of the manufactured dwelling;  (d) Has a minimum of two bathrooms;  (e) Meets the minimum setback requirements of the Oregon Residential Specialty Code;  (f) Has the occupancy and its location approved by the municipality prior to installation or occupancy; and  (g) Has a certificate of occupancy issued by the municipality prior to occupancy.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 446.160 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 446.003, 446.055, 446.155, 446.185, 446.225, 446.245, 455.020 & 455.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 1-2010, f. 3-1-10, cert. ef. 4-1-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
