



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-3885 
 Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan 
 
 These rules are established to provide policy direction for the conservation and management of the Miller Lake Lamprey Species Management Unit. The Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan Implementation Strategy guides Department staff in the implementation of management strategies.  (1) Species Management Unit and Population Description The Miller Lake Lamprey species management unit is comprised of six documented populations and one uncertain population. They are:  (a) Mainstem Upper Williamson River above Klamath Marsh;  (b) Miller Creek;  (c) Jack Creek;  (d) Sycan River above Sycan Marsh;  (e) Long Creek;  (f) Coyote Creek;  (g) Shake Creek (lamprey species uncertain).  (2) Desired Status The desired status of the Miller Lake lamprey is for the species to be distributed widely throughout its historic range, with populations robust enough to withstand stochastic environmental events, and with both the populations and their habitat secure from anthropogenic threats.  (3) Management Strategies The short- and long-term management strategies for the Miller Lake Lamprey species management unit are:  (a) Short-term Strategy Re-establish connectivity to Miller Lake.  (b) Long-term Strategies  (A) Ensure appropriate habitat conditions and availability within the natural range of Miller Lake lamprey.  (B) Reduce entrainment or the potential for entrainment of adult and larval lampreys into water diversions.  (C) Reduce stranding or the potential for stranding of larval lampreys in dewatered segments of streams below water diversions.  (D) Maintain unobstructed opportunities, within and among populations, to allow for genetic exchange, natural dispersal or migration activities, and re-colonization of unoccupied portions of historical habitat.  (E) No hatchery fish shall be stocked in streams that support Miller Lake lamprey.  (4) Research, Monitoring and Evaluation  (a) Research: Promote scientific studies of the Miller Lake Lamprey to aid in the conservation of the species.  (b) Monitoring: Where appropriate, incorporate lampreys into fish survey protocols in the Klamath Basin and seek to collaborate with other researchers carrying out lamprey surveys in the Basin.  (c) Evaluation: Periodically evaluate the status of Miller Lake lamprey and the success of the conservation plan management strategies.  (5) Adaptive Management:  (a) The Klamath Watershed District Manager shall assemble a group of scientists with experience or interest in lamprey biology to serve as the Miller Lake Lamprey Technical Management Team.  (b) The Miller Lake Lamprey Technical Management Team shall meet periodically to review the success of the management actions identified in the Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan and identify modifications to management actions that are needed to achieve the desired status for Miller Lake lamprey.  (6) Trigger for Plan Modification Substantial negative changes in the distribution or abundance of the Miller Lake lamprey, or the recognition of new threats to the species, shall prompt a review of the species management unit’s status and all Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan management strategies by the Miller Lake Lamprey Technical Management Team. Appropriate modifications to the Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan intended to better achieve the desired status identified in the Plan shall be proposed by the Miller Lake Lamprey Technical Management Team.  (7) Reporting:  (a) The Miller Lake Lamprey Technical Management Team shall periodically report on the status of Miller Lake lamprey and the effectiveness of the management strategies identified in the Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan.  (b) Annual Miller Lake Lamprey data collected and any reports on the status of Miller Lake Lamprey or evaluations of the Miller Lake Lamprey Conservation Plan shall be made available to the public. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, ORS 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.162, ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 57-2005, f. 6-21-05, cert. ef. 7-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
