



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0075 
 Intercollegiate Athletics Records 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the intercollegiate athletics records of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Athletic Eligibility Records: Records document verification by the athletic director of student athletes’ academic progress to the Northwest Athletic Association of community colleges (NWAACC). These records include computer generated academic progress reports. (Minimum retention: five years).  (2) Athletic Scheduling Records: Records document competition schedules set up with other colleges by coaches and the athletic director. Records may include but are not limited to contracts; final schedules; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: six years after expiration).  (3) Game Arrangement Records: Records provide a reference record of arrangements made for and the schedules of past games. Records may include but are not limited to team practice schedules; team position assignments/depth charts; itineraries; bus lists; notes; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: one year).  (4) Game Statistics: Records may include but are not limited to player academic statistics; season and game player statistics; rankings; awards information; NWAACC game statistics; all-conference nominations; numerical rosters; media guides; narrative reports on games; final team statistics for each game; NWAACC official scoring summaries; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: 20 years).  (5) Practice Schedule Records: Records are used to monitor practice time for athletic teams and assist in complying with NWAACC rules and regulations. Records consist of team rosters indicating time spent in practices, meetings, training and conditioning, and competition. (Minimum retention: one year).  (6) Student Athletes Eligibility Records: Records document the participation of student athletes; providing records of academic progress while students are involved in athletic programs at the institution; and complies with NWAACC and other applicable conference reporting requirements. These records include letters of intent; Talent Grant or athletic scholarships awarded, renewals of letters of intent; NWAACC Progress or other conference reports; students’ request for release from athletic programs; disciplinary memoranda; and related correspondence. (Minimum retention: three years).  (7) Student Athlete Medical History Records: Records document the medical history of each athlete before and during his/her attendance at the college. Records may include but are not limited to annual health appraisals; authorization to release information forms; treatment consent forms; assumption of risk forms; accident reports; off campus treatment source records; and insurance questionnaires. Some records may be duplicated Medical Records in Health Services. SEE ALSO: Medical Records in Health Services Records section. Information may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(2). (Minimum retention: three years). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
