



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-6305 
 Night Cabinet 
 
 (1) If a night cabinet is used, the following procedures must be followed:  (a) The cabinet or other enclosure located outside the pharmacy must be secure from unauthorized access;  (b) Only one authorized registered nurse on a shift may have access to the night cabinet and may remove drugs. Such nurse must be designated in writing by the appropriate committee of the hospital and prior to being given access to the night cabinet, must receive appropriate training in the proper procedures for access, removal of drugs, and recordkeeping;  (c) The PIC or designee must give this training, and must require, at a minimum, the following procedures:  (A) A drug may only be removed from the night cabinet on a practitioner's written order or a verbal order that has been reduced to writing;  (B) A copy of the practitioner's order must be left in the night cabinet for the pharmacist to verify for accuracy. Both the nurse supervisor and the verifying pharmacist must initial the order.  (2) In conjunction with the appropriate hospital committee, the CPO must develop an inventory of those drugs to be included in each cabinet and establish procedures to ensure that:  (a) Drugs are available and labeled as required by these rules;  (b) Only prepackaged drugs are placed in the cabinet;  (c) Quantities do not exceed those reasonable for immediate therapeutic requirements;  (d) Whenever a cabinet has been accessed, a written record is kept of the drug order and certification of the drug use;  (e) Controlled substances are kept securely and are accounted for using a reconciled perpetual inventory;  (f) An audit of controlled substances in the cabinet is conducted at least once per month. If a tamper-evident seal system is not used, a quality assurance program must be in place to identify any diversion. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155 & 689.605 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 3-2010, f. 4-29-10, cert. ef. 4-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
