



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 CHEMICAL PROCESS MINING CONSOLIDATED APPLICATION AND PERMIT REVIEW STANDARDS 
 635-420-0090 
 Content of Inspection Report 
 
 (1) Department inspection reports shall be made on a form approved by the Department and shall indicate:  (a) The date and time of inspection;  (b) The name of the Department employee who conducted the inspection and include his or her signature;  (c) Access to and adequacy of the permittee’s wildlife injury and mortality reports and facility monitoring and inspection reports;  (d) Whether or not the general wildlife protection standards have been adequately implemented;  (e) Whether or not the special wildlife protection conditions specific to the chemical process mine permit have been adequately implemented;  (f) Any violations noted by the Department;  (g) Modifications necessary to correct any identified violations.  (2) The Department shall record on the inspection report any condition or practice existing at a chemical process mine that is or can reasonably be expected to be harmful to wildlife. In making this determination, the Department shall:  (a) Identify the condition or practice which is or can reasonably be expected to be harmful to wildlife;  (b) Identify the portion of the chemical process mine within which the condition or practice occurs;  (c) Specify revisions or modifications of the permit conditions which are necessary to correct the condition or practice, including temporary or emergency measures to be taken in the interim.  (3) The Department shall request DOGAMI to convene the Project Coordinating Committee at the earliest possible date to review permit modifications proposed by the Department to correct a condition or practice which is or can reasonably be expected to be harmful to wildlife.  (4) The Department shall record on the inspection report any condition or practice existing at a chemical process mine that is in violation of any requirement of this division or any permit condition designed to protect wildlife. In making this determination, the Department shall:  (a) Identify the provisions of the permit which have been violated;  (b) Set forth with reasonable specificity the nature of the violation;  (c) Identify the steps necessary to abate the violation, in the most expeditious manner possible, including temporary or emergency measures to be taken in the interim;  (d) Identify the portion of the chemical process mine which is subject to the violation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012 & 506.109 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012 & 506.109 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 140-1991, f. & cert. ef. 12-26-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
