



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE 
 309-012-0034 
 Delivery of Ability-to-Pay Orders and Factors Relating to Appeals 
 
 (1) Delivery to the Person — The original Ability-to-Pay Order shall be delivered to the person, unless the person has an authorized representative.  (2) Delivery to the Authorized Representative — If the person has an authorized representative, the original Ability-to-Pay Order shall be delivered to the authorized representative, and a copy shall be delivered to the person. Any Ability-to-Pay Order delivered to an authorized representative shall include an explanation of the Division’s right to demand payment of the charges assessed by the Order, and the consequences to the authorized representative of failing to comply, as provided by ORS 179.653.  (3) Appeal Rights — The Ability-to-Pay Order shall include an explanation of the person’s right to appeal the determination set forth by the Order.  (4) Successor Authorized Representative — If the person’s authorized representative does not pay or appeal the charges assessed by an Ability-to-Pay Order, and he or she is subsequently replaced by a new authorized representative, the successor authorized representative shall be provided with the opportunity to either pay the assessed charges, or to appeal the determination set forth by the Order. The Division will take the following actions when notified there is a successor authorized representative:  (a) Deliver copies of all Ability-to-Pay Orders not fully paid to the successor authorized representative with a letter which describes the delivery of the Order(s) to the previous authorized representative(s), and any actions taken by the previous representative(s) with regard to the Order(s);  (b) Include with the Order copies, an explanation of the successor authorized representative’s right to appeal the determination(s) set forth by the Ability-to-Pay Order(s).  (5) Resolving Appeals — If the person or the person’s authorized representative appeals a determination set forth by an Ability-to-Pay Order, the Division will attempt to resolve the appeal by issuing a new Ability-to-Pay Order which takes into consideration the information on which the appeal is based. If the appeal cannot be resolved by issuing a new Order, it will be addressed through the contested case appeal process. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.770 & 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.610 – 179.770 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHD 9-1991, f. 12-13-91, cert. ef. 12-16-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
