



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 REDUCTION OF VEHICLE-CARRYING CAPACITY 
 731-012-0020 
 Definitions 
 
 For the purposes of Division 12 rules, the following terms have the following definitions, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:  (1) “Access Considerations” means activities regulated under OAR 734-051, and ORS 374.300 to 374.360  (2) “Chief Engineer” means the Chief Engineer of the Oregon Department of Transportation.  (3) “Commission” means Oregon Transportation Commission.  (4) “Department” means Oregon Department of Transportation.  (5) “Director” means the Director of the Oregon Department of Transportation.  (6) “Engineer” means a professional engineer licensed by the State of Oregon.  (7) “Mobility Policy Committee” means a committee of the Director, Chief of Staff, Motor Carrier Division Administrator, Highway Division Administrator, and the Transportation Development Division Administrator of the Oregon Department of Transportation that oversees Department policies related to the statewide traffic mobility program.  (8) “Oregon Highway Plan (OHP)” means the Oregon Highway Plan adopted by the Oregon Transportation Commission, pursuant to ORS 184.618.  (9) “Permanent Reduction” means a reduction subject to this rule will be considered permanent if the reduction is intended to be permanently left in place after installation and is not easily removable for short-term expansion of Vehicle-Carrying Capacity. (Permanent structures could include, but are not limited to, traffic signals, signposts, stationary bollards, curbs, trees, raised or depressed medians, roundabouts, streetlights and overhead wiring.) If there is uncertainty as to whether or not a structure is permanent, the Department will provide an opportunity for Stakeholder Forum input.  (10) “Proposed Action” means any activity that will alter, relocate, change or realign a state highway including those proposed in planning documents approved by a public agency.  (11) “Reduction of Vehicle-Carrying Capacity” means a permanent reduction in the horizontal or vertical clearance of a highway section, by a permanent physical obstruction to motor vehicles located on useable right-of-way subject to Commission jurisdiction, unless such changes are supported by the Stakeholder Forum. Street markings such as bike lane striping or on street parking are not considered a reduction of vehicle-carrying capacity.  (12) “Reduction Review Routes” means identified state highways that require a review under this rule prior to a Reduction of Vehicle-Carrying Capacity. For the purposes of this rule, the Reduction Review Routes will be the routes subject to ORS 366.215.  (13) “Safety” means the condition of reduced risk of death or bodily injury associated with any mode of transportation as determined by established engineering practice.  (14) “Safety Consideration” means a consideration for determining when the Department will reduce Vehicle-Carrying Capacity. This can occur when an Engineer, after evaluating pertinent information and applying appropriate principles, decides that a safety countermeasure is required for reducing certain types of crashes that are occurring or, in the judgment of the Engineer, have a high risk of occurring and are of the type that would produce severe injuries (i.e., injuries involving pedestrians and/or bicyclists).  (15) “Stakeholder Forum” means a group of stakeholders with open membership that meets on an as-needed basis to advise the Department regarding the affect of Proposed Actions on the ability to move motor vehicles through a section of highway. Statewide transportation stakeholders and local agency(ies) affected by a proposed action will be invited to participate in the Stakeholder Forum meetings. At a minimum, the Department will invite to each Stakeholder Forum; a bicycle representative, pedestrian representative, a trucking industry representative, a mobile home manufacturing representative, an oversize load freight representative, a representative of automobile users, and a representative from any affected city, county or Metropolitan Planning Organization. In the case of a development review (ODOT staff review of a proposed land use action), a representative of the affected development will also be invited to participate in the meeting.  (16) “Vehicle-Carrying Capacity” means the horizontal or vertical clearance of a highway section that can physically carry motor vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 366.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 366.215 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 8-26-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
