



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 LIVESTOCK IDENTIFICATION AND THEFT PREVENTION 
 603-014-0310 
 Permits to Use Out-of-State Livestock Brands and the Conditions and Fees for Such Use 
 
 (1) When an out-of-state brand is unavailable for recording due to its similarity to other brands recorded in Oregon, a permit to use such a brand shall be required.  (2) A permit to use a brand not recorded in Oregon shall be issued by the Department of Agriculture, acting through the Livestock Health and Identification Division, under the following conditions:  (a) The brand to be used must be currently registered in another state;  (b) The applicant must submit a facsimile (tracing) of the branding iron to be used;  (c) Permits shall be valid for eight months from the date of issue. A permit may be renewed once for a period of no greater than four months. In no event will permits be valid for longer than 12 months. Thereafter, continued use of the brand will require a new permit;  (d) Animals to be branded must be brand inspected before the out-of-state brand is applied. The usual brand inspection fee shall apply;  (e) If animals are branded at an auction market where brand inspection has occurred, no additional brand inspection fee shall be charged;  (f) Change of ownership brand inspection is required within eight days of the transfer. If rebranding takes place when its inspection occurs, no additional brand inspection shall be charged. However, if cattle are branded at a later time, another inspection shall be required and the usual fee shall apply;  (g) A $60 processing fee shall be charged for a permit; a $5 fee shall be charged for processing a renewal of the permit.  (3) A permit shall not be issued to an out-of-state brand owner pasturing livestock in the same Oregon county as the owner of the Oregon conflicting brand.  (4) A Supervising Livestock Brand Inspector may authorize the use of an out-of-state brand at the time of brand inspection. Upon verifying the brand is currently registered in another state, the inspector will collect the $60 fee, brand facsimile and permit application and forward these items to the Brand Recorder for processing. If the brand is available for recording in Oregon, registration documents will be issued. If the brand is not available for recording in Oregon, the out-of-state brand permit will be issued. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & 604.071 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 604.071 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 23-1993, f. & cert. ef. 12-21-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 4-1988, f. 4-5-88, cert. ef. 4-15-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
