



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY 
 125-035-0050 
 Compliance and Utilization 
 
 (1) Separate warehouse property issue and invoice documents shall be prepared for each item of Federal surplus property with an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and for all passenger motor vehicles. An additional statement, establishing property utilization standards, shall be printed on the face of the property issue and invoice document advising the donee that this item of Federal surplus property must be placed in use within one year of acquisition and used continuously for a period of 18 months thereafter.  (2) Passenger motor vehicles, and other motor vehicles required to be licensed by the Oregon Department of Transportation’s Driver and Motor Vehicle Services shall be licensed, and filed with the SASP shown as the security interest holder. When the vehicle has been utilized in accordance with the terms and conditions of transfer, and when 18 months of use have expired, the SASP shall release the title to the donee.  (3) At least once during the period of restriction, SASP personnel, or a designated representative, shall review all passenger motor vehicles and issued items with an original acquisition value of $5,000 or more to determine that these items are being utilized in accordance with the purpose for which acquired. Review shall consist of a minimum of 5% on site physical inspections and written certification of property utilization by donee.  (4) During the physical review, a SASP representative shall ascertain whether the donee is complying with any special handling conditions or use limitations imposed on items of property by General Services Administration in accordance with FPMR 101-44.108. The review shall include a survey of donee compliance with the statutory requirements that all items of property acquired by the donee have been placed into use within one year of acquisition and used for one year thereafter. Written reports on utilization and compliance reviews shall be made and placed on file.  (5) Whenever there is any indication of misuse, noncompliance, or alleged fraud, the SASP shall initiate the appropriate level of investigation of the allegations, including a report to the FBI when appropriate. The General Services Administration shall be notified of all cases including misuse, noncompliance, or alleged fraud. The State Agency for Surplus Property shall take necessary actions to assist General Services Administration and other Federal and State agencies in investigating such cases.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279 & 283 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 3-1984, f. 6-29-84, ef. 6-30-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
