



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Energy Facility Siting Council - Chapter 345 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND DECOMMISSIONING RULES FOR URANIUM MILLS 
 345-095-0060 
 Standards that Apply to Operation 
 
 The following rules apply to the operation of a uranium mill:  (1) The certificate holder shall implement a safety and health program covering both occupational and radiological hazards, subject to the approval of the Council and including:  (a) Identification of an onsite occupational safety officer trained and experienced in the recognition and control of the occupational hazards of milling operations including physical and chemical hazards and the use of respiratory protection equipment.  (b) Identification of an onsite radiological safety officer trained and experienced in the recognition and control of the radiological hazards associated with uranium milling operations.  (c) Description of the authority of the safety officers to order immediate correction of safety or health hazards including process modification or cessation if, in the judgment of the safety officer, such action is required to protect workers or the public.  (d) An occupational radiological dose assessment program.  (e) A policy stating that personal protective equipment, including respirators, shall not be used routinely in lieu of process modification in order to meet personnel exposure limits.  (f) An employee training program that includes training in the safety and health hazards of facility operation and the use of personnel protection equipment and procedures.  (2) The site certificate holder shall maintain records of all yellowcake shipments including amounts, routes to be followed, description of packaging, description of labeling and a copy of the information supplied to the shipper, including instructions to be followed in case of an accident. The certificate holder shall make these records available for review by the Council or its representatives. The certificate holder shall submit an emergency plan for transportation accidents to the Council for approval before beginning operation of the facility. The certificate holder shall submit any later changes in the plan to the Council at least 45 days before they are effective, except that the certificate holder may immediately implement any temporary changes the certificate holder believes are necessary immediately for the protection of the public health and safety or the health and safety of facility personnel.  (3) The certificate holder shall have established written procedures for dealing with off-normal and emergency situations including, but not limited to:  (a) Failure of yellowcake drying and packaging dust control systems.  (b) Fire.  (c) Dam or dike failure.  (d) Slurry pipeline rupture.  (e) Hazardous process chemical spills.  (4) The certificate holder shall not use underground injection of solutions for the extraction of minerals including uranium (in situ solution mining).  (5) The certificate holder shall not remove uranium mill tailings from the facility for any purpose other than samples for research or analytical purposes. The site certificate holder shall maintain a permanent record of any tailings transfer for such purposes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.556 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.470 & 469.556 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2007, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 2-1980, f. & ef. 2-28-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
