



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 SMALL GENERATOR INTERCONNECTION RULES 
 860-082-0055 
 Tier 3 Interconnection Review
 
 
 (1) A public utility must use the Tier 3 interconnection review procedures when the applicant submits an application requesting Tier 3 review to interconnect a small generator facility that meets the following requirements: 

 (a) The small generator facility must have a nameplate rating of 10 megawatts or less; 

 (b) The small generator facility must not be connected to a transmission line; 

 (c) The small generator facility must not export power beyond the point of interconnection; and 

 (d) The small generator facility must use low forward power relays or other protection functions that prevent power flow onto the area network. 

 (2) Tier 3 Approval Criteria. A public utility must approve an application to interconnect a small generator facility under the Tier 3 interconnection review procedures if the facility meets the Tier 2 approval criteria in OAR 860 082 0050(2)(a)-(b), (i) and the additional approval criteria in subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this section. A public utility may not impose different or additional approval criteria. 

 (a) For a small generator facility to interconnect to the load side of an area network distribution circuit, the small generator facility must meet the following criteria: 

 (A) The nameplate rating of the small generator facility must be 50 kilowatts or less; 

 (B) The small generator facility must use lab-tested, inverter-based interconnection equipment; 

 (C) The aggregated nameplate rating on the area network must not exceed five percent of an area network's maximum load or 50 kilowatts, whichever is less; and 

 (D) Except as allowed in subsection (2)(c), the interconnection of the small generator facility must not require system upgrades or interconnection facilities different from or in addition to the applicant’s proposed interconnection equipment. 

 (b) For a small generator facility to interconnect to a distribution circuit that is not networked, the small generator facility must meet the following criteria: 

 (A) The aggregated nameplate rating on the circuit must be 10 megawatts or less; 

 (B) The small generator facility’s point of interconnection must be to a radial distribution circuit; 

 (C) The small generator facility must not be served by a shared transformer; 

 (D) Except as allowed in subsection (2)(c), the interconnection of the small generator facility must not require system upgrades or interconnection facilities different from or in addition to the applicant’s proposed interconnection equipment; and 

 (E) If the public utility’s distribution circuit uses high speed reclosing with less than two seconds of interruption, then the small generator facility must not be a synchronous machine. If the small generator facility is a synchronous machine, then the applicant must submit a Tier 4 application. 

 (c) If the small generator facility fails to meet one or more of the Tier 3 approval requirements, but the public utility determines that the small generator facility could be interconnected safely if minor modifications to the transmission or distribution system were made (for example, changing meters, fuses, or relay settings), then the public utility must offer the applicant a good-faith, non-binding estimate of the costs of such proposed minor modifications. Modifications are not considered minor under this subsection if the total cost of the modifications exceeds $10,000. If the applicant authorizes the public utility to proceed with the minor modifications and agrees to pay the entire cost of the modifications, then the public utility must approve the application under Tier 3. 

 (3) In addition to the timelines and requirements in OAR 860-082-0025, the following timelines and requirements apply to Tier 3 interconnection reviews: 

 (a) An interconnecting public utility must schedule a scoping meeting within 10 business days after notifying an applicant that its application is complete. The applicant may agree to waive the scoping meeting requirement. 

 (b) Within 20 business days after a public utility notifies an applicant its application is complete or a scoping meeting is held, whichever is later, the public utility must: 

 (A) Evaluate the application using the Tier 3 approval criteria; 

 (B) Review any independent analysis of the proposed interconnection provided by the applicant that was performed using the Tier 3 approval criteria; and 

 (C) Provide written notice to the applicant stating whether the public utility approved the application. If the proposed interconnection passes the screens, the public utility must follow the requirements in OAR 860-082-0025(7)(f). If applicable, the public utility must include a comparison of its evaluation to the applicant’s independent evaluation. 

 (4) Approval despite screen failure. Despite the failure of one or more screens, the public utility, at its sole option, may approve the interconnection provided such approval is consistent with safety and reliability. 

 (5) Process after screen failure. If the public utility cannot determine that the small generator facility may nevertheless be interconnected consistent with safety and reliability standards, at the time the public utility notifies the applicant of the Tier 3 review results, the public utility must provide the applicant with: 

 (a) The screen results, including specific information on the reason(s) for failure in writing using a standard format approved by the Commission; and 

 (b) An executable Supplemental Review Agreement. 

 (c) In addition, the public utility will allow the applicant to select one of the following, at the applicant’s option: 

 (A) Request an applicant options meeting; 

 (B) Undergo supplemental review in accordance with OAR 860-082-0063; or 

 (C) Continue evaluating the application under Tier 4. 

 (d) The applicant must notify the public utility of its selection under subsection (c) within 10 business days, or the application will be deemed withdrawn. 

 (6) Applicant options meeting. If the applicant requests an applicant options meeting, the public utility shall offer to convene a meeting at a mutually agreeable time within 15 business days of the applicant’s request. At the applicant options meeting the public utility shall provide the applicant the opportunity to review the screen analysis and related results, to designate a different RPA, to review possible customers-generator modifications, and to discuss what further steps are needed to permit the small generator facility to connect safely and reliably. 

 (7) The interconnection process is not complete until: 

 (a) The public utility approves the application; 

 (b) Any minor modifications to the transmission or distribution system required under subsection (2)(c) are complete; 

 (c) The witness test, if conducted by the public utility, is successful; and 

 (d) The applicant and public utility execute a certificate of completion. The certificate of completion must follow the standard form certificate developed by the public utility and approved by the Commission. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, ORS 756 & ORS 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & ORS 756.060 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 4-2024, amend filed 04/09/2024, effective 04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 10-2009, f. & cert. ef. 8-26-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
