



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-6401 
 Effective dates for worker training programs in Oregon 
 
 Beginning on January 1, 2018, training programs for workers must include, at a minimum, all of the following topics:  (1) The responsibility of agricultural employers to provide workers and handlers with information and protections designed to reduce work-related pesticide exposures and illnesses. This includes ensuring workers and handlers have been trained on pesticide safety, providing pesticide safety and application and hazard information, decontamination supplies and emergency medical assistance, and notifying workers of restrictions during applications and on entering pesticide treated areas. A worker or handler may designate in writing a representative to request access to pesticide application and hazard information.  (2) How to recognize and understand the meaning of the posted warning signs used for notifying workers of restrictions on entering pesticide treated areas on the establishment.  (3) How to follow directions and/or signs about keeping out of pesticide treated areas subject to a restricted-entry interval and application exclusion zones.  (4) Where and in what forms pesticides may be encountered during work activities, and potential sources of pesticide exposure on the agricultural establishment. This includes exposure to pesticide residues that may be on or in plants, soil, tractors, application and chemigation equipment, or used personal protective equipment, and that pesticides may drift through the air from nearby applications or be in irrigation water.  (5) Potential hazards from toxicity and exposure that pesticides present to workers and their families, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.  (6) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.  (7) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.  (8) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.  (9) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eye flushing techniques, and if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body to use decontamination supplies to wash immediately or rinse off in the nearest clean water, including springs, streams, lakes or other sources if more readily available than decontamination supplies, and as soon as possible, to wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes.  (10) How and when to obtain emergency medical care.  (11) Instructions to wear work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues and wash hands before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet, when working in pesticide treated areas.  (12) Instructions to wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes as soon as possible after working in pesticide treated areas.  (13) Information about the potential hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.  (14) Wash work clothes before wearing them again and wash them separately from other clothes.  (15) Do not take pesticides or pesticide containers used at work to your home.  (16) Safety data sheets provide hazard, emergency medical treatment and other information about the pesticides used on the establishment they may come in contact with. The responsibility of agricultural employers to do all of the following:  (a) Display safety data sheets for all pesticides used on the establishment.  (b) Provide workers and handlers information about the location of the safety data sheets on the establishment.  (c) Provide workers and handlers unimpeded access to safety data sheets during normal work hours.  (17) The rule prohibits agricultural employers from allowing or directing any worker to mix, load or apply pesticides or assist in the application of pesticides unless the worker has been trained as a handler.  (18) The responsibility of agricultural employers to provide specific information to workers before directing them to perform early-entry activities. Workers must be 18 years old to perform early-entry activities.  (19) Potential hazards to children and pregnant women from pesticide exposure.  (20) Instructions to keep children and nonworking family members away from pesticide treated areas.  (21) Instructions to remove work boots or shoes before entering your home, and remove work clothes and wash or shower before physical contact with children or family members, after working in pesticide treated areas.  (22) How to report suspected pesticide use violations to the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.  (23) The rule prohibits agricultural employers from intimidating, threatening, coercing, or discriminating against any worker or handler for complying with or attempting to comply with the requirements of this rule, or because the worker or handler provided, caused to be provided or is about to provide information to the employer, or the EPA or its agents, or to Oregon OSHA regarding conduct that the employee reasonably believes violates these rules, and/or made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing concerning compliance with these rules. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 – 654.295 & 654.750 – 654.780 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 1-2017, f. 2-14-17, cert. ef. 1-1-18 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
