



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 FOOD SAFETY DIVISION — BAKERIES 
 603-021-0720 
 Processing Methods 
 
 (1) General sanitation: The operations of receiving, segregating, holding, compounding, mixing, packaging and packing, storing, transporting, and handling shall be conducted in a sanitary manner. There shall be no contamination, adulteration, or deterioration of the product or its ingredients. Every plant manu-facturing bottled beverages shall be equipped with suitable mechanical bottle washing apparatus, and with approved machines for carbonating, filling, and crowning. Plant operations shall be performed in such a manner as to prevent the operator or his clothing from coming in contact with the beverages or sanitized product-contact surfaces.  (2) Bottle washing: Reusable glass containers used in the manufacture of soft drinks shall, before being refilled, be sanitized by being washed in an automatic washing machine. An indicating thermometer and caustic solution test equipment shall be used to ascertain the temperature and caustic strength of the washing solution.The washing solution shall consist of at least 3 percent caustic soda with a minimum contact period of five minutes and a temperature of 130°F or an equivalent cleansing and sanitizing process. The bottles shall be rinsed free of washing solution with potable water. Single-service containers may be sanitized by air or water rinsing machines. One trip (single service) containers, such as bottles and cans, may be washed in a mechanical bottle washer, air or water rinsed. One trip containers that are not washed, air or water rinsed shall be stored in such manner as to protect such containers from airborne and manual contamination.  (3) Preparation of sirups: Sirups shall be prepared in a sanitary manner. Every precaution shall be taken against contamination, absorption, or deleterious substances during the preparation and subsequent storage. Sirup tanks and vats shall be covered and constructed of stainless steel or other suitable noncorrosive material. The tanks shall be free from defects, self-draining, free from seams, and shall be of such construction as to be readily flushed, cleaned, and sanitized. Galvanized iron, lead, zinc, copper, or brass-lined containers, pipelines, or apparatus of other deleterious materials shall not be used in preparation, storage, or conveyance of sirups. The sirup room shall be equipped with a wash sink and plumbed with a drain and hot and cold running water.  (4) Filling and crowning: Bottles shall be filled and capped by means of automatic machinery, and neither the operator nor his clothes shall come in contact with any part of the bottle or machinery that might result in contamination of the product. Removal of the crown of imperfectly crowned bottles and recrowning shall not be permitted. Crowns which have been touched on the inner side by the operator, as may occur while adjusting the crowner, shall be discarded. Returnable bottles shall be inspected for any abnormal condition immediately before or after being filled. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & 635.045 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 635.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 851(23-67), f. & ef. 9-13-67 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
