



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT GRANTS 
 330-200-0060 
 Competitive Review 
 
 (1) The department will conduct a competitive review of all applications that pass completeness review.  (2) Through competitive review, the department’s internal review team will prioritize applications for grants according to the criteria described in the rules. Depending on the Opportunity Announcement objectives, the department may give greater or lesser weight to each of the criteria listed in rules.  (3) In the Opportunity Announcement the department will list the evaluation criteria for the competitive review. The criteria the department may consider includes:  (a) The internal rate of return of the system, calculated using the formula provided by the department.  (b) The number of new jobs created by the system and the number of existing jobs sustained throughout the construction, installation and operation of the system.  (c) The strength of the financial plan of the system.  (d) The amount of net energy generated.  (e) The use of the energy generated.  (f) Integration into broader energy and environmental goals.  (g) The geographic diversity of the renewable energy production systems compared with the other systems for which grants have been requested in the current opportunity announcement.  (h) The technology or resource diversity of the renewable energy production systems compared with the other systems for which grants have been requested in the current opportunity announcement.  (i) If the applicant has previously received any Renewable Energy Development Grants or Business Energy Tax Credits, the operational status of the system for which such grants or tax credits was awarded.  (j) The feasibility of the system.  (4) The department’s internal review team will recommend to the director which systems to advance to technical review based on the competitive review results. The director will review and then amend or approve the recommendations.  (5) The department will notify applicants of the competitive review outcome. The department may place systems not advanced to the technical review phase on a supplemental list, pending the technical reviews of the selected systems. The department will retain the supplemental list until performance agreements are signed for the selected systems. The supplemental list will include only those projects submitted in response to the particular Opportunity Announcement.  (6) If an applicant has not started installation or construction of the system, an applicant may apply again for the same system in a future opportunity period by submitting a new application and fee. The department will not credit fees or applications submitted in response to a previous Opportunity Announcement to future Opportunity Announcements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469B.250 - 469B.265 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469B.250 - 469B.265 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 3-2012(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-22-12 thru 8-17-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
