



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-2225 
 Vehicles for Highway and Road Operation Characteristics and Maintenance 
 
 (1) Scope. This applies to employer-owned vehicles licensed for highway and road use, driven and/or maintained by employees on public or private property, except the following:  (a) Powered Industrial Trucks covered by OR-OSHA standard 1910.178 and OAR 437-002-0227.  (b) Earth moving equipment (scrapers, loaders, bulldozers and graders) covered by OAR 437-003-1926.602.  (c) Manufactured structures, ATVs, golf carts and other similar devices not intended for highway or road use.  NOTE: When operating a vehicle near overhead power lines more than 600 volts, OAR 437-002-0047 applies for General Industry employers and OAR 437-003-0047 applies for Construction employers.  (2) Vehicle Components.  (a) The engine start/stop control must be within reach of the driver.  (b) There must be steps, ladders and railings to allow safe access to and exit from areas on vehicles where employees must access. Steps and rungs must be slip resistant.  (c) Vehicles whose cargo is loaded by cranes, power shovels or other powered loaders must have a cab or cab shield that protects the occupants from the impact of falling material.  (d) Secure all material, equipment or tools to prevent movement or a barrier must be in place to protect the occupants from moving items.  (e) Vehicles with cabs must have a door or doors for entry and exit.  (f) Vehicle cargo must not prevent occupants from exiting under any condition.  (g) Vehicles must comply with ORS 811.225, Failure to Maintain Safety Belts in Working Order.  (3) Flashing Warning Lights. Buses with a capacity of 16 or more passengers must have a working flashing light system that complies with ORS 816.260 if they load or unload passengers on a public highway or road.  (4) Buses and Crew Trucks.  (a) Buses and crew trucks must have a secure seat with back rest for each occupant.  (b) Buses with an enclosed seating area for 12 or more workers, unless loaded from the rear, must have an emergency exit not less than 24 inches wide by not less than 48 inches high on the left side or rear of the vehicle. It must open easily from inside or outside the vehicle.  (5) Passenger Compartments.  (a) Floors and decks must be slip resistant.  (b) Seal openings between the engine compartment and muffler area to prevent carbon monoxide from entering the enclosed passenger compartment.  (c) Enclosed passenger compartment must be substantially dust proof and watertight.  (d) Areas where workers sit or stand must be free of protruding nails, screws, splinters or similar physical hazards.  (e) Protect riders from inclement weather by enclosing riding areas as necessary.  (6) Steering. Do not allow spinner knobs on vehicles without power steering. Spinner knobs must be on the inside of the steering wheel.  (7) Lighting. Where general lighting in vehicle operating areas is less than 2 footcandles per square foot, vehicles must have working lights that sufficiently light the travel path.  (8) Testing, Maintenance, and Repair.  (a) Block or crib heavy machinery, equipment or parts supported by slings, hoists, jacks or otherwise prevent it from falling before employees work underneath or between such objects.  (b) During repair or maintenance set all controls in neutral, stop the motor and set the brakes unless the work requires otherwise.  (c) During maintenance or inspection on vehicles with dump bins, use an attached, lockable support that prevents unintentional lowering of the bin.  (d) Disconnect the vehicle battery when the work allows and the energized system could cause injury.  (9) Warning Devices.  (a) All vehicles must have a working horn that can be heard above surrounding area noise. Paragraph (b) does not apply when the vehicle backs up with an observer or when the operator verifies that there is nobody behind the vehicle or when nobody may enter the danger area without the operator’s knowledge.  (b) Vehicles with an obstructed view to the rear must have a backup alarm that can be heard over the surrounding noise. If surrounding noise prevents this or if there are so many vehicles using backup alarms that they cannot be distinguished from each other, flashing or strobe lights are acceptable.  (10) Control of Exhaust Gases.  (a) Vehicles must have a working muffler.  (b) Exhaust pipes must direct the gasses away from occupants.  (c) Insulate or otherwise protect exhaust pipes exposed to worker contact.  (11) First Aid Kits. Vehicles for transport of 16 or more workers must have a clean, stocked first aid kit with enough supplies for the number of workers usually transported.  NOTE: Laws and/or administrative rules administered by other government agencies require fire extinguishers in vehicles under specifically defined circumstances.  (12) Controls.  (a) Levers that control dump or hoist devices must have a latch or other device that prevents accidental starting or tripping of the mechanism.  (b) The operator of a dump truck must be able to operate the tailgate trip handle from a position clear of the dumping load. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4). 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295. 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 6-2007, f. & cert. ef. 9-26-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
