



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 680 RESOURCE SITE INVENTORY AND PROTECTION PROCESS RULES 
 629-680-0100 
 Process for Board Evaluation of Threatened and Endangered Fish and Wildlife Species that Use Resource Sites that Are Sensitive to Forest Practices 
 
 (1) When a species is listed as threatened or endangered by state or federal authorities, the Board shall adopt rules to protect resource sites that are used by those species and that are sensitive to forest practices. The following process shall be used when the Board develops protection rules for these resource sites:  (a) The Board’s evaluation shall be based on the best available information summarized in a technical review paper. The paper must be submitted by those proposing protection for resource sites used by a threatened or endangered species. The paper may be written by the State Forester, another agency, an organization or a person. The paper shall demonstrate how the resource sites are sensitive to forest practices. The paper may rely upon information used during the listing process and must:  (A) Identify the resource sites used by the species;  (B) Identify forest practices that conflict with the resource sites;  (C) Evaluate the biological consequences of the identified conflicts; and  (D) Propose protection requirements and exceptions for the resource sites.  (b) The State Forester shall review the technical paper submitted under subsection (1)(a) of this rule. The review shall include an evaluation of the literature used, consultation with technical experts and a technical review by experts chosen by the State Forester. The State Forester shall submit a report of this review to the Board.  (c) The Board shall review and accept or reject the information presented in subsections (1)(a) and (b) of this rule;  (d) Using the technical review paper and the State Forester’s report, plus other available information for the species, the Board shall:  (A) Identify the resource sites for the species;  (B) Identify forest practices that conflict with the resource sites and evaluate the consequences of those conflicts;  (C) Determine the protection requirements for the resource sites; and  (D) Determine any exceptions criteria.  (2) The Board shall adopt protection requirements and exception criteria for resource sites used by the threatened or endangered species.  (3) The State Forester shall maintain an inventory of protected resource sites that are used by threatened or endangered species.  (4) When a threatened or endangered species is de-listed by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Board shall determine whether continued protection of resource sites is warranted:  (a) If the Board determines that continued protection rules are warranted, the rules shall be promulgated under the appropriate statutory authority;  (b) If the Board determines that continued protection rules are not warranted, existing rules shall be repealed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 527.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 527.715 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 9-1996, f. 12-2-96, cert. ef. 1-1-97, Renumbered from 629-056-0100 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 4-1991, f. & cert. ef. 5-23-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
