



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 CHILD ABUSE MULTIDISCIPLINARY INTERVENTION ACCOUNT 
 137-082-0250 
 Report 
 
 (1) The County's Semi-annual Statistical and Quarterly Fiscal Reports. The chair of each county's MDT is responsible for the Team's submission of an annual progress report. The county must provide to its' MDT any information requested by the Team if such information is necessary to be in compliance with the CAMI Account reporting requirements set forth in ORS 418.746(7) and OAR 137-082-200 et seq. The reports shall be in the form specified by the Department. The reports must document how the grant funds were utilized and the extent to which the programs were able to meet anticipated outcomes in terms of benefits to children and families. This information will be used to determine eligibility for future funding. To adequately prepare these reports, the county should include, as part of each biennial application, desired program outcomes, a description of the measurable objectives to be achieved in each service category and the data that will be used to measure the progress of the program towards the desired outcomes.  (2) The biannual reports shall address the following areas:  (a) Statements of Purpose, Objectives, Goals of Project or Activity;  (b) Problems or barriers that arose during the reporting year and how these were addressed;  (c) Results, Accomplishments, and Evaluations: This must include the data used to measure success towards outcomes and objectives as stated in the application;  (d) Conclusions and any recommendations; and  (e) Any additional information requested by the Department.  (3) Failure to submit the required reports by the due date will result in the county being placed on conditional eligibility status for any future funds. The county will be given written notice of this action. No further funds will be disbursed until the Department receives the required report.  (4) Submitting false or misleading information will result in denial of further funding until the county demonstrates that problem areas are identified and corrected. The applicant will be given written notice of this action.  (5) The Public or Private Agency's semi-Annual and Quarterly Fiscal Reports. An agency that is awarded money under these rules must submit reports to the county MDT and to the Department. The reports must document how the money was utilized and describe the extent to which the program was able to meet anticipated outcomes in terms of benefits to children and families. County MDTs receiving reports from a public or private agency under these rules must use the report in making future recommendations regarding allocation of moneys. The Department will use the public or private agency's reports to make future eligibility and allocation decisions and to evaluate programs funded under these rules.  (6) The public or private agency's reports shall address the following areas:  (a) Statements of Purpose, Objectives, Goals of Project or Activity;  (b) Problems or barriers that arose during the reporting year and how these were addressed;  (c) Results, Accomplishments, and Evaluations: this must include the data used to measure success towards outcomes and objectives as stated in the application;  (d) Conclusions and any recommendations; and  (e) Any additional information requested by the Department.  (7) Failure to submit the required report by the due date will result in the public or private agency being placed on conditional eligibility status for any future funds. The public or private agency will be given written notice of this action. No further funds will be disbursed until the Department receives the required report.  (8) Submitting false or misleading information will result in denial of further funding until the public or private agency demonstrates that problem areas are identified and corrected to the satisfaction of the Department. The public or private agency will be given written notice of this action. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 1993, Ch. 676 & OL 2001 & Ch. 624 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.746 - 418.794 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 2-2011, f. 3-30-11, cert. ef. 4-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 5-2002, f. 7-31-02, cert. ef. 8-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
