



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 VITAL STATISTICS 
 333-011-0265 
 Amending Birth Records
 
 
 (1) All amendments. Unless otherwise provided in these rules or in statute, all amendments to vital records shall be supported by: 

 (a) An affidavit setting forth: 

 (A) Information to identify the record; 

 (B) The incorrect data as it is listed on the record; and 

 (C) The correct data as it should appear. 

 (b) One or more original items of documentary evidence which support the alleged facts and which were established at least five years prior to the date of application for amendment or within seven years of the date of the event and one year prior to the date of the requested amendment. 

 (2) The state registrar shall evaluate the evidence submitted in support of any amendment, and when the state registrar finds reason to doubt its validity or adequacy the amendment may be rejected and the applicant advised of the reasons for this action. 

 (3) Who may apply: 

 (a) To change the date of birth, time of birth or sex of the registrant, only the facility where the birth occurred or the individual who submitted the report of birth may apply to amend unless the medical record is no longer available at the facility. If the medical record is no longer available, other individuals, including the parents and the registrant, shall submit an application for amendment under section (1) of this rule. If the evidence is not sufficient, the applicant must present a certified copy of a court order ordering such amendment. 

 (b) To amend a record of live birth for items other than date of birth, time of birth or sex, application may be made by one of the parents, the legal guardian, the registrant if 18 years of age or over, or the individual responsible for filing the report of live birth. 

 (c) To amend the sex of a registrant on a record of live birth by court order or administrative request to affirm gender identity, an individual must submit documentation under OAR 333-011-0272 or OAR 333-011-0275. 

 (4) Amendment of registrant's first, middle or last names on records of live birth within the first year. Until the registrant reaches the age of one year, first, middle, or last names of the registrant may be amended upon written request of: 

 (a) Both parents; or 

 (b) One parent if only one parent appears on the record or if the other parent is deceased or incapacitated; or 

 (c) The legal guardian or agency having legal custody of the registrant. 

 (5) Amendment of registrant’s first, middle or last names on records of live birth after the first year: 

 (a) After one year from the date of birth the provisions of section (1) of this rule must be followed to amend a first, middle or last name if the name was misspelled on the birth record. 

 (b) A legal change of name order must be submitted from a court of competent jurisdiction to change a first, middle or last name that appears on the birth record after one year from date of birth unless the change of name is made for gender identity purposes under OAR 333-011-0271. 

 (6) Addition of first, middle or last name of a registrant on a record of live birth: 

 (a) Until the registrant's seventh birthday, first, middle and last names, for a child whose birth was registered without such names, may be added to the record of live birth upon written request of: 

 (A) Both parents; or 

 (B) One parent if only one parent appears on the record or if the other parent is deceased or incapacitated; or 

 (C) The legal guardian or agency having legal custody of the registrant. 

 (b) After seven years the provisions of section (1) of this rule must be followed to add a first, middle or last name. 

 (7) Amendment of parents’ information on birth records. When a requested amendment to an item, in combination with previous amendments or concurrent requests for amendment, would appear to change the identity of the parent through cumulative changes to name, date of birth, or place of birth, the state registrar shall only make such an amendment upon receipt of a court order from a court of competent jurisdiction. 

 (8) Original evidence documents submitted to correct errors in the spelling of a parent name, parent date of birth, or parent place of birth must be dated prior to the birth of the child. 

 (9) Birthing facilities may correct typographical errors on birth records within the first year. After one year, only errors in the child’s date of birth, time of birth or sex will be accepted directly from the birthing facility. The birthing facility must have access to the medical record when submitting the correction. 

 (10) For births occurring outside a birthing facility, medical certifiers may only correct typographical errors within the first year with evidence from the medical record or the birth worksheet. 

 (11) Amendment of minor errors on birth records. Amendment of obvious errors, transposition of letters in words of common knowledge, or omissions may be made by the state registrar either upon the state registrar's observation or upon request of one of the parents, the legal guardian, or the birthing facility or by the individual responsible for filing the report of live birth. The record shall not be marked "Amended". Corrections to names will not be considered minor errors. 

 (12) In all cases where the record is amended, there shall be inserted on the record a statement identifying the affidavit or documentary evidence used as proof of the correct facts, the date the amendment was made, and the initials of the person making the change. As required by statute or rule, the record shall be marked "Amended". 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 432.235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 432.235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 15-2017, amend filed 11/03/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 17-2013, f. 12-26-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
