



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OR HOLDING OPERATIONS 
 340-051-0010 
 Definitions
 
 
 Unless the context or OAR 603, division 074 requires otherwise, as used in these rules: 

 (1) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality or the Oregon Department of Agriculture. 

 (2) “Confined Animal Feeding Operation” means: 

 (a) The concentrated confined feeding or holding of animals or poultry, including, but not limited to horse, cattle, sheep, or swine feeding areas, dairy confinement areas, slaughterhouse or shipping terminal holding pens, poultry and egg production facilities and fur farms; 

 (A) In buildings or in pens or lots where the surface has been prepared with concrete, rock or fibrous material to support animals in wet weather; or 

 (B) That have wastewater treatment works; or 

 (C) That discharge any wastes into waters of the state; or 

 (b) An animal feeding operation that is subject to regulation as a concentrated animal feeding operation pursuant to 40 CFR §122.23. 

 (3) “Manure” means manure, bedding, compost and raw materials or other materials commingled with manure or set aside for disposal. 

 (4) “Person” means the state, any individual, public or private corporation, political subdivision, governmental agency, municipality, industry, copartnership, association, firm, trust, estate or any other legal entity whatsoever. 

 (5) “Process Wastewater” means water directly or indirectly used in the operation of the confined animal feeding operation for any or all of the following: spillage or overflow from animal or poultry watering systems; washing, cleaning or flushing pens, barns, manure pits, or other confined animal feeding operation facilities; direct contact swimming, washing, or spray cooling of animals; or dust control. Process wastewater or process wastes also includes any water that comes into contact with any raw materials, products, or byproducts including manure, litter, feed, milk, eggs, or bedding. 

 (6) “Production Area” means that part of a confined animal feeding operation that includes the animal confinement area, the manure storage area, the raw materials storage area, and the waste containment areas. The animal confinement area includes but is not limited to open lots, housed lots, feedlots, confinement houses, stall barns, free stall barns, milk rooms, milking centers, cow yards, barnyards, medication pens, walkers, animal walkways, and stables. The manure storage area includes but is not limited to lagoons, runoff ponds, storage sheds, stockpiles, under house or pit storages, liquid impoundments, static piles, and composting piles. The raw materials storage area includes but is not limited to feed silos, silage bunkers, and bedding materials. The waste containment areas include but are not limited to settling basins, and areas within berms and diversions that separate uncontaminated storm water. Also included in the definition of production area is any egg washing or egg processing facility and any area used in the storage, handling, treatment, or disposal of animal mortalities. 

 (7) “Waste Water Control Facility” means a “disposal system” or “treatment works” as defined by ORS 468B.005 that may cause pollution of surface water or groundwater and is used for collecting, conveying, treating, stabilizing or storing manure, litter, process wastewater, or contaminated production area drainage (i.e., silage leachate, contaminated storm water runoff, etc.) at confined animal feeding operations. 

 (8) “Waters of the State” include lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, wells, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, marshes, inlet, canals, the Pacific Ocean within the territorial limits of the State of Oregon, and all other bodies of surface or underground waters, natural or artificial, inland or coastal, fresh or salt, public or private (except those private waters that do not combine or effect a junction with natural surface or underground waters) that are wholly or partially within or bordering the state or within its jurisdiction. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & 468B.200 - 468B.230 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  468B.005, 468B.205 & ORS 468.005 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 56-2018, minor correction filed 04/04/2018, effective 04/04/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 12-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-2-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 21-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-6-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 34, f. 2-3-72, ef. 2-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
