



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 TRADE PRACTICES 
 836-080-0765 
 Practices Declared False, Misleading, Deceptive or Unfair on a Military Installation 
 
 (1) The following acts or practices when committed on a military installation by an insurer or insurance producer with respect to the in-person, face-to-face solicitation of life insurance are declared to be false, misleading, deceptive or unfair:  (a) Knowingly soliciting the purchase of any life insurance product “door to door” or without first establishing a specific appointment for each meeting with the prospective purchaser.  (b) Soliciting service members in a group or “mass” audience or in a “captive” audience when attendance is not voluntary.  (c) Knowingly making appointments with or soliciting service members during their normally scheduled duty hours.  (d) Making appointments with or soliciting service members in barracks, day rooms, unit areas, or transient personnel housing or other areas in which the installation commander has prohibited solicitation.  (e) Soliciting the sale of life insurance without first obtaining permission from the installation commander or the commander’s designee.  (f) Posting unauthorized bulletins notices or advertisements.  (g) Failing to present DD Form 2885, “Personal Commercial Solicitation Evaluation, to service members solicited or encouraging service members solicited not to complete or submit a DD Form 2885.  (h) Knowingly accepting an application for life insurance or issuing a policy of life insurance on the life of an enlisted member of the United States Armed Forces without first obtaining for the insurer’s files a completed copy of any required form that confirms that the applicant has received counseling or fulfilled any other similar requirement for the sale of life insurance established by regulations, directives or rules of the DoD or any branch of the Armed Forces.  (2) The following acts or practices when committed on a military installation by an insurer or insurance producer constitute corrupt practices, improper influences or inducements and are declared to be false, misleading, deceptive or unfair:  (a) Using DoD personnel, directly or indirectly, as a representative or agent in any official or business capacity with or without compensation with respect to the solicitation or sale of life insurance to service members.  (b) Using an insurance producer to participate in any United States Armed Forces sponsored education or orientation program. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 746.075, 746.110 & 746.240 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 7-2007, f. 9-14-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
