



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 OREGON NATURAL AREAS PROGRAM RULES 
 736-045-0405 
 Dedication and Management of a State Natural Area (Reserve): Instruments of Dedication
 
 
 (1) Private dedication — a private individual or organization that is the owner of any registered natural area may voluntarily agree to dedicate that area as a state natural area by executing with the department, an instrument of dedication. Instrument provisions and policies include, but are not limited to, the following: 

 (a) An agreement that provides each natural heritage resource in the state natural area with the most secure protection obtainable; 

 (b) An unlimited period of time, or a term sufficiently long to warrant dedication protection; 

 (c) Permission for conducting scientific research and other activities shall be commensurate with program objectives; and 

 (d) Termination of dedication may occur upon written notification to the commission, including specific reasons for termination, and provision by the commission of opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing. 

 (2) The department shall file an executed instrument of dedication of a state natural area under private ownership under section (1) in the office of the clerk of the county in which any or all of the state natural area is located, and shall be effective upon its recording. 

 (3) The department shall provide a copy of the dedication and management agreement(s) to the private owner of a state natural area. 

 (4) Agency dedication — any public agency may dedicate lands under the provisions of ORS 273.563 to 273.591, this division, and the plan, after providing the opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing. 

 (5) The Oregon Transportation Commission, the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, the State Board of Forestry, the State Board of Higher Education, and the State Land Board shall, with the advice and assistance of the department, establish procedures for the dedication of state natural areas on land, water, or both, the title of which is held by the State of Oregon, and which is under that agency’s management and control. 

 (6) Instruments of dedication under sections (1) and (4) shall contain any information or provisions as the private owner, organization or agency and department consider necessary to complete the dedication. 

 (7) Termination of the dedication of a state natural area by a public agency or a state natural area reserve by the department requires that the terminating agency: 

 (a) Provide an opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing; and 

 (b) Makes a finding of either: 

 (A) An imperative and unavoidable necessity due to natural disaster in the site, need of the natural resource during time of declared war, or the need of the natural resource because of extreme economic crisis of the state; or 

 (B) That the state natural area or state natural area reserve is no longer needed according to the guidelines of the plan, or has permanently lost its character, subject to the department’s approval. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273.586 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2019, amend filed 06/17/2019, effective 06/17/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 12-13-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 5-4-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
