



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 410 STATEWIDE WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
 690-410-0030 
 Instream Flow Protection 
 
 (1) Policy — Benefits are provided by water remaining where it naturally occurs. Protecting streamflows which are needed to support public uses is a high priority for the state. The long term goal of this policy shall be to establish an instream water right on every stream, river and lake which can provide significant public benefits. Where streamflows have been depleted to the point that public uses have been impaired, methods to restore the flows are to be developed and implemented. These activities shall be consistent with the preservation of existing rights, established duties of water, and priority dates, and with the principle that all of the waters within the state belong to the public to be used beneficially without waste.  (2) Principles — Programs to achieve the policy in section (1) of this rule shall be guided by the following principles:  (a) The Commission shall consider the needs of both instream and out-of-stream uses when reviewing future appropriations and developing streamflow restoration programs;  (b) Preservation of instream flows needed to support the purposes of State Scenic Waterways is a high priority for the state;  (c) Statewide and local programs should be implemented to restore and enhance streamflow and lake levels to provide public uses. Priority of restoration shall be established by the Water Resources Commission. The Commission shall consult with the Department of Fish and Wildlife, Environmental Quality, Parks and Recreation and the public, to identify those waterways where the greater public benefit could be obtained from additional streamflow restoration;  (d) The Department shall actively encourage the purchase, lease and gift of existing water rights for transfer to instream water rights, and the construction of environmentally sound multi-purpose storage projects;  (e) Streamflow restoration programs shall be designed to encourage cooperation and coordination between instream water interests and out-of-stream water users; and  (f) Instream water rights are preferred, over the establishment of new minimum perennial stream-flows, to protect instream public uses. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 536 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 13-1990, f. & cert. ef. 8-8-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
