



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0570 
 Superfecta Pools 
 
 (1) The Superfecta requires selection of the first four finishers, in their exact order, for a single contest.  (2) The net Superfecta pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first four betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first three betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a single price pool to those whose combination correctly selected the first-place betting interest only; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) The entire pool shall be refunded on Superfecta wagers for that contest.  (3) If less than four betting interests finish and the contest is declared official, payoffs will be made based upon the order of finish of those betting interests completing the contest. The balance of any selection beyond the number of betting interests completing the contest shall be ignored.  (4) If there is a dead heat for first involving:  (a) Contestants representing four or more betting interests, all of the wagering combinations selecting four betting interests which correspond with any of the betting interests involved in the dead heat shall share in a profit split.  (b) Contestants representing three betting interests, all of the wagering combinations selecting the three dead-heated betting interests, irrespective of order, along with the fourth-place betting interest shall share in a profit split.  (c) Contestants representing two betting interests, both of the wagering combinations selecting the two dead-heated betting interests, irrespective of order, along with the third-place and fourth-place betting interests shall share in a profit split.  (5) If there is a dead heat for second involving:  (a) Contestants representing three or more betting interests, all of the wagering combinations correctly selecting the winner combined with any of the three betting interests involved in the dead heat for second shall share in a profit split.  (b) Contestants representing two betting interests, all of the wagering combinations correctly selecting the winner, the two dead-heated betting interests, irrespective of order, and the fourth-place betting interest shall share in a profit split.  (6) If there is a dead heat for third, all wagering combinations correctly selecting the first two finishers, in correct sequence, along with any two of the betting interests involved in the dead heat for third shall share in a profit split.  (7) If there is a dead heat for fourth, all wagering combinations correctly selecting the first three finishers, in correct sequence, along with any of the betting interests involved in the dead heat for fourth shall share in a profit split. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
