



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employment Department 
 Chapter 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 LOWER APPEALS 
 471-040-0008 
 Contested Case Proceedings Interpretation for Individuals with a Disability 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule:  (a) An "assistive communication device" means any equipment designed to facilitate communication by an individual with a disability;  (b) An "individual with a disability" means a person who cannot readily understand the proceedings because of deafness or a physical hearing impairment, or cannot communicate in the proceedings because of a physical speaking impairment;  (c) A "qualified interpreter" for an individual with a disability means a person readily able to communicate with the individual with a disability, interpret the proceedings and accurately repeat and interpret the statements of the individual with a disability.  (2) If an individual with a disability is a party or witness in a contested case proceeding:  (a) The administrative law judge shall appoint a qualified interpreter and make available appropriate assistive communication devices whenever it is necessary to interpret the proceedings to, or to interpret the testimony of, the individual with a disability.  (b) No fee shall be charged to the individual with a disability for the appointment of an interpreter or use of an assistive communication device. No fee shall be charged to any person for the appointment of an interpreter or the use of an assistive communication device if appointment or use is made to determine whether the person is disabled for purposes of this rule.  (4) When an interpreter for an individual with a disability is appointed or an assistive communication device is made available under this rule:  (a) The administrative law judge shall appoint a qualified interpreter who is certified under ORS 45.291 if one is available unless, upon request of a party or witness, the administrative law judge deems it appropriate to appoint a qualified interpreter who is not so certified.  (b) The administrative law judge may not appoint any person as an interpreter if the person has a conflict of interest with any of the parties or witnesses, is unable to understand or cannot be understood by the administrative law judge, party or witness, or is unable to work cooperatively with the administrative law judge, the person in need of an interpreter or the representative for that person. If a party or witness is dissatisfied with the interpreter selected by administrative law judge, a substitute interpreter may be used as provided in ORS 45.275(5).  (c) If a party or witness is dissatisfied with the interpreter selected by the administrative law judge, the party or witness may use any certified interpreter except that good cause must be shown for a substitution if the substitution will delay the proceeding.  (d) Fair compensation for the services of an interpreter or the cost of an assistive communication device shall be paid by the agency except, when a substitute interpreter is used for reasons other than good cause, the party requesting the substitute shall bear any additional costs beyond the amount required to pay the original interpreter.  (5) The administrative law judge shall require any interpreter for a person with a disability to state the interpreter's name on the record and whether he or she is certified under ORS 45.291. If the interpreter is not certified under ORS 45.291, the interpreter must state or submit his or her qualifications on the record and must swear or affirm to make a true and impartial interpretation of the proceedings in an understandable manner using the interpreter's best skills and judgment in accordance with the standards and ethics of the interpreter profession.  (6) A person requesting an interpreter for a person with a disability, or assistive communication device for an individual with a disability, must notify the administrative law judge as soon as possible, but no later than 14 calendar days before the proceeding, including the hearing or pre-hearing conference, for which the interpreter or device is requested.  (a) For good cause, the administrative law judge may waive the 14-day advance notice.  (b) The notice to the administrative law judge must include:  (A) The name of the person needing a qualified interpreter or assistive communication device;  (B) The person's status as a party or a witness in the proceeding; and  (C) If the request is in behalf of an individual with a disability, the nature and extent of the individual's physical hearing or speaking impairment, and the type of aural interpreter, or assistive communication device needed or preferred. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 657 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 45.272 - 292 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ED 4-2006, f. 3-3-06, cert. ef. 3-5-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
