



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Patient Safety Commission 
 Chapter 325 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 EARLY DISCUSSION AND RESOLUTION 
 325-035-0005 
 Filing a Notice of Adverse Health Care Incident 
 
 When an adverse health care incident occurs in a health care facility, a location operated by a health care facility, or outside a health care facility and the incident involves a health care provider, the health care facility, health care provider or employer of the health care provider, or a patient, may file a notice with the Commission in accordance with this rule. The filing of a notice enables the parties to engage in Early Discussion and Resolution.  (1) A notice may be filed with the Commission electronically, by telephone, or by submitting a written form prescribed by the Commission that contains the information described in sections (3) or (5) of this rule.  (2) A notice should not be filed with the Commission if:  (a) The incident does not meet the definition of an adverse health care incident;  (b) The adverse health care incident occurred before July 1, 2014;  (c) The adverse health care incident occurred outside of Oregon;  (d) The adverse health care incident did not involve at least one health care facility, location operated by a health care facility, or health care provider; or  (e) The filer is an inmate as defined in ORS 30.642.  (3) A notice filed by a health care facility, a health care provider, or an employer of a health care provider must include, but is not limited to:  (a) Incident date (this may be an approximation);  (b) Incident location; and  (c) Incident description.  (4) A notice filed by a health care facility or an employer of a health care provider shall not include the name of a health care provider.  (5) A notice filed by a patient must include, but is not limited to:  (a) Patient name;  (b) Patient date of birth;  (c) Incident date (this may be an approximation);  (d) Incident description;  (e) Incident location; and  (f) Adequate contact information for any health care facility or health care provider involved in the incident so the Commission may notify the facility or provider that a notice has been filed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Law 2013, Ch. 5, Secs. 2 & 9 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Law 2013, Ch. 5, Secs. 2 & 9 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSC 2-2014, f. 6-12-14, cert. ef. 7-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
