



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION 
 860-030-0011 
 Avoided Cost Data Reporting for Energy Efficiency 
 
 (1) An energy utility that provides customer funds to a third-party nongovernmental entity approved by the Commission to administer energy efficiency measures and programs, market transformation, or the above-market costs of new renewable energy resources in the utility’s service area must submit data necessary to calculate its energy efficiency (EE) avoided costs for energy efficiency measures and programs in the manner and method specified in the Commission-approved reporting form. This form is available at: https://www.puc.state.or.us/Pages/electric_gas/formrpts.aspx. The EE avoided cost report must be submitted on or before October 15 of each year for use in the next energy efficiency program budget cycle. 

 (2) An energy utility must include all data to support the values in its EE avoided cost form. 

 (a) Relevant data may come from the energy utility’s most recent integrated resource plan or integrated resource plan update that has been acknowledged by the Commission, or was used in the energy utility’s most recent general rate case that has been resolved by a final order of the Commission; and 

 (b) An energy utility may include more recent data with a supporting explanation as to why the Commission should approve its avoided costs based on such data. The Commission may approve the use of more recent data at its discretion. 

 (3) At any time, the Commission may update the required data, format and methodology used to report specific values on the Commission-approved EE avoided cost reporting form. Any changes to the form that are approved by the Commission will take effect no less than 60 days following approval. 

 (4) For purposes of this report, unless the context requires otherwise: 

 (a) “Energy Efficiency avoided cost” or “EE avoided cost” means the value to an energy utility of avoiding the use of other resources to provide energy services to its customers through the use of an energy efficiency measure or program. 

 (b) “Energy efficiency measure” or “energy efficiency program” refers to a measure or program that is designed to reduce energy consumption as a result of improved efficiency of energy use. 

 (c) “Energy utility” means a public utility as defined in ORS 757.005 to which these rules apply. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 756.060 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 756.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 5-2019, adopt filed 05/22/2019, effective 05/22/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
