



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 260 CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT FOR OTHER THAN WELL CONSTRUCTORS 
 690-260-0100 
 Liability for Damages Related to Enforcement 
 
 (1) Persons or agencies who have been ordered to take correction action by the Water Resources Commission, and who fail to do so without sufficient cause, are liable for damages. The calculation of damages may include all expenses incurred by the Department after the time for corrective action specified in the notice of violation has passed, that are the result of the person’s or agency’s failure to act. The damages shall not exceed the amount of all expenses incurred by the Water Resources Department in carrying out enforcement duties related to the corrective action. Damages are in addition to the civil penalties assessed for violations.  (2) As used in this rule, “sufficient cause” includes, but is not limited to, the following:  (a) Failure of notice to be given to the appropriate person or agency through no fault of the person or agency; and  (b) Failure to take the corrective action because of conditions or circumstances outside the control of the person or agency.  (3) As used in this rule, “all expenses” include, but are not limited to, the following:  (a) That portion of the salaries and other personnel expenses of the watermaster, assistant watermaster, other Department employee, or fees or legal advisors for time spent on enforcement duties related to corrective action;  (b) The travel and equipment costs of the watermaster, assistant watermaster, other Department employee or legal advisor spent on enforcement duties directly related to corrective action;  (c) The court costs of the Department spent on enforcement duties related to correction action; and  (d) The notice, publishing, copying or other supplies and miscellaneous costs of the Department spent on enforcement duties related to corrective action.  (4) Notices of assessment of damages may be included with the notice of assessment of civil penalty, or be issued at any time after the time for correction has elapsed. A notice of assessment of damages shall be served in person or mailed to the person or agency who is liable for damages. The notice shall include the following:  (a) A reference to the statute, rule, order, permit condition or standard involved in the corrective action;  (b) A short and plain statement of the matters asserted or charged;  (c) A statement of the amount of the damages imposed; and  (d) A statement of the right of the person or agency to request a hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
