



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Office of Student Access and Completion - Chapter 575 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 PRIVATELY FUNDED AWARD PROGRAMS 
 575-060-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 For the purposes of Privately Funded Award Programs which the Commission administers, the following definitions shall be used unless specified otherwise by a donor:  (1) "Academic Year." A period of time, normally beginning in August or September, in which a student would normally be expected to complete at least three-quarters of full-time instruction or the equivalent.  (2) "Commission." The Higher Education Coordinating Commission.  (3) "Cost of Education." The sum of tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation personal expenses, and other allowable costs identified by the U.S. Department of Education.  (4) "Dependent/Independent Student." The definitions of dependent/independent student shall be the definition used for the student aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as amended.  (5) "Generally Accredited Institution." An institution accredited by the Northwest Association of Secondary and Higher Schools.  (6) "Resident of Oregon." Residency is established by virtue of the student (in the case of independent students) or the student's parents (in the case of dependent students) having been in continuous residency in this state for the 12 months preceding enrollment. Residency is immediate in the case of a dependent whose parents have moved to this state for a reason other than the student's enrollment. The residency period may be reduced to the preceding six months in the case of an independent student who moved to this state for a purpose other than education:  (a) A dependent resident student whose Oregon domiciled parent(s) move out-of-state shall retain resident classification as long as such student is continuously enrolled at an Oregon high school or postsecondary institution. Continuous enrollment is defined as completion of an academic year within any 12-month period;  (b) An independent resident student shall retain resident classification as long as the student is continuously enrolled at an Oregon postsecondary institution. Continuous enrollment is defined as completion of an academic year within any 12-month period;  (c) A dependent student whose parent(s) are serving on active duty in the United States Armed Forces outside the State of Oregon shall have residency status determined by the parents' declared "home of record." An independent student who is serving on active duty in the United States Armed Forces outside the State of Oregon shall have residency status determined by the student's declared "home of record";  (d) A student from a state other than Oregon, or from the Trust Territories, who is receiving or is eligible to receive financial assistance through the government of that state or the Trust Territories, shall not be considered a resident of Oregon.  (e) Residence Classification of Members of Oregon Tribes:  (A) Students who are enrolled members of federally recognized tribes of Oregon or who are enrolled members of a federally recognized Native American tribe which had traditional and customary tribal boundaries that included parts of the state of Oregon or which had ceded or reserved lands within the state of Oregon shall be deemed eligible for programs administered by the Higher Education Coordinating Commission that are limited to Oregon residents, regardless of their state of residence.  (B) For purposes of this rule, the federally recognized tribes of Oregon are the following:  (i) Burns Paiute Tribe;  (ii) Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw;  (iii) Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Community of Oregon;  (iv) Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon;  (v) Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation;  (vi) Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Indian Reservation;  (vii) Coquille Indian Tribe;  (viii) Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Indians;  (ix) Klamath Tribes.  (C) For purposes of this rule, the federally recognized Native American tribes which had traditional and customary tribal boundaries that included parts of the state of Oregon or which had ceded or reserved lands within the state of Oregon are:  (i) CALIFORNIA:  (I) Benton Paiute Tribe;  (II) Big Bend Rancheria;  (III) Big Lagoon Rancheria;  (IV) Blue Lake Rancheria;  (V) Bridgeport Indian Colony;  (VI) Cedarville Rancheria;  (VII) Fort Bidwell Indian Tribe;  (VII) Hoopa Valley Tribe;  (IX) Karuk Tribe of California;  (X) Likely Rancheria;  (XI) Lookout Rancheria;  (XII) Lytton Rancheria;  (XIII) Melochundum Band of Tolowa Indians;  (XIV) Montgomery Creek Rancheria;  (XV) Pit River Tribe;  (XVI) Quartz Valley Indian Community;  (XVII) Redding Rancheria;  (XVIII) Roaring Creek Rancheria;  (XIX) Smith River Rancheria;  (XX) Susanville Rancheria;  (XXI) Tolowa-Tututni Tribe;  (XXII) Winnemucca Colony;  (XXIII) XL Ranch;  (XXIV) Yurok Tribe.  (ii) IDAHO:  (I) Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho;  (II) Shoshoni-Bannock Tribes.  (iii) NEVADA:  (I) Duck Valley Shoshone-Paiute Tribes;  (II) Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribe;  (III) Fort McDermitt Paiute-Shoshone Tribe;  (IV) Lovelock Paiute Tribe;  (V) Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe;  (VI) Reno-Sparks Indian Colony;  (VII) Summit Lake Paiute Tribe;  (VIII) Walker River Paiute Tribe;  (IX) Winnemucca Indian Colony;  (X) Yerington Paiute Tribe.  (iv) OKLAHOMA: Modoc Tribe of Oklahoma.  (v) WASHINGTON:  (I) Chehalis Community Council;  (II) Colville Confederated Tribes;  (III) Quinault Indian Nation;  (IV) Shoalwater Bay Tribe;  (V) Yakama Indian Nation.  (D) A student seeking to be deemed eligible under the provisions of this rule shall submit, following procedures prescribed by the Commission, a photocopy of a tribal enrollment card or other acceptable documentation from a tribe which documents tribal membership.  (7) "Community Foundation" means an organization that is:  (a) A community trust or foundation within the meaning of Section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and Section 1.170 A-9(e)(10) of the treasury regulations thereunder;  (b) Exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and  (c) Not a private foundation within the meaning of Section 509 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.325 & 348 & OL 1993 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 348 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSAC 1-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSAC 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 2-8-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSC 1-1998, f. & cert. ef. 3-18-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSC 4-1994, f. & cert. ef. 1-25-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSC 4-1985, f. & ef. 4-17-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
