



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Energy Facility Siting Council - Chapter 345 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND DECOMMISSIONING RULES FOR URANIUM MILLS 
 345-095-0115 
 Violations 
 
 If air or water pollution control mechanisms malfunction or other factors result in emissions or discharges in violation of applicable standards, the certificate holder shall take the following actions:  (1) For a violation of an emission standard or discharge limit administered by an agency other than the Council, the certificate holder shall submit to the Council copies of all notifications required by the agency at the same time the notifications are submitted to the agency.  (2) For a violation of an emission or discharge standard imposed by the Council, the site certificate holder shall:  (a) Notify the Department of Energy of the violation as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence, giving all pertinent facts including the estimated duration of the breakdown.  (b) Promptly initiate and complete appropriate actions to correct the conditions that resulted in the violation.  (c) Cease or discontinue operations of those portions of facility operation contributing to the violation, if the violation is not otherwise corrected within 48 hours after it began, except as required under sections (3) and (4).  (d) Submit to the Council an initial written report of the failure or breakdown within ten days after the occurrence. When the condition has been corrected, the certificate holder shall submit a final written report to the Council describing the causes and the actions taken to prevent similar upsets or breakdown conditions. If more than 45 days elapse between the initial and final reports, the certificate holder shall submit monthly status reports.  (3) The certificate holder shall cease yellowcake drying and packaging operations immediately upon the failure of affected emission control equipment unless alternative licensed emission control equipment, adequate to provide equivalent control of releases, is available and operational.  (4) The certificate holder shall cease the generation of tailings as soon as possible following any dam failure or threatened failure to avoid uncontrolled tailings release inside or outside of the facility and, in the meantime, shall use an unaffected impoundment of sufficient size to contain all tailings generated in that period. The certificate holder shall not restart the generation of tailings without approval by the Council. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.556 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.470 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2007, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 2-1980, f. & ef. 2-28-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
