



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 225 TRANSIT SERVICES ENERGY INCENTIVES PROGRAM 
 330-225-0030 
 Preliminary Certification Application 
 
 (1) Any person may apply for preliminary certification by submitting a complete preliminary certification application. The application must meet requirements provided by statutes, these rules and the current Opportunity Announcement.  (a) The application must be in the form specified in the Opportunity Announcement and these rules.  (b) An applicant must submit a complete application during the opportunity period. For the purposes of this rule, the department considers an application ôsubmittedö when the department receives the application accompanied by the fee specified in these rules. The department will not process applications received outside of an opportunity period.  (c) Only one application will be accepted from each transit services provider for each Opportunity Announcement.  (2) The application must be accompanied by the fee specified in these rules. The department will not process applications received without fee payment.  (3) The department will not accept amendments to applications during the opportunity period. An applicant may withdraw an application and submit a replacement application during the opportunity period. The department will not process fees for applications withdrawn before the end of the opportunity period.  (4) The application must include the following information, unless the department specifies otherwise in the Opportunity Announcement.  (a) The name of the applicant.  (A) If the applicant is a nonprofit entity, the application must include evidence of its nonprofit status.  (B) If the applicant is a public or governmental entity, the application must include written authorization from the entity’s governing body allowing submission of the application. An employee of the applicant may sign the application and attest they have the authority through their employment to apply for and receive transit services tax credits.  (b) The name, address, email address and telephone number of the responsible party for the applicant.  (c) The applicant’s federal tax identification number, which may be shared with the Oregon Department of Revenue to facilitate the administration of state tax law.  (d) A statement verifying that the applicant is the recipient or sub-recipient of state or federal funds, either confirmed or anticipated to be received for the services and period identified in the Opportunity Announcement.  (e) An identification of the types of State or Federal funds received or anticipated for the transit services included in the application, which may be an executive summary of the agreement or line item budget under which the applicant qualifies as a recipient or sub-recipient.  (f) The geographic area or region for which transit services will be provided.  (g) A calculation estimating the vehicle miles reduced (VMR).  (h) The period during which transit services will be provided.  (i) A statement of compliance with applicable state and local regulations and that the applicant will obtain required licenses and permits, including any legally required audits associated with the service.  (j) The number and type of new jobs that will be created by the transit services and the number of existing jobs that will be sustained throughout the operation of the transit services. Job estimates should be submitted in hours. These hours must be directly related to the transit services.  (k) The anticipated costs of providing the transit services.  (l) The amount of any anticipated or received incentives or grants directly related to the transit services.  (m) Current line item budget including labor, operations, maintenance, fuel, administrative costs and revenue that corresponds to the funding for the transit provider’s service.  (n) The dollar amount of tax credit requested by the applicant.  (o) If the applicant intends to include costs for performance of the transit services prior to the project period in the Opportunity Announcement, a written description of the special circumstances that rendered filing of an application prior to the start of performance unreasonable. Pre-qualified waivers may be provided in the Opportunity Announcement; a written description is not required for the period covered by a pre-qualified waiver.  (p) Other information the department considers necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.040 & 469B.347 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469B.320–469B.347, 315.336 & OL 2012 Ch. 45 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 5-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-11-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
