



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Housing and Community Services Department 
 Chapter 813 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 813-003-0031 
 Warranties; Limitation of Liability 
 
 (1) The Department shall make no warranty of any kind, express or implied, with respect to any Intellectual Property — including, but not limited to any warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. Any provision in a Licensing Agreement or any other document, or in any statement by an employee or other agent of the Department, purporting to convey any such warranties from the Department is, and shall be deemed, void as an ultra vires act, being made without authority and in contravention of these rules.  (2) The Department’s liability arising out of or based upon the licensing, sharing or otherwise provided use of Intellectual Property, regardless of the form in which any legal or equitable action may be brought, including without limitation any action in tort, contract, or pursuant to statute, shall not exceed any fee paid to the Department for the licensing, sharing or use of the Intellectual Property.  (3) The department shall have no liability for indirect, incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages, lost profits, or loss of goodwill (even if it has been advised of the possibility of such damages), arising out of or relating to the licensing, sharing, other use of its intellectual property, including without limitation such matters as interruptions, delays, loss of data, loss of profit, interruption of service, loss of business or anticipatory profits. The foregoing warranty and limitations are in lieu of all other warranties, express or implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. Any provision in any licensing agreement or other document, or any statement by an employee or other agent of the department purporting to establish any such liability is, and shall be deemed, void as an ultra vires act, being made without authority and in contravention of these rules.  (4) Any Person who licenses, shares or otherwise uses Intellectual Property from the Department, in doing so, agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Department (consistent with ORS chapter 180) from and against any and all claims, demands, causes of action and liabilities with respect to such license, sharing or other use of the Intellectual Property and/OR any related training or other assistance from the Department with respect to the Intellectual Property.  (5) Any Licensing Agreement or other document providing for the licensing, sharing or other use by a Person of Department Intellectual Property or for training and/or other technical assistance relating to such Intellectual Property, in order to be valid and enforceable against the Department, shall contain language substantially similar to that contained in subparagraphs (1) through (4) of this Section. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 456.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 291.055 & 456.562 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 11-23-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
