



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0610 
 Twin Superfecta Pools 
 
 (1) The Twin Superfecta requires selection of the first four finishers, in their exact order, in each of two designated contests. Each winning ticket for the first Twin Superfecta contest must be exchanged for a free ticket on the second Twin Superfecta contest in order to remain eligible for the second-half Twin Superfecta pool. Such tickets may be exchanged only at attended ticket windows prior to the second Twin Superfecta contest. Winning first half Twin Superfecta tickets will receive both an exchange and a monetary payoff. Both of the designated Twin Superfecta contests shall be included in only one Twin Superfecta pool.  (2) After wagering closes for the first half of the Twin Superfecta and commissions have been deducted from the pool, the net pool shall then be divided into two separate pools: the first half Twin Superfecta pool and the second-half Twin Superfecta pool.  (3) In the first Twin Superfecta contest only, winning wagers shall be determined using the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish for the first Twin Superfecta contest:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first four betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first three betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a single price pool to those whose combination correctly selected the first-place betting interest only; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) The entire Twin Superfecta pool shall be refunded on Twin Superfecta wagers for that contest and the second-half shall be cancelled.  (4) If no first half Twin Superfecta ticket selects the first four finishers of that contest in exact order, winning ticket holders shall not receive any exchange tickets for the second-half Twin Superfecta pool. In such case, the second-half Twin Superfecta pool shall be retained and added to any existing Twin Superfecta carryover pool.  (5) Winning tickets from the first half of the Twin Superfecta shall be exchanged for tickets selecting the first four finishers of the second-half of the Twin Superfecta. The second-half Twin Superfecta pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish for the second Twin Superfecta contest:  (a) As a single price pool, including any existing carryover monies, to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first four betting interests; but if there are no such tickets; then  (b) The entire second-half Twin Trifecta pool for that contest shall be added to any existing carryover monies and retained for the corresponding second-half Twin Superfecta pool of the next performance.  (6) If a winning first half Twin Superfecta ticket is not presented for cashing and exchange prior to the second-half Twin Superfecta contest, the ticket holder may still collect the monetary value associated with the first half Twin Superfecta pool but forfeits all rights to any distribution of the second-half Twin Trifecta pool.  (7) Should a betting interest in the first half of the Twin Superfecta be scratched, those Twin Superfecta tickets including the scratched betting interest shall be refunded.  (8) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Twin Superfecta be scratched, an announcement concerning the scratch shall be made and a reasonable amount of time shall be provided for exchange of tickets that include the scratched betting interest. If tickets have not been exchanged prior to the close of betting for the second Twin Superfecta contest, the ticket holder forfeits all rights to the second-half Twin Superfecta pool.  (9) If, due to a late scratch, the number of betting interests in the second-half of the Twin Superfecta is reduced to fewer than the minimum, all exchange tickets and outstanding first half winning tickets shall be entitled to the second-half Twin Superfecta pool for that contest as a single price pool, but not the Twin Superfecta carryover.  (10) If there is a dead heat or multiple dead heats in either the first- or second-half of the Twin Superfecta, all Twin Superfecta tickets selecting the correct order of finish, counting a betting interest involved in a dead heat as finishing in any dead-heated position, shall be a winner. In the case of a dead heat occurring in:  (a) The first half of the Twin Superfecta, the payoff shall be calculated as a profit split.  (b) The second-half of the Twin Superfecta, the payoff shall be calculated as a single price pool.  (11) If the either of the Twin Superfecta contests are cancelled prior to the first Twin Superfecta contest, or the first Twin Superfecta contest is declared “no contest,” the entire Twin Superfecta pool shall be refunded on Twin Superfecta wagers for that contest and the second-half shall be cancelled.  (12) If the second-half Twin Superfecta contest is cancelled or declared “no contest,” all exchange tickets and outstanding first half winning Twin Superfecta tickets shall be entitled to the net Twin Superfecta pool for that contest as a single price pool, but not the Twin Superfecta carryover. If there are no such tickets, the net Twin Superfecta pool shall be distributed as described in subsection (3) of the Twin Superfecta rules.  (13) The Twin-Superfecta carryover may be capped at a designated level approved by the commission so that if, at the close of any performance, the amount in the Twin-Superfecta carryover equals or exceeds the designated cap, the Twin-Superfecta carryover will be frozen until it is won or distributed under other provisions of this rule. After the second-half Twin Superfecta carryover is frozen, 100 percent of the net Twin Superfecta pool for each individual contest shall be distributed to winners of the first half of the Twin Superfecta pool.  (14) A written request for permission to distribute the Twin Superfecta carryover on a specific performance may be submitted to the commission. The request must contain justification for the distribution, an explanation of the benefit to be derived, and the intended date and performance for the distribution.  (15) Should the Twin Superfecta carryover be designated for distribution on a specified date and performance, the following precedence will be followed in determining winning tickets for the second-half of the Twin Superfecta after completion of the first half of the Twin Superfecta:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first four betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first three betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a single price pool to those whose combination correctly selected the first-place betting interest only; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) As a single price pool to holders of valid exchange tickets;  (f) As a single price pool to holders of outstanding first half winning tickets.  (16) Contrary to subsection (4) of the Twin Superfecta rules, during a performance designated to distribute the Twin Superfecta carryover, exchange tickets will be issued for those combinations selecting the greatest number of betting interests in their correct order of finish for the first half of the Twin Superfecta. If there are no wagers correctly selecting the first-, second-, third-, and fourth-place finishers, in their exact order, then exchange tickets shall be issued for combinations correctly selecting the first-, second-, and third-place betting interests. If there are no wagers correctly selecting the first-, second-, and third-place finishers, in their exact order, then exchange tickets shall be issued for combinations correctly selecting the first- and second-place betting interests. If there are no wagers correctly selecting the first- and second-place finishers, in their exact order, then exchange tickets shall be issued for combinations correctly selecting the first-place betting interest only. If there are no wagers selecting the first-place betting interest only in the first half of the Twin Superfecta, all first half tickets will become winners and will receive 100 percent of that day’s net Twin Superfecta pool and any existing Twin Superfecta carryover as a single price pool.  (17) The Twin Superfecta carryover shall be designated for distribution on a specified date and performance only under the following circumstances:  (a) Upon written approval from the commission as provided in subsection (15) of the Twin Superfecta rules.  (b) Upon written approval from the commission when there is a change in the carryover cap or when the Twin Superfecta is discontinued.  (c) On the closing performance of the meet or split meet.  (18) If, for any reason, the Twin Superfecta carryover must be held over to the corresponding Twin Superfecta pool of a subsequent meet, the carryover shall be deposited in an interest bearing account approved by the commission. The Twin Superfecta carryover plus accrued interest shall then be added to the second-half Twin Superfecta pool of the following meet on a date and performance so designated by the commission.  (19) Providing information to any person regarding covered combinations, amounts wagered on specific combinations, number of tickets sold, or number of valid exchange tickets is prohibited. This shall not prohibit necessary communication between totalizator and pari-mutuel department employees for processing of pool data.  (20) The race meet licensee must obtain written approval from the commission concerning the scheduling of Twin Superfecta contests, the percentages of the net pool added to the first half pool and second-half pool, and the amount of any cap to be set on the carryover. Any changes to the approved Twin Superfecta format require prior approval from the commission. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
