



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 PRODUCE STANDARDS 
 603-051-0777 
 Standards of Identity 
 
 (1) The standard of identity for olive oil products are:  (a) “Olive oil” is the oil obtained solely from the fruit of the olive tree (Olea europaea L.), to the exclusion of oils obtained using solvents or re-esterification processes and of any mixture with oils of other kinds and will meet the minimum requirements of Table I in the federal Act.  (A) Types of olive oil are:  (i) Olive oil (T);  (ii) Refined Olive Oil.  (b) “Virgin olive oils” are the oils obtained from the fruit of the olive tree solely by mechanical or other physical means under conditions, including thermal conditions, that do not lead to alterations in the oil, and which have not undergone any treatment other than washing, decantation, centrifugation, and filtration and will meet the minimum requirements of Table I in the federal Act. No additives of any kind are permitted.  (A) Types of virgin olive oil are:  (i) Extra virgin olive oil;  (ii) Virgin olive oil;  (iii) Lampante virgin olive oil. Lampante virgin olive oil may also be called “Virgin olive oil not fit for human consumption without further processing”.  (c) “Olive-pomace oil” is the oil obtained by treating olive pomace with solvents or other physical treatments, to the exclusion of oils obtained by synthetic processes and mixture with oils of other kinds and will meet the minimum requirements of Table I in the federal Act. Alpha-tocopherol is permitted to restore natural tocopherol lost in the refining process for refined olive pomace and olive-pomace oil. Maximum level: 200 mg/kg of total alpha-tocopherol is permitted in the final product.  (A) Types of olive-pomace oil are:  (i) Olive-pomace oil;  (ii) Refined olive-pomace oil;  (iii) Crude olive-pomace oil.  (2) For purposes of this section, “ordinary virgin oil” in ORS 616.761 has the same meaning as “lampante virgin olive oil” as defined in the federal Act.  (3) A person may not prepare, mix, blend, or express olive pomace or meats with any bland fixed oil other than olive oil.  (4) A person may not use artificial coloring or flavoring in the manufacture or blending of olive oil or olive-pomace oil.  (5) “Flavored olive oil” is olive oil meeting the standard of identity in section (1) and grade defined in the federal Act that has been mixed with a flavoring or olives that are processed into oil with any fruit, vegetable, nut, seed, or spice and the product resulting from either process contains not less than 90 percent olive oil meeting the standard of identity in section (1) and grade defined the federal Act. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190, 616.230 & 616.761 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 616.761 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
