



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 VACCINE EDUCATION AND PRIORITIZATION PLAN 
 333-048-0020 
 Plan Development 
 
 (1) When the State Public Health Officer declares a vaccine shortage emergency, the Division will adopt a Vaccine Education and Prioritization Plan specific for that vaccine shortage.  (2) The plan will include, but is not limited to:  (a) A timeline that lists when specific vaccine administration activities can be initiated by providers and/or sponsors;  (b) The risk categories, or sub-categories, that will be covered with the vaccine that is available based on categories developed and/or adopted by the Division;  (c) The role of the local public health authorities in assuring that services are available to those in the designated risk categories.  (3) The plan will be published and distributed to providers within forty-five days of a declared vaccine shortage emergency.  (4) In situations where a vaccine shortage changes after the finalized plan has been distributed, the prioritized risk categories can be redefined by publishing a written supplement to the plan.  (5) In cases of a vaccine shortage emergency as determined by the State Public Health Officer, the local public health authority may facilitate the voluntary sharing of vaccine in their community or delegate that responsibility to a community partner. State-supplied vaccine will be shared only within guidelines provided by the Division.  (6) The Vaccine Education and Prioritization Plan will remain in effect until notification is made by the State Public Health Officer, or unless specified in the plan. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHD 27-2001, f. & cert. ef. 12-4-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
