



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-0220 
 Medical Services and First Aid 
 
 (1) The employer must develop and implement an emergency medical plan to ensure emergency medical service to employees with major illnesses and injuries.  (2) All employees must be knowledgeable concerning the emergency care and emergency medical treatment plan.  (3) All personnel employed in forest activities must be trained in first aid and CPR as follows:  (a) In a language they understand.  (b) At least every 2 years or as required by a nationally recognized first aid training provider.  (c) All supervisors and all cutters must be first aid and CPR trained prior to their initial assignment.  (d) All new employees, other than supervisors and cutters, that are not first aid and CPR trained prior to their initial assignment must receive a first aid and CPR briefing.  (e) All new employees must receive first aid and CPR training within 6 months of being hired.  (f) For the initial start-up of a side or operation where new employees are assigned, at least one out of every five crew members must be first aid and CPR trained before work starts.  NOTE 1: Log truck drivers and watchers are not required to receive first aid and CPR training if they are not involved with falling, yarding or processing logs.  NOTE 2: See the Oregon OSHA Division 2, Subdivision 2/Z, Toxic and Hazardous Substances, §1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens, if an employee comes into contact with blood or other potentially infectious material as the result of providing first aid.  (4) Each worksite must have at least one serviceable and operable two-way radio, phone or radio/phone combination available to reach ambulance service. Citizens' band radios are permitted only as a secondary means of communication.  NOTE: This rule does not apply to road graders, log and dump trucks, crew buses and similar mobile equipment that service locations where a communication unit is already available (e.g., yarders, loaders).  (5) Each operating site or crew in a communication “dead” area must have a mobile communication unit or advance plans to relay emergency calls through another site operating in the vicinity.  (6) At worksites of more than one day duration, the employer must have available near the worksite communication device(s):  (a) Written land directions to the worksite.  (b) The worksite location by Township, Range and Section.  (7) When air evacuation is available to any worksite of more than one day duration, the employer must have available, near the worksite communication device(s), the:  (a) Name and phone number of the air evacuation service.  (b) Worksite location by latitude and longitude or township, range and section as required by the air service.  (8) The employer must assure that transportation is always available to:  (a) A point where an ambulance can be met; or  (b) The nearest suitable medical facility.  (9) Vehicles used for the transportation of personnel must carry a first aid kit:  (a) Suitable for the number of passengers customarily transported.  (b) Suitable for the types of injuries that could occur.  (c) Located where they are readily available to the driver or crew.  (10) First aid kits must be provided at each worksite.  (11) Worksite first aid kits must contain the following minimum supplies at all times:  (a) Eight gauze pads individually wrapped (at least 4 inches by 4 inches in size);  (b) Two large gauze pads that are or can be folded to an approximate size of 8 inches by 10 inches or the equivalent;  (c) One box adhesive bandages;  (d) One package gauze roller bandage at least 2 inches wide or the equivalent;  (e) Two triangular bandages;  (f) Wound-cleaning agent, such as sealed, moistened towelettes, or soap and water;  (g) Scissors;  (h) One stretcher or equivalent weatherproof litter at any three or more person worksite, and at all logging sites;  (i) Two blankets, one of which must provide the strength and insulation equivalent to a wool blanket;  (j) Latex gloves;  (k) Mouth barrier;  (l) Tweezers;  (m) Adhesive tape;  (n) Two elastic wraps; and  (o) Splint material.  NOTE: The quantities of each item are minimum amounts. Bulk pack or unit pack supplies are acceptable. First aid supplies from other states may be acceptable if such supplies are the reasonable equivalent of those required by this rule.  (12) The employer also may have the number and content of first aid kits reviewed and approved annually by a health care provider.  (13) First aid supplies must be regularly inspected and replenished as needed.  (14) First aid supplies must be stored in containers adequate to protect the contents from damage, deterioration or contamination.  (a) The containers must be clearly marked “First Aid.”  (b) The container must not be locked, but may be sealed.  (c) Soap and water, stretcher, or basket and blankets may be stored separately, but must be near or with the first aid supplies.  (15) All employees must be informed of the location of first aid supplies. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 3-2004, f. & cert. ef. 6-7-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
