



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 240 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, ALTERATION, CONVERSION AND ABANDONMENT OF MONITORING WELLS, GEOTECHNICAL HOLES AND OTHER HOLES IN OREGON 
 690-240-0240 
 Approved Course List/Course Approval and Assignment of CECs 
 
 (1) The Department shall maintain a Continuing Education Committee-approved list of courses. The list shall include, but not be limited to, the course title, class location and date, cost, (if applicable), and CECs assigned.  (2) The Continuing Education Committee shall evaluate all courses related to continuing education for well constructors and may assign CECs. The Continuing Education Committee shall notify the course sponsor in writing of the results of their evaluation of the course material. The following criteria may be utilized to evaluate and assign CECs:  (a) Course agenda and how well the subject relates to monitoring well construction and other borings regulated by the Department;  (b) Instructor qualifications;  (c) Subject difficulty;  (d) Student course evaluations, if applicable; and  (e) Other information as appropriate.  (3) A licensee who is also the instructor of an approved continuing education course shall be entitled to double CECs for that course. A licensee who is also the instructor of an approved course, may only receive CECs for the course once during a single renewal period, regardless of the number of times a course is presented.  (4) The following courses do not require pre-approval by the Continuing Education Committee:  (a) First Aid and CPR, provided the instructor is certified by the American Red Cross, or has certification accepted by the American Red Cross;  (b) Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) approved Hazardous Materials Training; and  (c) OSHA approved courses pertaining to the well construction industry. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 537 & 742 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 537 & 742 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-2003, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
