



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0040 
 Teacher Leader: Program Standards 
 
 (1) Candidates in Teacher Leader programs will be prepared to meet the following (7) domains of Teacher Leader knowledge and skills. The completion of the program does not qualify a teacher for the Teacher Leader license. The teacher must qualify for the license under the educational leadership requirements of the Teacher Leader License as provided in OAR 584-210-0050.  (2) Domain 1: Understanding Adults as Learners to Support Professional Learning Communities: The teacher leader understands how adults acquire and apply knowledge and uses this information to promote a culture of shared accountability for school outcomes that maximizes teacher effectiveness, promotes collaboration, enlists colleagues to be part of a leadership team, and drives continuous improvement in instruction and student learning.  (3) Domain 2: Accessing and Using Research to Improve Practice and Student Learning: The teacher leader understands how research creates new knowledge, informs policies and practices and improves teaching and learning. The teacher leader models and facilitates the use of systematic inquiry as a critical component of teachers’ ongoing learning and development.  (4) Domain 3: Promoting Professional Learning for Continuous Improvement: The teacher leader understands the constantly evolving nature of teaching and learning, established and emerging technologies, and the school community. The teacher leader uses this knowledge to promote, design, and facilitate job-embedded professional learning aligned with school improvement goals.  (5) Domain 4: Facilitating Improvements in Instruction and Student Learning: The teacher leader demonstrates a deep understanding of the teaching and learning processes and uses this knowledge to advance the professional skills of colleagues by being a continuous learner, modeling reflective practice based on student results, and working collaboratively with colleagues to ensure instructional practices are aligned to a shared vision, mission, and goals.  (6) Domain 5: Using Assessments and Data for School and District Improvement: The teacher leader is knowledgeable about current research on assessment methods, designing and/or selecting effective formative and summative assessment practices and use of assessment data to make informed decisions that improve student learning; and uses this knowledge to promote appropriate strategies that support continuous and sustainable organizational improvement.  (7) Domain 6: Improving Outreach and Collaboration with Families and Community: The teacher leader understands that families, cultures, and communities have a significant impact on educational processes and student achievement and uses this knowledge to promote frequent and more effective outreach with families, community members, business and community leaders and other stakeholders in the education system.  (8) Domain 7: Advocating for Student Learning and the Profession. The teacher leader understands how educational policy is made at the local, state, and national level as well as the roles of school leaders, boards of education, legislators, and other stakeholders in formulating those policies; and uses this knowledge to advocate for student needs and for practices that support effective teaching and increase student learning and to serve as an individual of influence and respect within the school, community and profession. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430; 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 13-2015(Temp), f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
