



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 SALE OF FOREST PRODUCTS FROM LANDS OWNED OR MANAGED BY THE STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY 
 629-029-0005 
 Sale Contract Definitions 
 
 (1) Areas of Operations: The locations where a PURCHASER performs the operations described in a contract.  (2) Authorized Representative: The State Forester and the deputy, assistants and employees of the forester, acting under direction of the State Board of Forestry.  (3) Bid: A competitive offer, which is binding on the bidder, in which price, delivery (or project completion) and conformance with specifications and the requirements of the Invitation to Bid will be the predominant award criteria.  (4) Bidder: A person, business, corporation, or other entity recognized by the STATE that submits a bid to enter into a contract with the STATE to purchase forest products, and that certifies that the timber will be harvested.  (5) Contract: The entire written agreement between the parties, including but not limited to the Notice of Timber Sale; Invitation to Bid or Request for Proposal; Instructions to Bidders, specifications, terms, and conditions contained in the prospectus; Exhibits; Operations Plan; change notices; if any; and the accepted Form of Proposal.  (6) Contract Award: The decision of the STATE to award the contract.  (7) Contracting Officer: The State Forester and the deputy, assistants and employees of the forester, acting under direction of the State Board of Forestry.  (8) Forest Products: Harvested timber and/or other products harvested from State Forest lands.  (9) MBF: Thousand Board Feet. The standard abbreviation for 1,000 board feet of standing timber, logs, or lumber. An industry standard of measurement.  (10) Operations: All the activities conducted by a PURCHASER under a contract, including project work, logging, or post harvest activities; or the furnishing of all materials, equipment, labor, and incidentals necessary to successfully complete any individual item or the entire contract.  (11) Project Location: The points or areas designated as such on a contract Exhibit A and located on the ground by reference to points, stations, natural land features, improvements, or area boundary signs.  (12) PURCHASER: Successful high bidder or authorized representative of bidder on a forest products sale contract.  (13) STATE: The Oregon Department of Forestry, State Forester, or a duly Authorized Representative of the State Forester.  (14) Timber Sale Area: The area or areas designated as such on a contract Exhibit A and located on the ground by reference to legal subdivisions, monuments, natural land features, improvements, or sale boundary signs. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 1-1997, f. 9-4-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
