



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-6400 
 Emergency Dispensing by a Nurse 
 
 A hospital may provide for the emergency dispensing of a drug to an outpatient who is under the care of a practitioner who is a member of the hospital medical staff, when there is a legitimate medical need as described in hospital policies and procedures.  (1) A designated registered nurse may dispense a drug to an outpatient subject to the following:  (a) There is a prescription from a practitioner authorized to prescribe the drug or a verbal order that the nurse has reduced to writing. A practitioner who issues a verbal order or prescription must send a written prescription to the hospital pharmacy within seven days;  (b) The drug is in a manufacturer’s bulk unit-of-use, such as an inhaler, or hospital pre-pack that has been labeled by the pharmacy with;  (A) Name of drug, strength, and number of units. When a generic name is used, the label must also contain the name of the manufacturer or distributor;  (B) Accessory cautionary information as required for patient safety;  (C) Product identification label if the drug is not in unit-of-use packaging;  (D) An expiration date after which the patient should not use the drug;  (E) Name, address and phone number of the hospital pharmacy.  (c) The following information must be added to the drug container by the nurse before dispensing to the patient:  (A) Name of patient;  (B) Directions for use by the patient;  (C) Date of issue;  (D) Unique identifying number;  (E) Name of prescribing practitioner;  (F) Initials of the dispensing nurse or practitioner.  (d) The patient must be given instructions on the use and precautions for taking the drug;  (e) A prescription must be completed by the practitioner or nurse. This prescription must contain:  (A) Name of patient;  (B) Date of issuance;  (C) Name and strength of drug distributed;  (D) Units issued;  (E) Name of practitioner and initials of dispensing nurse;  (F) Instructions given to the patient.  (f) Any additional information required by state and federal laws and regulations for the distribution of a drug to an outpatient.  (2) The patient may not be given more than an emergency supply, as that is defined in the hospital policy and procedures.  (3) The pharmacist must verify, document and date the original prescription. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155 & 689.505 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 3-2010, f. 4-29-10, cert. ef. 4-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
