



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 96 SOLID WASTE: PERMITS SPECIAL RULES FOR SELECTED SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES, WASTE TIRE STORAGE SITES AND WASTE TIRE CARRIERS 
 340-096-0170 
 Special Rules Pertaining to Conversion Technology: Performance Standards 
 
 (1) Conversion technology facilities must be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that does not cause a discharge of process water, leachate or stormwater from the facility to surface water, except when discharged in compliance with a discharge permit issued by the department.  (2) Conversion technology facilities that collect and dispose of process water, leachate or stormwater in engineered structures must comply with the same requirements that apply to compost facilities in OAR 340-096-0130, unless the structure is constructed and operated pursuant to a permit issued under ORS 468B.050.  (3) Conversion technology facilities must be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that is not likely to cause an adverse impact to groundwater under OAR 340 Division 40. All conversion technology facilities proposing to use infiltration in soil as a method for managing leachate or stormwater must comply with the same groundwater protection requirements that apply to compost facilities in OAR 340-096-0120.  (4) Conversion technology facilities must be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that, to the greatest extent practicable and consistent with proper facility design and operation, controls and minimizes odors and dust that are likely to cause adverse impacts outside the boundaries of the facility.  (5) Conversion technology facilities must be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that controls or prevents propagation, harborage, or attraction of vectors, including but not limited to, rats, birds, and flies.  (6) Conversion technology facilities that produce, collect and store oil, biogas or syngases must be designed, constructed, and operated in accordance with state and local fire regulations in a manner that prevents fire and explosions.  (7) Conversion technology facilities must implement procedures as necessary to restrict incoming material to prevent receipt of, or to separate out, materials that are incompatible with the conversion technology being used, or that would pose human health or environmental risks when incorporated into the products of the conversion technology.  (8) Conversion technology facilities must provide adequate training to staff to properly operate the technology and to recognize and exclude inappropriate incoming materials.  (9) Conversion technology facilities must use incoming feedstocks in a reasonable length of time, not storing incoming feedstocks longer than six months on site, unless a longer time is approved in advance by the department in writing. Incoming feedstocks must be accepted, stored, managed and processed to avoid causing potential impact to human health or the environment.  (10) Conversion technology facilities must provide for the removal of finished products and wastes from the facility within a reasonable length of time, but not later than six months after processing of incoming feedstock by the facility has begun, unless a longer time is approved in advance by the department in writing. Finished products must be stored and managed on site to prevent impacts to human health or the environment.  (11) Conversion technology facilities must properly characterize, store, label, manage and dispose of wastes. Waste streams must be characterized in accordance with hazardous waste rules to ensure proper disposal.  (12) Hazardous substances in the material produced by a conversion technology facility must meet at least one of the two criteria listed in this section:  (a) They do not significantly exceed the concentration in a comparable raw material or commercial product, or  (b) They will not exceed acceptable risk levels when used in ways the material may reasonably be expected to be used.  (13) Conversion technology facilities must allow the department access to the facility and to facility records in order to determine compliance with these rules. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 459.045, 459A.025 & 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 459.005, 459.015 & 459.205 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 7-2013, f. & cert. ef. 8-29-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
