



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 217 REQUIREMENT FOR PUMP TESTING  OF NONEXEMPT WELLS 
 690-217-0045 
 Acceptable Techniques for Measurement of Water Level and Discharge 
 
 (1) Water level measurements shall be taken by one of the following methods:  (a) An electric water level measuring tape specifically designed for this purpose. Depth markings on the tape shall be no more than five feet apart, and shall be accurate to 0.5 percent. All water level measurements shall be reported to a precision of at least one-tenth of a foot;  (b) A calibrated electronic pressure transducer coupled with an appropriate output device or data logger. The accuracy and precision of the transducer and output device or data logger shall meet those outlined in subsection (1)(a) of this rule for electric water level measuring tapes. If an electronic pressure transducer is used for water level measurement, the manufacturer’s name, the serial number and calibration date of the device must be supplied in the pump test report;  (c) An air line and pressure gauge. Air line measurements shall be accepted only where water levels deeper than 300 feet below ground level are encountered or expected. Air line accuracy shall be verified by at least one water level measurement with an electric water level measuring tape;  (d) An acoustic sounding device designed and manufactured specifically for measuring the depth to water in walls;  (e) The wetted steel tape method. This method may be used for static water level measurements only.  (2) Measurements of air line pressure of shut-in pressure of flowing artesian wells shall be with a calibrated pressure gauge with marked intervals of one PSI or less.  (3) Discharge from the pump shall be physically measured by a standard and acceptable method. In no case will visually estimated flow rates be accepted. Acceptable methods include:  (a) A properly installed flow meter which is functional and calibrated within reasonable limits;  (b) A properly installed weir or flume;  (c) A properly installed calibrated orifice plate and manometer;  (d) Known volume/time calculations (including calibrated bucket and stopwatch up to 60 gallons per minute); and  (e) Properly used ultrasonic flow measuring devices. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 537 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 25-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-20-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
