



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 AMATEUR ATHLETIC ORGANIZATIONS 
 230-150-0060 
 Policies, Rules and Procedures 
 
 (1) An applicant for approval as an AAO must provide its policies and procedures used to ensure the enforcement of administrative rules when providing supervision of an event.  These include: 

 (a)The criteria for assigning officials at an event; 

 (b) Information concerning training programs or certifications the applicant requires of officials it assigns to an event; 

 (c) A procedure for approving or denying bouts; 

 (d) A procedure for ensuring the amateur unarmed combat sports competitors have the required medical documents required under this rule; 

 (e) A procedure to ensure that hand wraps and gloves have been approved by the AAO before an amateur unarmed combat sports competitor participates in a bout. 

 (2) A procedure regarding the determination of the: 

 (a) Medical suspension issued by medical personnel assigned to an event sanctioned by an AAO against an amateur unarmed combat sports competitor; 

 (b) Administrative suspensions that an AAO may issue against an amateur unarmed combat sports competitor. 

 (3) Any procedures for the administration of drug testing (if applicable). 

 (4) An AAO applicant may be denied approval if the policies, rules and procedures submitted under this rule are insufficient to ensure the safety of amateur unarmed combat sports competitors or the integrity of amateur unarmed combat sports. 

 (5) In determining the sufficiency of an applicant’s policies, rules and procedures paramount consideration will be given to whether the policies, rules and procedures are likely to adequately ensure the: 

 (a) Safety of the amateur unarmed combat sports competitors; 

 (b) Integrity of amateur unarmed combat sports competition. 

 (6) An amateur athletic organization must submit amendments of the policies, rules and procedures to the Administrator for approval immediately upon amendment. 

 (7) Failure of an AAO to follow the policies, rules and procedures submitted to and approved by the Administrator may result in disciplinary action against the AAO under ORS 463 and this rule. 

 (8) This rule does not apply to amateur boxing events sanctioned by USA Boxing. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL2017 CH235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL2017 CH235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 15-2018, adopt filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
