



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 CONDUCT OF BOUT - BOXING 
 230-080-0510 
 Time Considerations for Fouls 
 
 (1) Low Blow Foul 

 A fighter who has been struck with a low blow is allowed up to five minutes to recover from the foul as long as in the opinion of medical personnel, the competitor may continue on in the bout.  If the competitor is unable to continue before the five minutes of time has expired, the referee shall as soon as practical restart the bout.  If the competitor goes over the five (5) minute time allotment the bout cannot be restarted and the bout must come to an end with the outcome determined by the round and time in which the fight was stopped. 

 (2) Non-low Blow Foul 

 (a) If a bout is stopped because of an accidental foul, the referee shall determine whether the competitor has been fouled can continue or not.  If the competitors’ chance of winning has not been seriously jeopardized as a result of the foul and if the found did not involve a concussive impact to the head of the competitor who has been fouled, the referee may order the bout continued after a recuperative interval of not more than five (5) minutes.  Immediately after separating the competitors, the referee shall inform an authorized representative of the superintendent of his determination that the foul was accidental.   

 (b) If a competitor is fouled by a blow that the referee deems illegal, the referee should stop the action and call for time.  The referee may take the injured competitor to medical personnel and have them examine and determine the competitor’s ability to return to the bout.  Medical Personnel has up to five (5) minutes to make their determination.  If the competitor is able to continue the bout, the referee shall as soon as practical restart the bout.  However, unlike the low blow foul rule, the competitor does not have up to five (5) minutes to use at their discretion. 

 (c) For a foul other than a low blow, the fouled competitor is not guaranteed five (5) minutes for recovery time.  If deemed not fit to continue by the referee or Medical Personnel but some of the five minute foul time is still remaining, the competitor cannot avail themselves of the remaining time. 

 (d) If the referee stops the bout and employs the use of medical personnel, the examination shall not exceed five (5) minutes.  If five (5) minutes is exceeded, the bout cannot be re-started and the bout must end. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 8-2018, adopt filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
