



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 CONSOLIDATED PERMITTING OF MINING OPERATIONS 
 632-037-0030 
 Public Notice Procedure 
 
 (1) Whenever public notice is required by ORS 517.952 to 517.989 or these rules, the Department shall:  (a) Mail a written notice to all permitting and cooperating agencies and affected federal and local agencies;  (b) Mail a written notice to each owner of property located within one-half mile of the perimeter of the proposed permit area of the mining operation. As used in this paragraph, "owner" means the owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of real property of record as shown on the last available complete tax assessment roll;  (c) Mail a written notice to persons on the master list;  (d) Mail a written notice to unpatented mineral claimants for claims that are filed with the county and are located within one-half mile of the perimeter of the proposed permit area of the mining operation; and  (e) Cause to be published a notice in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the state and in at least one local newspaper of general circulation in the county or counties in which the proposed mining permit area is located. A notice by publication shall be given at least once each week for two weeks immediately preceding an action by the Department or following an action by an applicant that requires public notice under ORS 517.952 to 517.989 or these rules. In the event that a local newspaper is not published on a weekly basis, the notice by publication shall be given in a manner that is consistent with the publishing schedule of a local newspaper.  (2) The notice provided pursuant to this section shall satisfy any notice requirement of an individual permitting or cooperating agency related to a permit included in the consolidated application process.  (3) A notice given pursuant to section (1) of this rule shall include:  (a) The name, address and telephone number of the Department and all permitting and cooperating agencies, and, if applicable, the local government responsible for land use approval, including a contact person for each agency when known;  (b) The name and address of the applicant;  (c) The location of the proposed mining operation;  (d) A description of the action or proposed action;  (e) The location or locations where interested persons may obtain further information and inspect and copy relevant forms and documents;  (f) A statement describing any opportunities and requirements for public comment and the date, time and location of any public meeting or hearing; and  (g) Any other information required by ORS 517.952 to 517.989 or these rules.  (4)(a) The Department shall establish a master list for each proposed mining operation. To establish a master list, the Department shall request from each permitting and cooperating agency a list of the names and addresses of persons who have expressed interest in a proposed mining operation;  (b) The Department may charge the addressee on the master mailing list a fee of $5 to defray the costs of maintaining the master list and mailing public notices to persons on the master list. Any person may be added to the master list by mailing or delivering a written request and, if required, the fee to the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 517.750 - 517.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.959 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DGMI 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 2-1991, f. & cert. ef. 10-11-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
