



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 SAFETY STANDARDS 
 860-024-0011 
 Inspections of Electric Supply and Communication Facilities
 
 
 (1) An Operator of electric supply facilities or an Operator of communication facilities must: 

 (a) Construct, operate, and maintain its facilities in compliance with the Commission Safety Rules; and 

 (b) Conduct detailed inspections of its overhead facilities to identify violations of the Commission Safety Rules. 

 (A) The maximum interval between detailed inspections is ten years, with a recommended inspection rate of ten percent of overhead facilities per year. During the fifth year of the inspection cycle, the Operator must: 

 (i) Report to the Commission that 50 percent or more of its total facilities have been inspected pursuant to this rule; or 

 (ii) Report to the Commission that less than 50 percent of its total facilities have been inspected pursuant to this rule and provide a plan for Commission approval to inspect the remaining percentage within the next five years. The Commission may modify the plan or impose conditions to ensure sufficient inspection for safety purposes. 

 (B) Detailed inspections include, but are not limited to, visual checks, pole test and treat programs (only required for pole Owners) or practical tests of all facilities, to the extent required to identify violations of Commission Safety Rules. Where facilities are exposed to extraordinary conditions (including High Fires Risk Zones) or when an Operator has demonstrated a pattern of non-compliance with Commission Safety Rules, the Commission may require a shorter interval between inspections. 

 (c) Conduct detailed facility inspections of its underground facilities on a ten-year maximum cycle, with a recommended inspection rate of 10 percent of underground facilities per year. 

 (d) Maintain adequate written records of policies, plans and schedules to show that inspections and corrections are being carried out in compliance with this rule and OAR 860-024-0012. Each Operator must make these records available to the Commission upon its request. 

 (2) Each Operator of electric supply facilities must: 

 (a) Designate an annual geographic area (including High Fire Risk Zones if identified by Operators of electric supply facilities) to be inspected pursuant to subsection (1)(b) of this rule within its service territory; 

 (b) Provide timely notice of the designation of the annual geographic area to all Owners and Occupants. The annual coverage areas for the entire program must be made available in advance and in sufficient detail to allow all Operators with facilities in that service territory to plan needed inspection and correction tasks. Unless the parties otherwise agree, Operators must be notified of any changes to the established annual geographic area designation no later than 12 months before the start of the next year’s inspection. For High Fire Risk Zones, Operators must be notified of any changes to the designation of a High Fire Risk Zone no later than 60 days before the start of the year's inspection; and 

 (c) Perform routine safety patrols of overhead electric supply lines and accessible facilities for hazards consistent with Good Utility Practice and of detection quality materially equivalent to onsite inspection. The maximum interval between safety patrols is two years, with a recommended rate of 50 percent of lines and facilities per year. 

 (d) Inspect electric supply stations on a 45 day maximum schedule. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, ORS 756, ORS 757 & ORS 759 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.035 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2022, amend filed 09/22/2022, effective 09/22/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 9-2006, f. & cert. ef. 9-28-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
