



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 COMMERCIAL SHELLFISH AND MARINE INVERTEBRATE FISHERIES 
 635-005-0340 
 Transferability of Bay Clam Dive Permits 
 
 (1) Any transfer of a Bay Clam Dive Permit without the written consent of each person holding a security interest in such vessel is void.  (2) Permits may be transferred as follows:  (a) The permittee may request the Department to transfer, to a replacement vessel that is owned by the same person that owns the vessel to which the Bay Clam Dive Permit was originally issued, a Bay Clam Dive Permit up to two times per calendar year;  (b) In the event of the death of a Bay Clam Dive Permit holder, the permit of the deceased may be issued to an immediate family member upon request, validated by the Department’s receipt of a copy of the death certificate and the original permit. “Immediate family member” means a Bay Clam Dive Permit holder's spouse, domestic partner, children, father, mother, brother, sister, stepchildren, and grandchildren; or  (c) The Department may authorize transfer of a Bay Clam Dive Permit for up to 90 days upon petition by the permittee on the form provided by the Department due to a medical condition.  (A) The Department's decision to allow a transfer shall be based on a finding that the current permit holder is unable to participate in the fishery due to injury or illness which prevents diving, based on medical evidence submitted by the permit holder, and such other evidence the Department considers reliable.  (B) At the end of the transfer period, the Department may reinstate the Bay Clam Dive Permit to the original permit holder or to a new transferee, provided that the original permit holder again submits medical evidence documenting that the injury or illness continues to prevent their return to diving.  (C) There is a two-year limit on the eligibility of each individual permit for medical transfer status, beginning with the start date of the first medical transfer of that permit and ending two years from that date.  (D) If the Department, after review of a denial by the Board, allows a transfer, the original Bay Clam Dive Permit holder shall give written notice to the Department of the name, address and telephone number of the transferee. The original permit holder may, at any time during the transfer period specified in subsection (1)(c) of this rule, request the Department reinstate the permit back to their possession. Such transfer requires 30 days written notice to the Department. In any event, upon expiration of the transfer period specified in subsection (1)(c) of this rule, or upon cancellation of a transfer due to lack of medical evidence of continuing inability to dive, the permit shall revert automatically to the original permit holder, unless the transfer is renewed, as provided in subsection (1)(c) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 506.036, 506.109, 506.119 & 506.129 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 76-2012, f. 6-28-12, cert. ef. 7-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
