



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 235 SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR LICENSES 
 584-235-0100 
 License for Conditional Assignment – Professional Administrator License 
 
 (1) Purpose: The purpose of a License for Conditional Assignment (LCA) for Professional Administrator License is to allow a holder of a Principal License, a Restricted Administrator License, or a Reciprocal Administrator License to serve in a district-level administrator position in their sponsoring school district while they complete the requirements for the Professional Administrator License.  The LCA for Professional Administrator License is a conditional assignment on an underlying school administrator license. An LCA is not a stand-alone or independent license. The LCA requires school district sponsorship. 

 (2) Definitions: 

 (a) “Building-level administrator position:” An administrator position within a prekindergarten through grade 12 Oregon public school or charter school, including principal, vice, associate or assistant principal, and such other building-level position, regardless of title, that is within the scope of school administrator licensure, as provided in 584-235-0010 Scope and Responsibilities of a School Administrator. 

 (b) “District-level administrator position:” An administrator position within a prekindergarten through grade 12 Oregon public school or education service district that has responsibilities across schools or programs, including a director of program, a superintendent, an assistant, deputy or associate superintendent, and such other district-level position, regardless of title, that is within the scope of school administrator licensure, as provided in 584-235-0010 Scope and Responsibilities of a School Administrator. 

 (3) Term of LCA for Administrator: The LCA for Professional Administrator License may be reauthorized up to two times per the underlying license type and is valid for a length of term, as provided: 

 (a) For applications received from July 1 through December 31, the first LCA for Professional Administrator License is valid through June 30 of the school year for which it is issued.  

 (b) For applications received from January 1 through June 30, the first LCA for Professional Administrator License is valid through June 30 of the following school year, unless otherwise requested by the sponsoring district; 

 (c) The second and third (final) term of the LCA for Professional Administrator License will only be authorized for up to one year and with an expiration date of the next June 30. 

 (d) The LCA for Professional Administrator License will not be “back dated.” Time spent on assignments where the district failed to request the LCA will be deducted from the allowable LCA total (either one year or three years). 

 (4) Assignments: The LCA for Professional Administrator License qualifies the holder to accept within the sponsoring district: 

 (a) Any superintendent or district-level administrator positions; 

 (b) Any school administrator assignment at the building or district-level; and 

 
 NOTE: An active and valid Oregon teaching license is required for a teaching assignment that is not for the purpose of substituting. 
 

 (5) District Sponsorship: The LCA for the Professional Administrator License requires district sponsorship. The sponsoring district must : 

 (a) Submit a request to sponsor the applicant for the LCA for the Professional Administrator License; and 

 (b) Assure the educator applies for an LCA for Professional Administrator License: 

 (A) By October 31st if school administrator position begins in the fall term; or 

 (B) Within two weeks of start date if district-level school administrator position begins after October 31st. 

 (6) Transfer of District Sponsorship:  To transfer sponsorship of the LCA for Professional Administrator License to another district, the new sponsoring district must: 

 (a) Meet the requirements of subsection (5); 

 (b) Inform the original sponsoring district about the transfer; 

 (c) Require the applicant to submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050 . 

 (7) The new sponsoring district and applicant will only be issued the LCA for any time remaining in the original terms, starting from the authorization date of the first LCA for Professional Administrator License.  

  (8) Eligible Licenses: The LCA for Professional Administrator License may be added to: 

 (a) Principal License; 

 (b) Reciprocal Administrator License; and 

 (c) Legacy Administrator License. 

 (9) Underlying License: The underlying license must be kept current in order for the LCA to remain active. 

 (a) The LCA will not be issued for a duration that exceeds the expiration date of the underlying license. 

 (b) If the underlying license lapses, the LCA may be re-activated for a time as determined by the Executive Director or Licensure Director upon reinstatement of the underlying license. 

 (10) Applying for the LCA: To be eligible to apply for LCA for Professional Administrator License , the applicant must: 

 (a) Hold an active and valid qualifying non-provisional Oregon Principal, Reciprocal, Restricted, or Legacy Administrator license; 

 (b) Have sponsorship from their employing district; 

 (c) Have never held the LCA for Professional Administrator License ; 

 (e) Submit a complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (11) First Reauthorization : To be eligible to apply for the first reauthorization of an LCA for Professional Administrator License , an applicant must submit: 

 (a) Have sponsorship from their employing district; 

 (b) Evidence of admission and enrollment into a Commission-approved Professional Administrator License program.  The evidence of admission and enrollment must be verified by the educator preparation program to which the educator is admitted; 

 (c) A complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (12) Second Reauthorization : To be eligible to apply for the second reauthorization of an LCA for Administrator, an applicant must submit: 

 (a) A request to sponsor the LCA from the employing district; 

 (b) Evidence the educator has completed more than 50 percent of a Commission-approved Professional Administrator License. The completion of more than 50 percent of the program must be verified by the educator preparation provider in which the educator is enrolled; and 

 (c) A complete and correct application in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 (13)  Non-Reauthorization: The Director of Licensure may not approve the application for reauthorization of the LCA for Professional Administrator License upon failure to show progress in the administrator licensure or endorsement program. 

 (14) Next License: Upon expiration of the final term of the LCA for Professional Administrator License, recipients of this LCA must meet all the requirements for the Professional Administrator License. 

 (a) The educator may apply for the Professional Administrator License prior to the expiration of the final term of the LCA for Administrator. 

 (b) If the educator does not meet the qualifications for the Professional Administrator License prior to the expiration of the final term of the LCA for Professional Administrator License, the educator may apply for an Emergency Administrator License, as provided in 584-080-0171. 

 (c) Continuing to serve as a school administrator on an expired LCA is a violation of licensure law. In these cases, the license holder or the assigning administrator or both may be subject to sanctions for gross neglect of duty by the Commission pursuant to OAR 584-020-0040(4). 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 - 342.430 & 342.455 - 342.495; 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2019, adopt filed 02/25/2019, effective 02/25/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
