



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 143 BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT 
 340-143-0020 
 Ballast Water Management: Reporting, Management Plans and Recordkeeping
 
 
 (1) A vessel owner or operator covered by OAR chapter 340, division 143 must report ballast water management information to DEQ at least 24 hours before entering waters of the state. When the vessel’s voyage is less than 24 hours in total duration, the report must be submitted prior to departing the vessel’s port or place of departure. The report is required whether or not the owner or operator plans to discharge ballast water into waters of the state. Compliance with these reporting requirements may be met by sending the report to DEQ via e-mail, fax, or mail. Vessel owners or operators who rely on a third party to collect, forward or submit ballast water reporting forms are responsible for ensuring that DEQ receives the ballast water management information as required in this section. Electronic reporting must be submitted using methods and file formats approved by DEQ. 

 (2) The report must be submitted on a form acceptable to the U.S. Coast Guard pursuant to 33 CFR part 151, unless DEQ approves an alternative format in writing. 

 (3) If a vessel owner or operator alters or plans to alter its ballast water management for any reason after reporting its ballast water management information, the owner or operator must submit an amended ballast water management report to DEQ. An amended reporting form must be filed at the time of first known or predictable change of destination, and immediately upon completion of discharge operations resulting in changes to actual volume of ballast water discharged. 

 (4) Any owner or operator failing to report ballast water management information as required by this rule must file the required report immediately upon discovering the violation. 

 (5) Vessel owners or operators must develop and maintain on board a ballast water management plan that is specifically developed for the vessel and that allows those responsible for the plan’s implementation to understand and follow the vessel’s ballast management strategy. The contents, training requirements and availability must be consistent with ballast water management plan regulations established by the U.S. Coast Guard under 33 CFR 151.2035a subpart D. 

 (6) Vessel owners or operators must record all ballast water and sediment management operations in the vessel’s ballast water log, record book or other suitable documentation system. 

 (a) Content. Vessel owners or operators must maintain a version of the ballast water log, record book or other suitable documentation system in English on board the vessel that, at a minimum: 

 (A) Records each operation involving ballast water or sediment management; 

 (B) Describes each such operation, including the location and circumstances of, and the reason for, the operation; 

 (C) Records the exact time and position of the start and stop of the ballast water exchange or treatment operations for each tank; and 

 (D) Describes the nature and circumstances of any situation under which a safety exemption from ballast management requirements was declared. 

 (b) Availability. Vessel owners or operators must make the ballast water log or record book readily available for examination by DEQ at all reasonable times. The vessel owner or operator must transmit to DEQ any information about the vessel’s ballast operations that DEQ requires. 

 (c) Retention period. The ballast water log or record book must be available on board the vessel for a minimum of two years after the date on which the last entry in the book is made. 

 (d) Required signatures. DEQ will require that each completed page and each completed vessel exchange or treatment operation in the ballast water log or record book be signed and dated by the vessel owner or operator or responsible officer; and that such owner, operator or responsible officer attest to the accuracy of the information provided and certifies compliance with the vessel ballast water management plan. 

 (e) Alternative means of recording. The ballast water log or record book may be an electronically recorded system or integrated into another record book or system. At a minimum, any alternative method must meet provisions of this section. 

 (f) Records Storage for unmanned barges. If no secure location is available to store records on unmanned barges, these vessel operators may meet provisions of this section by storing records on an associated tug or at other accessible locations and must provide logbook records to DEQ on request. 

 [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & 783.620 - 783.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 783.620 - 783.640 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 20-2023, amend filed 11/20/2023, effective 12/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 4-2011, f. & cert. ef. 3-17-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 17-2002, f. 11-1-02, cert. ef. 12-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
