



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 163 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR HEATING OIL TANK SOIL MATRIX CLEANUP SERVICE PROVIDERS AND SUPERVISORS 
 340-163-0035 
 Licensing and Examination Requirements for Heating Oil Tank Supervisors 
 
 (1) An individual must take and pass a qualifying examination approved by the Department to be eligible to apply for a license to supervise heating oil tank services when employed by a licensed heating oil tank service provider. The Department may use examinations administered by a nationally recognized underground storage tank examination firm or organization.  (2) If no national examination system is available or if an Oregon-specific testing method is determined necessary by the Department, the Department may develop an examination process that may include field tests in addition to or in lieu of a written examination, that is specific to heating oil tank services, is administered by the Department, and that includes reimbursement of an amount sufficient to cover the costs of administering the examination.  (3) The Department will issue a license for heating oil tank site assessment, decommissioning and cleanup activities to individuals who complete and submit a license application to the Department that includes, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) Name and address of the individual;  (b) Name, address and license number of the service provider that the individual is employed by or is regularly associated with;  (c) Original or clearly legible copy of documentation that the applicant has successfully passed the appropriate supervisor examination; and  (d) The required fee.  (4) Applications must be submitted to the Department within 30 days of passing the qualifying examination.  (5) The Department will review the application for completeness. If the application is incomplete, the applicant will be notified of deficiencies by telephone or in writing.  (6) After the application is approved, the Department will issue a supervisor license to the applicant that is valid for twenty-four (24) months from the date of issue. The license is in the form of an identification card that includes the name of the individual, license number and expiration date.  (7) License renewals must be applied for and will be issued in the same manner as the application for the original license, including re-examination, except: The renewal license period will be for twenty-four (24) months from the expiration date of the previous license issued. If the current license lapses for any reason, the individual may not perform or offer to perform heating oil tank supervisory services during any time between the expiration date and issuance of the renewal license.  (8) Until July 1, 2000, or a later date determined by the Department, applicants for a heating oil tank supervisor license may use the Oregon Soil Matrix Cleanup examination to meet the requirements of OAR 340-163-0035(1). After that date, the Department will designate a heating-oil-specific examination as the qualifying examination. The Department may make a determination that more than one examination or license category is necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 466.706 - 466.895 & 466.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 466.706 & 466.750 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 3-2000, f. & cert. ef. 2-17-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 28-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-6-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
