



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 44 CHARITABLE PHARMACIES 
 855-044-0030 
 Drug Donation 
 
 (1) A charitable pharmacy may not accept:  (a) Any controlled substance or any kit, package or blister pack that contains any controlled substance;  (b) A non-prescription drug;  (c) A drug in a container or package that does not contain a product identification label (PIL), except that a drug in a manufacturer’s original container or a manufacturer’s blister pack does not need to bear a PIL;  (d) An FDA REMS (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy) drug;  (e) A drug donated from another state.  (2) A charitable pharmacy may accept:  (a) A prescription drug received in original, sealed, tamper-evident packaging that displays the lot number and expiration date of the drug; and  (b) Sealed single unit dose packages received in opened packages containing multiple single unit doses.  (3) The following are examples of acceptable packaging:  (a) Manufacturer’s original container;  (b) Single-dose blister packs in sealed outer package;  (c) Single-dose blister packs in opened outer package;  (d) Tamper-evident hospice kit containing manufacturer’s original containers.  (4) Donated drugs that do not meet the above criteria or are judged by the pharmacist to be unsafe for re-dispensing must be stored separately from the drug supply until they can be destroyed.  (5) A charitable pharmacy may accept a drug from:  (a) An individual;  (b) A long-term care facility;  (c) A pharmacy;  (d) A practitioner who has been given dispensing privileges by their licensing board and is acting within their scope of practice;  (e) Another registered charitable pharmacy;  (f) A medical clinic;  (g) A drug manufacturer or wholesaler;  (h) A Medication Assistance Program (MAP) such as those supported by drug manufacturers.  (6) The donor must certify on a Donor Form provided by the Board that the donated drug has been properly stored, in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, and has never been opened, used, adulterated or misbranded.  (7) Upon written request, the Board may waive any of the requirements of this rule if a waiver will further public health and safety. A waiver granted under this section shall only be effective when it is issued in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.772 & 689.774 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 6-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-29-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
