



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0120 
 Housing and Community Development Records
 
 
 (1) Community Development Project Records: Series documents the assessment, funding determination, planning, design, and construction of various homeowner improvement projects, including facilities, structures, and systems. Records may include work plan and specifications, bid and contract information, project management/monitoring records, feasibility studies, plans, amendments, inspector reports, change orders, status reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 10 years after substantial completion [as defined by ORS 12.135], or 3 years after final disposition, or as specified in agreement, whichever is longer. 

 (2) Environmental Review Records: Series documents individual environmental impact review studies for community development and transit projects in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Records may include duplicate materials from project records, environmental assessments, evaluations, determinations, reporting information to the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (3) Housing Authority Bylaws, Rules, and Policies: Series documents the powers and purposes of the housing authority, as well as implementation policies in accordance with federal and state laws. Records may include bylaws, and rules and policies on confidentiality, purchasing, tenant grievances, and other subjects. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (4) Housing Authority Individual Tenant History Records: Series documents the history of individual tenant and housing authority actions from application to separation from the program. Records may include applications, landlord references, rental agreements, leases, periodic reexamination and hardship records, income verification records, billing statements, maintenance requests, damage complaints, eviction notices, grievance hearing records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years after separation from program. 

 (5) Housing Authority Program Management Records: Series documents the activities and status of various programs administered by the housing authority (Section 8, etc.). Records may include staff meeting records and reports, waiting lists, maintenance records, tenant statistics, and related records generated in the administration of housing authority programs not specified elsewhere in the schedule. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual or final expenditure report submitted. 

 (6) Housing Authority Property Management Records: Series documents the actions of the housing authority in managing housing not owned by the agency. Records may include applications for funding, sub-grants, insurance policies, contracts, and non-profit organization records such as articles of incorporation, bylaws, budgets, minutes, agendas, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 6 years after expiration. 

 (7) Housing Authority Rejected Assistance Application Records: Series documents rejected applications and related records from individuals seeking assistance from the housing authority. Records may include verification forms and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (8) Housing Development Project Records: Series documents the utilization of funding from the federal HOME Investment Partnership Program to expand the supply of decent and affordable housing, particularly rental housing, for very low- and low-income citizens. Records may include documentation of the assessment, funding determination, planning, design, and construction of various housing development projects, including facilities, structures, and systems, as well as documentation on the acquisition of existing housing structures for housing. Records may also include work plans and specifications, bid and contract information, project management/monitoring records, feasibility studies, plans, amendments, inspector reports, change orders, status reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 10 years after substantial completion [as defined by ORS 12.135] of new structures or acquisition of existing housing units. 

 (9) Housing Rehabilitation Loan Records: Series documents the County Housing Rehabilitation Programs for low-income homeowners with loans for needed and critical home repairs. Records may include client application, verification of income, credit report information, deeds of trust, project specifications and work plan, copy of agency agreement with homeowner, financial records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Deferred Payment Loans (DPL), 5 years after homeowner leaves home, sells home, transfers the title, refinances the mortgage, or a change of use; (b) County Home Improvement Program Loans (CHIP), 5 years after loan pay-off or foreclosure; (c) Rental Rehabilitation Loans, 5 years after loan pay-off or foreclosure; (d) Cancelled Housing Rehabilitation Loans, 10 years after loan cancellation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 -192.170 & ORS 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
