



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0145 
 Superficial Electronic Brachytherapy: Calibration, Acceptance Testing and Commissioning 
 
 (1) Full calibration, acceptance testing and commissioning must be performed by, or under the direct supervision of a qualified medical physicist. 

 (2) Acceptance testing and commissioning shall be performed in accordance with industry standards of practice and the manufacturer’s specifications. Acceptance testing and commissioning shall be conducted before the first patient treatment following installation or re-installation of the superficial electronic brachytherapy device. 

 (3) Full calibration must include all applicable parameters in accordance with industry standards of practice and implement all of the manufacturer’s specifications to determine that all parameters of the superficial brachytherapy device are within acceptable limits. Full calibration must be completed: 

 (a) Before the first medical use after installation or reinstallation; 

 (b) Whenever quality assurance check measurements indicate that the radiation output differs by more than five percent from the value obtained at the last full calibration and the difference cannot be reconciled. Superficial brachytherapy device with multi-energy or multi-mode capabilities must only require measurements for those modes or energies that are not within their acceptable range; 

 (c) Following any component replacement, major repair, or modification of components that could significantly affect the characteristics of the radiation beam. If the repair, replacement or modification does not affect all modes and energies, measurements must be performed on the effected mode and energy that is in most frequent clinical use at the facility; (d) At intervals not exceeding 12 months, although it shall not be necessary to complete all elements of a full calibration at the same time, all applicable parameters (for all energies) shall be completed. 

 (4) The registrant must maintain a record of each full calibration for the duration of the registration. The record must include: 

 (a) The date of the calibration; 

 (b) The manufacturer's name, model number, and serial number for both the therapeutic radiation machine and the X-ray tube; 

 (c) The model numbers and serial numbers of the instruments used to calibrate the therapeutic radiation machine; and 

 (d) The signature of the qualified medical physicist responsible for performing the calibration. 

 (5) Calibration records must be maintained in accordance with OAR 333-100-0057 for the duration of the registration. The record must include: 

 (a) The date of the calibration; 

 (b) The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the superficial brachytherapy device; 

 (c) The model numbers and serial numbers of the instruments used to calibrate the superficial brachytherapy device; and 

 (d) The signature of the qualified medical physicist responsible for performing or overseeing the calibration. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 72-2020, adopt filed 10/09/2020, effective 10/09/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
