



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0125 
 Student Records, Other 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the student records, other records of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Agency Sponsored Program Records: Records document the participation of agency-sponsored students in college programs. Agencies might include, but are not limited to, Adult and Family Services (AFS) Division, Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS), Vocational Rehabilitation Division, Vocational Rehabilitation Division (VRD), Veterans’ Administration, Jobs Training and Preparation Act (JTPA), Social Security and local agencies. Records may include participant case files, specific applications for service, employment development plans (EDP), fee expenditures’ documents, progress files, and case correspondence. (Minimum retention: five years).  (2) Cooperative Work Experience Records: Records document student participation in and college administration of cooperative work experience programs which provide credit for learning on the work site. Records include training agreements and learning objectives contracts between the college, student and employer; work habit evaluation reports; registration records which are entered into the student’s academic record; and related correspondence and documentation. (Minimum retention: Contracts and agreements: six years after expiration; Other records: 10 years).  (3) Occupational Skills Training Records: Records document student participant in and college administration of programs designed to provide occupational skills training for persons recruited from governmental programs such as vocational rehabilitation, workers compensation, or veterans’ programs. Records include but are not limited to student attendance and job performance reports; progress in learning objectives report; counseling case files and notes; and related correspondence and documentation. (Minimum retention: one year).  (4) Peer Assistant Program Records: Records document the administration and activities of the peer assistant program. Peer assistants are trained college students who assist other student with the personal, academic, and social concerns; refer students to college counselors; provide information about college and community resources; assist with student orientation; make presentations; and assist the counseling and advising staff in a variety of ways. Records may include but are not limited to student application and selection records including application forms, reference letters, transcripts, and interview records including application forms, reference letter, transcripts, and interview records; training and work schedules; evaluation records; reports summarizing program activities and analyzing the assistance provided; activity contact logs; meeting agendas and minutes; program notebooks or files containing records about funding, recruitment, publicity, projects, and training; and related correspondence and documentation. (Minimum retention: one year).  (5) Placement Service Records: Records document student participation in the job placement services provided by the college for students and others in the community. Records may include but are not limited to job history records; list of employers and job listings; job postings; correspondence with employers; and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Student Academic Records. (Minimum retention: one year).  (6) Services to Students with Disabilities Program Records: Records document student participation in the Services to Students with Disabilities Program. The records may include but are not limited to health professional evaluation reports; recommendations for student applicants; high school transcripts and academic work-sheets; autobiographical essays; special admissions applications checklists; physicians’ statements and letters of recommendation; counseling interview notes; counseling referrals; records of services provided; diagnostic test result and correspondence. Some records may be exempt from disclosure because of Americans with Disabilities Act. (Minimum retention: one year after date last attended).  (7) Student Advising and Counseling Records: Records document college counseling and “non-academic” advising activities such as career planning and selection, personal counseling, and educational planning and monitoring. Records may include but are not limited to personality and interest tests; advisor or counselor notes; records and test scores from outside agencies; test and assessment results; and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Student Academic Advising Records in the Student Records, Academic section. Portions of these records may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(2). (Minimum retention: five years).  (8) Student Exchange Participant Records: Records document student participation in a community college student exchange program. Records may include but are not limited to letters of application; applications for admission to the college as special students; notices of admission to host institutions; personal data sheets; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: one year).  (9) Student Government Administrative Records: Records document the history, development, and policies of campus student organizations, including student clubs, government, and newspaper. This series may include but is not limited to student organization annual review forms; minutes; constitution and by-laws; committee and task-force records; election records; student senate bill and resolution files; budget and accounting records; officer and member rosters; scrapbooks; photographs; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Minutes, constitution, bylaws, senate bill and resolution files, officer rosters, and photographs: Permanent; Other records: three years).  (10) Student Grievance Records: Records document grievances or complaints brought forward by students against the institution concerning student conduct and violations of student rights and responsibilities. Records may include but are not limited to notices of grievance; written description of the complaint; informal discussion notes; formal hearings notes (including audio tapes); summary of interviews; final summary statements; resolution of grievance; appeals documentation; and related documentation and correspondence. SEE ALSO: Grievance Records in the Administrative Records section. Portions of these records may be exempt from public disclosure per ORS 192.502(2). (Minimum retention: five years after resolution).  (11) Student Handbooks: Records document the requirements and policies for current of potential students. This series may contain information or policies on fields of study; faculty; academic requirements; the evaluation process; and research proposal process. (Minimum retention: Permanent).  (12) Student Recruitment Records: Records document the requirement and policies for current or potential students. This series may contain but is not limited to prospect lists; interview and conversation notes; photographs; personal information forms and resumes; copies of test scores and copies of academic transcripts; and related documentation and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Current term).  (13) Student Rights and Responsibilities Documents: Records document the contract between the student and institution concerning student rights and responsibilities, rules of student conduct, freedoms, and due process. The document contains statements of code of behavior, student rights, conflict resolution, student discipline, and the appeal process. The statement is published in the student handbook and catalog. (Minimum retention: six years after expiration).  (14) Tutoring Records: Records document tutoring services provided to students. Records include but are not limited to registration records; tutor training records; tutor (student hourly, work study, or staff) personnel records; tutor class records; and memoranda. (Minimum retention: one year). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
