



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 PROCEDURES FOR CONTRACTS ENTERED INTO WITH THE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 123-006-0035 
 Contract Amendments
 
 
 (1) General Rule. The Department may amend any contract without additional competition, including reinstatements and cost overruns, but only when the Department has determined: 

 (a) The amended Contract is within the Scope of the Solicitation Document, or if no Solicitation Document, the Contract; or in the instance of a Special Procurement, the approval of Special Procurement; 

 (b) The amended Contract does not adversely affect the competitive conditions for the original contract; and 

 (c) If the Contract was selected according to the Small Procurement method, the total compensation does not exceed $10,000, or, if selected according to the Intermediate Procurement method, the total compensation does not exceed $150,000. 

 (2) Anticipated Amendments. 

 (a) "Anticipated Amendment" means the Department has text in any Solicitation Document and the Contract that explains: 

 (A) The possibility of one or more Amendments; 

 (B) A general description of circumstances that might require an Amendment to be issued under the Contract and any changes to the requirements of the Contract that may be anticipated or even planned for, but not necessarily quantified at the time of Contract execution. These changes may be described in any Solicitation and Contract as, for example: Extra Work or Goods; Additional Work; Work to be done if certain situations are encountered; or Changes in terms, conditions, price, or type of Work; etc.; and 

 (C) The provisions of the Contract that are subject to negotiation in order to finalize the details and costs of such an Amendment. 

 (b) Anticipated Amendments do not include cost overruns or reinstatements. 

 (c) The Department may make one or more Anticipated Amendments to a Contract without any additional competitive process and for an unlimited amount, subject to section (1) of this rule. 

 (3) Unanticipated Amendments. 

 (a) "Unanticipated Amendment" means any Amendment that does not meet the requirements of an Anticipated Amendment. Unanticipated Amendments do not include cost overruns or reinstatements. 

 (b) Limited Amount. The Department may make one or more Unanticipated Amendments to a Contract without any additional competitive process, provided the cumulative amounts of all Unanticipated Amendments do not exceed 100% of the Original Contract amount and subject to section (1) of this rule. 

 (c) Unlimited Amount. The Department may make one or more Unanticipated Amendments to a Contract without any additional competitive process and for an unlimited amount, subject to section (1) of this rule, and provided the Department's Designated Procurement Officer gives written approval of the Unanticipated Amendment as meeting the following requirements: 

 (A) The Unanticipated Amendment is due to circumstances that were unforeseen at the time the original Contract was established; 

 (B) The Unanticipated Amendment does not represent any important general change that alters the essential identity or main purpose of the original Contract, nor is of such importance that it should be a new undertaking; and 

 (C) The Unanticipated Amendment serves the public interest, including specific reasoning to support that conclusion. Reasons may include, but are not limited to: To address emergencies arising in the course of the Contract that require prompt action to protect the Work already completed or Goods delivered; to comply with official or judicial commands or directives issued during contract performance; or to ensure that the purpose of the Contract will be realized. 

 (4) Cost Overruns. 

 (a) Unless the Contract provides that the maximum total compensation is based on an estimate and is subject to amendment, if Contractor expends all authorized compensation but the required Goods, Work or Services are not complete or are not satisfactory, Contractor is responsible to complete the Goods, Work or Services to Department's satisfaction without further compensation. 

 (b) Notwithstanding the general rule in subsection (4)(a) above, Department may, by Amendment to the Contract, agree to increases in the maximum total compensation, subject to section (1) of this rule, and provided the Department's Designated Procurement Officer gives written approval of the Cost Overrun Amendment as meeting the following requirements: 

 (A) The cost overrun arose out of circumstances or conditions encountered in the course of contract performance that were unavoidable and not reasonably anticipated at the time of the original Contract, or the most recent Amendment, if any; 

 (B) The cost overrun was incurred in good faith, results from the good faith performance by the Contractor, and is no greater than the prescribed hourly rate or the reasonable value of the additional Goods, Work or Services rendered; and 

 (C) The Cost Overrun Amendment serves the public interest, including specific reasoning to support that conclusion. Reasons may include, but are not limited to: To address emergencies arising in the course of the Contract that require prompt action to protect the Work already completed; to comply with official or judicial commands or directives issued during contract performance; or to ensure that the purpose of the Contract will be realized. 

 (5) Reinstatements. 

 (a) "Reinstatement" of an expired Contract means an amendment to restore the full action of the Contract as though the expiration had not occurred, and extend the Contract to a new expiration. A reinstatement may be combined with any other amendment allowed by this rule. 

 (b) The Department's Designated Procurement Officer may give written approval to reinstate an expired Contract if the following requirements are met: 

 (A) The failure to extend or renew the Contract in a timely manner was due to unforeseen or unavoidable conditions, or if due to administrative mistake, the reason for the mistake and the steps taken to prevent similar mistakes; 

 (B) The expiration occurred in good faith on the part of both the Department and the Contractor; 

 (C) The reinstatement furthers the public interest, compared to a separate procurement process, including specific reasoning to support that conclusion; and 

 (c) When a Contract is reinstated pursuant to this section, the Department may compensate the Contractor only at the rate or terms of compensation established in the original Contract, for Goods, Work or Services performed in the interim between the expiration of the original Contract and the execution of the Reinstatement Amendment. 

 (6) Amendments of Contracts for Architectural, Engineering and Land Surveying Services. This rule does not apply to amendments of Contracts for Architectural, Engineering and Land Surveying Services. The Department will comply with the Oregon Department of Justice Model Public Contract Rules, OAR chapter 137, division 048 for amendments to such contracts. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285A.075 & 279.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 15-2019, amend filed 10/04/2019, effective 10/04/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 1-2014, f. 2-28-14, cert. ef. 3-3-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 14-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 12-30-13 thru 6-27-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 2-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 4-2-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 37-2010, f. 10-29-10, cert. ef. 11-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EDD 26-2008, f. 8-28-08, cert. ef. 9-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EDD 11-2005, f. 11-30-05, cert. ef. 12-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
