



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 FOOD ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND STANDARDS FOR RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ACTIVITIES 
 603-025-0151 
 Property Tax Exemption for Qualified Machinery and Equipment 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Agriculture is authorized to certify qualified machinery and equipment for the purposes of ORS 307.453–307.457.  (2) Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the definitions in ORS chapter 307.455 apply, unless the context requires otherwise. In addition, the following definitions apply.  (a) "Newly acquired property" means new or used machinery and equipment that is first purchased or leased by a food processor not more than two years (24 months) prior to placing it into service. Leased equipment may be exempt only if the food processor is responsible for the payment of the property taxes under the terms of the lease agreement. Newly acquired property does not include existing equipment that has been refurbished or reconditioned in the time frame provided by this rule.  (b) "Placed into service" means the date the machinery and equipment is first used or in such condition that it is readily available and operational for its intended commercial use. It does not include property that is being tested or is in the process of being erected or installed on the January 1 assessment date.  (c) "Real Market Value of the Property" for the purpose of determining the late filing penalty pursuant to ORS 307.455, means the invoice cost of the machinery and equipment, installation, engineering, and miscellaneous costs including machinery process piping, foundations, power wiring, interest during installation, and freight.  (3) The process for application and determination of certification for qualified machinery and equipment is as follows:  (a) Any food processor requesting certification must make a request for certification in writing on a form provided by the Oregon Department of Agriculture. Certification request forms are available on the Oregon Department of Agriculture web site and the Oregon Department of Revenue web site, or are available by mail from either agency upon request.  (b) Upon receiving a completed certification request form, the Food Safety Program of the Oregon Department of Agriculture may schedule a visit to the processing site for the purpose of inspecting and verifying the eligibility of machinery requested for certification as qualified machinery or equipment.  (c) After inspecting the food processing equipment requested to be certified, the Oregon Department of Agriculture shall make a determination as to property that is qualified for certification. This determination of certification shall be in writing and include a schedule of all machinery or equipment the Oregon Department of Agriculture has certified.  (4) Following certification, a food processor seeking continued exemption as described at ORS 307.455 must annually verify that equipment previously certified still constitutes qualified machinery or equipment as follows: By January 30th of each year following certification a food processor must submit to the Oregon Department of Revenue a signed form that includes a schedule of all equipment previously certified and provides sufficient information to the Oregon Department of Revenue such that it can determine whether previously-certified machinery or equipment continues to meet certification requirements.  (5) The Oregon Department of Agriculture may inspect any equipment or machinery previously certified for the purposes of determining continued certification pursuant to ORS 307.455.  (6) If a food processor seeks to add additional machinery or equipment not previously certified to its annual certification verification list then the food processor must apply for certification of this additional equipment pursuant to the process for certifying qualified machinery or equipment provided in these rules.  (7) Denial of certification of certain property by the Oregon Department of Agriculture is a contested case for the purpose of ORS Chapter 183. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561, 307.453, 307.455, 307.457, 307.459 & 2015 HR 3125 & 78th Or. Legis. Assemb. 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 307.459 & 616.700 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-9-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
