



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0170 
 Public Works — General Records
 
 
 (1) Aerial Images: Series documents aerial photography depicting topographical and physical features of a particular geographic area. Records may include photographic negatives, original prints, digital images, or other photographic formats. Note: Photographs that are duplicates of originals held by state, county, federal, or other sources may be retained as needed. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (2) Annual Water Quality Reports (Consumer Confidence Reports): Series documents the presence of any contaminants in county water over the course of a year. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (3) Backflow Prevention Device Test Records: Series documents test results on backflow prevention devices designed to protect the water system from pollution related to substances backing into water lines. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (4) Drinking Water System Non-Compliance Corrective Action Records: Series documents action taken by the agency to correct violations of primary drinking water regulations. Records may include reports, logs, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after last action. 

 (5) Engineering Project Technical Records: Series documents the planning, design, and construction of various agency improvement projects, including facilities, structures, and systems. Records may include impact statements, feasibility studies, plans, amendments, policy and procedure manuals, field test and laboratory reports, UAV (drone) video recordings, inspector reports, change orders, status reports, and related documentation. Some records may have historic value. For appraisal assistance, contact the Oregon State Archives. SEE ALSO: Financial Records section; and Maps, Plans, and Drawings. Minimum retention: 10 years after substantial completion [as defined by ORS 12.135]. 

 (6) Hazardous Situation Permit Records: Series documents the issuance of a permit by the employer notifying employees that they may be exposed to hazardous substances and/or conditions in confined spaces. Records may include permit, pre-entry testing data, and field notations and observations. Minimum retention: 1 year after permit cancelled. 

 (7) Hydrant Location, Maintenance, and Inspection Records: Series documents the location, specifications, maintenance, testing, and repair of water hydrants in the water system. Records may include lists, charts, logs, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Location and specification records, until hydrant permanently removed from service; (b) Maintenance, test, and repair records, 2 years. 

 (8) Grease Trap Inspection Records: Series documents the agency’s inspection of grease traps in food service facilities. Records may include applications, inspection reports, copies of the license issued, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) 1 year after date of most recent inspection by agency; (b) Closed facilities, 2 years after closure. 

 (9) Industrial Pretreatment Permit Records: Series documents permits issued by the agency to private industries allowing the discharge of specific pollutants under controlled conditions. Records may include applications, permits, addenda, modifications, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Permits, addenda, and modifications, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years after expiration or revocation. 

 (10) Infrastructure Master Plans Records: Series documents the present and projected needs of the agency for water, sewer, storm drainage, street, bike path, and other systems. Records may include plans, reports, evaluations, cost analyses, drawings, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (11) Maps, Plans, and Drawings: Series documents maps, plans, and drawings created by the agency or contracted specifically for the agency. Records may include various types of maps, as well as as-built plans, drawings, and details documenting agency engineering and construction projects. Minimum retention: (a) Final implemented maps, plans, and drawings, permanent; (b) Draft and unimplemented maps, plans, and drawings, until superseded or obsolete. 

 (12) Materials Delivery Records: Series documents records issued by suppliers or agency to verify delivery of supplies or materials (concrete, road base, gravel, topsoil, etc.). Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (13) Mobile Waste Hauler Dumping Records: Series documents the dumping of septic pumpings and other wastes from various sources at the agency waste treatment facility. Records may include logs, manifests, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (14) National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit Records: Series documents the application for and issuance of a permit to the agency under the Clean Water Act allowing discharge of specific pollutants under controlled conditions. Records may include applications, permits, addenda, modifications, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Wastewater Annual Inspection Records. Minimum retention: (a) Permit, addenda, and modifications, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years after expiration or revocation. 

 (15) Right-of-Way Permit Records: Series documents permits issued for private use or construction on public rights-of-way such as streets, sidewalks, and adjacent land. Minimum retention: (a) Construction related records, 10 years after substantial completion of project [as defined by ORS 12.135]; (b) All other records, 2 years after expiration, revocation, or discontinuance of use. 

 (16) Secondary Contaminant Reports: Series documents the analysis of water samples to determine the level of secondary contaminants. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (17) Sewage Sludge Records: Series documents the agricultural application of sewage sludge to approved sites. Records may include logs, agronomic loading calculations, and site life loading calculations. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (18) Sewer and Storm Drainage Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents the maintenance and repair of agency sewers and storm drains. Records may include summaries, reports, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports; and Underground Infrastructure Inspection Records. Minimum retention: (a) Records requiring an engineering stamp, 2 years after sewer or storm drain permanently removed from service; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (19) Sewer Smoke Test Records: Series documents smoke tests undertaken to verify hookup to main sewer lines, check condition of pipes, or determine effectiveness of backflow prevention devices. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (20) Superfund Site Cleanup Records: Series documents remediation and cleanup of Environmental Protection Agency-designated Superfund sites. Records may include project charters, agreements, disputes and resolutions, orders, studies, contamination reports, geotechnical reports, land surveys, hazardous waste and environmental analyses, records of remedial actions, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 10 years after completion of remedial action as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency. 

 (21) Temporary Access/Construction Easement Records: Series documents temporary easements allowing entrance and work on property not owned by the easement holder. Permits usually apply to agency crews and utility workers. Minimum retention: 2 years after easement expires. 

 (22) Underground Infrastructure Inspection Records: Series documents inspections used to determine the condition of underground infrastructure within the agency’s jurisdiction. Examples include video inspections of sewers and infrared scanning of power lines. Records may include video recordings and written reports. Minimum retention: (a) Written reports, 1 year after life of section inspected; (b) Video tapes, 1 year after written report submitted. 

 (23) Utility Installation and Connection Records: Series documents installation of agency utility systems or the connection of specific properties to agency water, sewer, power, or similar systems. Records may include applications, permits, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after physical disconnection. 

 (24) Utility Line Location Request Records: Series documents requests and agency action to locate underground lines in the vicinity of a construction site. Records may include notations of water, sewer, storm drains, and other line locations, and related documentation. If agency uses a private contractor to locate lines, SEE ALSO: Contract, Lease, and Agreement Records. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (25) Utility Meter Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Records: Series documents the installation, maintenance, and repair of agency operated water and power meters. Records may include logs, summaries, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (26) Wastewater Annual Inspection Records: Series documents annual inspections of agency wastewater treatment operations by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) to monitor compliance with National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions. Records may include reports, pretreatment requirements review, sampling checklists, flow measurements, laboratory assurance checklists, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Reports, permanent; (b) All other records, until permit renewed, revoked, or expired. 

 (27) Wastewater System Discharge Monitoring Records: Series documents the amount of pollution discharged from the agency’s wastewater treatment facility. Records may include reports submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Reports, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years. 

 (28) Wastewater Treatment Operations Records: Series documents program records not listed elsewhere in this schedule for wastewater treatment operations. Records may include charts, reports, logs, log sheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Annual reports, permanent; (b) Continuous monitoring records, 3 years; (c) All other records, 5 years. 

 (29) Water Bacteriological Quality Analysis Reports: Series documents water samples taken from various locations throughout the water system and supply sources for bacteriological tests. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (30) Water Chemical and Radiological Analysis Reports: Series documents water samples taken from various locations throughout the water system and supply sources for chemical and radiological tests. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (31) Water Consumption Reports: Series documents statistics of daily water consumption. Minimum retention: (a) Annual reports, permanent; (b) Information summarized in annual report, 1 year; (c) Information not summarized in annual report, 10 years. 

 (32) Water Line Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents the maintenance and repair of agency-owned water lines. Records may include reports, summaries, and similar documents usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports. Minimum retention: (a) Records requiring an engineering stamp, 2 years after water line permanently removed from service; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (33) Water Pollution Control Facilities (WPCF) Permit Records: Series documents the application for and issuance of a Water Pollution Control Facilities permit to the agency by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). Records may include applications, permits, addenda, modifications, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Permit, addenda, and modifications, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years after expiration or revocation. 

 (34) Water Quality Complaint Records: Series documents complaints received from the public about the quality of agency provided water. Records may include investigation narrative, complaint description, and complainant contact information. Minimum retention: 3 years after last action. 

 (35) Water System Cross Connection Pollution Control Survey Records: Series documents the monitoring of potential or actual water system health hazards from pollution entering water pipes from other pipes. Records may include reports, surveys, checklists, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year after disconnection or 10 years, whichever is longer. 

 (36) Water System Survey Records: Series documents the overall condition of the agency water system. Records may include written reports, summaries, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Reports, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years. 

 (37) Water System Valve Location and Maintenance Records: Series documents the location, specifications, maintenance, and repair of valves in the water and sewer systems. Records may include lists, charts, drawings, reports, logs, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Location and specification records, until valve permanently removed from service; (b) Maintenance and repair records, 2 years. 

 (38) Water Treatment Operations Records: Series documents water treatment operations and covers program records not listed elsewhere on this schedule. Records may include state or federal required reports, other reports, logs, log sheets, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Annual reports, permanent; (b) Continuous monitoring records, 3 years; (c) All other records, 5 years. 

 (39) Water Treatment Variance and Exception Records: Series documents variances and exceptions granted to the agency by regulatory agencies concerning water treatment operations. Minimum retention: 5 years after expiration or revocation of variance or exception. 

 (40) Water Turbidity Reports: Series documents the analysis of water samples to determine the level of cloudiness caused by suspended particles. Minimum retention: 10 years. 

 (41) Wetlands Removal and Fill Permit Records: Series documents agency application for and receipt of permits regulating the removal or fill of material from wetlands on agency property or rights-of-way. Records may include applications, permits, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 30 years. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
