



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 POLE LINES, BURIED CABLES, PIPE LINES, SIGNS, MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS 
 734-055-0080 
 Freeways 
 
 (1) All permit applications that request the use of freeway rights-of-way shall reasonably comply with the current AASHTO policy on the Accommodation of Utilities Within the Freeway Right-of-Way. Installations that may be allowed on freeways are generally limited to crossings only, with all of the installation work and maintenance activities performed outside of the access control line. All permit applications must include detailed drawings that show the location of the proposed facility and the freeway access control lines and/or right-of-way lines.  (2) Consideration will be given for new longitudinal installations that can be located between the freeway access control line and the freeway right-of-way line.  (3) Only extreme hardship cases will be considered for new longitudinal installations that are inside the freeway access control lines. Applications of this nature must satisfy the AASHTO Policy requirements regarding the impact on the freeway traffic safety, operations and maintenance; the future freeway design and construction; and applicant must demonstrate that alternate locations are not available. Applicant shall address each of the above subjects on the form provided by the DM, titled Permit Variance Request. The Department will evaluate the Permit Variance Request by applying sound engineering principles and judgment to determine the approval or denial of the permit application.  (4) Ground-mounted facilities shall be located to comply with the current clear zone criteria established by AASHTO.  (5) The following activities and installations are prohibited on Interstate Freeway right-of-way:  (a) Open cutting of the roadway surface;  (b) Service connections.  (6) Generally, applicant shall not have or gain direct access, either ingress or egress, to any of the facilities authorized by the permit from the main traveled way of said freeway or its on or off ramps. Upon notice to the DM that an emergency exists and repairs are needed for the immediate protection of property and prevention of personal injury, applicant may request direct access to said authorized facility except that no vehicular traffic movement will be permitted which would cross traffic or affect the normal traffic movement. A permit will only be granted during the actual time of the emergency when applicant can assure the safety of the freeway users. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 374 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
