



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Self-Sufficiency Programs - Chapter 461 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND RULEMAKING 
 461-001-0027 
 Definitions of Terms, Components, and Activities; REF, REP 
 
 In the REF and REP programs, the following definitions apply to rules in OAR chapter 461 unless the context indicates otherwise. 

 (1) "Activity" means an action or set of actions to be taken by an individual, as specified in the case plan (see section (6) of this rule). An "activity" is intended to reduce barriers and: 

 (a) Increase the likelihood of self-sufficiency, employment, job retention, wage enhancement, and financial independence; or 

 (b) Promote family stability (see OAR 461-001-0000). 

 (2) "Adult Basic Education (ABE)"means an activity (see section (1) of this rule) in the basic education (see section (5) of this rule) component (see section (8) of this rule) that involves remedial education coursework intended to ensure functional literacy. 

 (3) "Assessment" means an activity of the program entry (see section (23) of this rule) component that involves gathering information to identify the strengths, interests, family circumstances, status in the REP program, and vocational aptitudes and preferences of the individual and to mutually determine an employment goal, the level of participation of the individual in the REP program, and which support services (see section (29) of this rule) are needed. This activity includes providing screenings and evaluations (if appropriate) to determine the level of participation, accommodation, and modification for the individual in the REP program. The screenings include, but are not limited to, physical and mental health needs, substance abuse, domestic violence, and learning needs. 

 (4) "Barrier" means a personal condition or circumstance that reduces the likelihood the individual will become employed or the ability of the individual to participate in an activity listed in the case plan . 

 (5) "Basic education" means a component of activities intended to ensure functional literacy for all REP participants. "Basic education" activities are high school attendance, English as a second language ( ESL ) (see section (12) of this rule) instruction, job skills training (see section (17) of this rule), adult basic education (ABE) (see section (2) of this rule) instruction, and services that result in obtaining a general equivalency diploma (GED). 

 (6) "Case plan" (formerly also known as an employment development plan (EDP), a personal plan, or personal development plan) means a written outline, developed in partnership by the individual and case manager, with input from partners as appropriate, listing activities and goals for the individual. The "case plan" also identifies the support service payments, accommodations, and modifications to help the individual complete the plan. The DHS 1543 - Domestic Violence Assistance Agreement - is the "case plan" for individuals with safety concerns about domestic violence (see OAR 461-001-0000). 

 (7) "Community service program" means an activity in the unpaid employment (see section (31) of this rule) component in which the individual works without pay at a job site to enhance the likelihood the individual will become employed and perform work for the direct benefit of the community. This activity is available through nonprofit organizations or public agencies. 

 (8) "Component" means a set of one or more activities of the REP program including paid unsubsidized employment (see section (22) of this rule), paid subsidized employment (see section (21) of this rule), unpaid employment , vocational training (see section (33) of this rule), job search and readiness (see section (16) of this rule), and basic education activities . 

 (9) "Crisis intervention" means short-term services to address an immediate crisis need. 

 (10) "Drug and alcohol services" means an activity in the job search and readiness component that provides substance abuse screenings and evaluations, outpatient or resident treatment, and support groups such as AA or NA. 

 (11) "Employer contact" means participant communication with an employer or employer's representative through a visit, phone call, or mail to request consideration for employment. 

 (12) "English as a second language (ESL)" means an activity in the basic education component . "ESL" classes are designed to give individuals with limited English proficiency better working skills in the language. 

 (13) "Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)" means the law that applies to subject employers with individuals working in the unpaid employment component . "FLSA" requires that individuals engaged in unpaid employment , in effect, may not "work off" their SNAP and TANF benefits at an hourly rate less than the state minimum wage. 

 (14) "High School or GED Completion Attendance" means an activity in the basic education component that involves attendance at a secondary school or in a course of study that leads to the completion of the GED. 

 (15) "Job search" means an activity that focuses on participants looking for and obtaining employment designed to improve skills in locating and competing for employment in the local labor market and may include writing resumes, receiving instruction in interviewing skills, and participating in group and individual "job search". 

 (16) "Job search and readiness" means a component designed to prepare individuals to compete in the local labor market. Job search (see section (15) of this rule) , life skills (see section (18) of this rule) , drug and alcohol services (see section (10) of this rule) , mental health services (see section (19) of this rule), and rehabilitation activities (see section (25) of this rule) are the activities of the "job search and readiness" component . 

 (17) "Job skills training" means an activity in the basic education component designed to provide classroom training in vocational and technical skills or equivalent knowledge and abilities in a specific job area. 

 (18) "Life skills" means an activity of the job search and readiness component . The activity develops employment-preparation skills and skills and attitudes that are commonly found in the workplace. 

 (19) "Mental health services" means an activity in the job search and readiness component that provides mental health screenings and assessments, counseling, medication management, and support groups . 

 (20) "On-the-job training (OJT)" means an activity in the paid subsidized employment component in which an individual works for an employer for a contracted period. The employer trains the individual and is reimbursed by the Department, usually at 50 percent of the wages of the participant, for those training costs. 

 (21) " Paid subsidized employment" means a component in which individuals are employed in a subsidized public or private sector job. Work supplementation (see section (35) of this rule), and on-the-job training (see section (20 of this rule) are the activities in the "paid subsidized employment" component . 

 (22) "Paid unsubsidized employment" means a component in which individuals are employed full-time or part-time in an unsubsidized job and receiving REF benefits. Unsubsidized employment is a job that is not subsidized by REF or any other public program. The UN work program (see section (32) of this rule) is the activity in the paid unsubsidized employment component . 

 (23) "Program entry" means an activity that includes all the activities that prepare an individual to actively participate in the REP program including, but not limited to, assessment (see section (3) of this rule) and writing the initial case plan . 

 (24) "Progress (good or satisfactory)" means an individual participating in an education or training activity makes "good progress" or "satisfactory progress" by receiving a passing grade or progressing toward completion of high school or GED completion at no less than the normal rate of a half-time student. 

 (25) "Rehabilitation activities" means an activity in the job search and readiness component that provides medical or therapeutic screenings, assessments, and treatment. This activity also includes medical management and support groups. 

 (26) "Self-initiated training (SI)" means an REP program component that is training needed to be competitive in the job market. Participation in this component is limited to six months. The component may be used to extend an approved vocational training activity . 

 (27) "Stabilization, intervention, and other activities" means activities that include crisis intervention (see section (9) of this rule), domestic violence services, family stability activities, medical services, retention services, social security application, and stabilized living services. 

 (28) "Supported work" means an activity in the unpaid employment component that gives individuals intensive staff support, skill training, intervention, and counseling that will enable them to function independently at work. 

 (29) "Support services" means services that case-managed participants need to participate successfully in activities outlined in their case plan , seek and maintain employment, or remove barriers. 

 (30) "Transition services" means services included in an individual's case plan when the individual becomes employed or becomes ineligible for cash benefits because of an increase in income or resources. 

 (31) "Unpaid employment" means a component in which an individual is placed in an unpaid job to develop good work habits, training, and knowledge to obtain employment. Employment may be in the private or public sector or through a work simulation program. Work experience , community service program , providing child care services to a community service program participant , and supported work (see section (28) of this rule) are the activities of the "unpaid employment" component . 

 (32) "UN work program" means an activity in the paid unsubsidized employment component in which REP participants work in unsubsidized employment and may also participate in another REP work site training activity . 

 (33) "Vocational training" means an activity and component of the REP program that provides REP participants with up to 12 months access to specific "vocational training" that will lead to a career with an appropriate wage level and opportunity for employment. 

 (34) "Work experience" means an activity in the unpaid employment component in which the individual works without pay at a job site to develop good work habits and basic vocational skills that enhance the likelihood the individual will become employed. "Work experience" is available through private for-profit businesses, nonprofit organizations, or public agencies. 

 (35) "Work supplementation" means an activity in the unpaid employment component that is up to six months of work-site training provided by an employer. The component and activity are both called "work supplementation". In "work supplementation", the Department subsidizes the wages of the participant by providing up to $200 per month to the employer. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  412.006, 412.009, 412.016, 412.049, ORS 409.050, 411.060 & 411.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  412.001, 412.006, 412.016, 412.049, ORS 409.010, 411.060 & 411.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSP 34-2017, adopt filed 12/18/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
