



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 ADOPT-A-RIVER PROGRAM 
 250-017-0040 
 Applicant and Participant Responsibilities 
 
 (1) Each participant will be required to execute a liability release form reflecting their awareness and acknowledgement of the potentially hazardous nature of the work involved.  (2) Each participant will be required to comply with and abide by all laws, rules, and regulations relating to safety and use of rivers and waterbodies, and such other terms and conditions as may be required by the Director for special conditions on a particular adopted waterbody section. Individual participants may be excluded from participation or the adoption cancelled, at the discretion of the Director for violation of this section.  (3) Adult supervision is required. Participation by or presence at the work site of individuals under 18 years of age without adult supervision is not permitted.  (4) Each applicant is required to conduct at least one safety meeting per year to inform each participant concerning personal, group and water safety. Each participant is required to attend a safety briefing before participating in the actual work.  (5) Each applicant is required to pick up litter a minimum of once a year. More frequent pick up is permissible.  (6) Each applicant will be responsible for appointing or selecting a spokesperson. The spokesperson's responsibilities include assuring compliance by participants with safety procedures, proper participant clothing and footwear, proper parking of vehicle(s), providing a first-aid kit and adequate drinking water, and arranging transportation of the participants to and from the work site.  (7) Each participant will be responsible for placing litter in trash bags furnished by the Director. The applicant will be responsible for removal of the filled bags and proper disposal. The applicant agrees to coordinate their litter pickup activity with the designated managing agency if another federal, state or local agency is party to the agreement.  (8) If removal of large or heavy items from a river or waterbody is required then prior approval from the Director must be granted to the applicant before such items are removed.  (9) If the noxious weed removal plan is approved and a removal activity is scheduled then an applicant is required to:  (a) Implement the frequency schedule agreed upon in the conditions of the approved noxious weed removal plan;  (b) Review the approved noxious weed removal plan elements with participants;  (c) Follow the procedures identified within the approved noxious weed removal plan when removing noxious weeds from the site; and  (d) Confirm proper identification of noxious weeds as outlined in 250-017-0030(13) prior to removal. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830.110 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 830.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 1-2012, f. 1-13-12, cert. ef. 2-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MB 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
