



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 53 GRAYWATER REUSE AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS 
 340-053-0100 
 Graywater Reuse and Disposal System Design and Construction Standards
 
 
 (1) Graywater collection system. A person may not install a graywater collection system unless it complies with the following requirements: 

 (a) All pipes, valves and other plumbing appurtenances of the graywater collection system must comply with the requirements of the Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code. 

 (b) Unless otherwise approved in writing by the department, a warning sign must be must be visible at each fixture from which graywater is diverted in a nonresidential building. The signs must notify the employees and public that water from the fixture is reused and that chemicals, petroleum oils and hazardous materials must not be disposed down the drain. 

 (2) Treatment system. In order to meet the rules of this division for Type 2 and Type 3 graywater, a person may install a graywater treatment system that meets one of the following requirements: 

 (a) A technology-based graywater treatment system that bears the appropriate graywater product standard seal of approval from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), the Canadian Standards Association (CSA), or any other standard setting body recognized by both the department and the Oregon Department of Business Services, Building Codes Division, to establish graywater product standard requirements. 

 (b) A performance-based treatment system capable of meeting the treatment requirements in OAR 340-053-0090(3)(b) or 340-053-0090(4)(b). 

 (3) Diversion valve. A person may not install a graywater reuse and disposal system unless the system has a graywater diversion valve that allows graywater flow to be directed between beneficial reuse and either an approved sewerage system, or a functioning onsite wastewater treatment system or holding tank system approved under OAR 340-071. The graywater diversion valve must be readily accessible and clearly labelled. The diversion valve must be constructed of material that is durable, corrosion resistant, watertight and designed to accommodate the inlet and outlet pipes in a secure and watertight manner. 

 (4) Cross connection control. A person may not install a direct-connection between a potable water supply system and graywater reuse and disposal system. The department may authorize in writing the discharge of potable water to a graywater reuse and disposal system that uses an air gap separation or other back flow prevention device allowed under Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code and has been permitted by the community water system having jurisdiction. 

 (5) Storage and surge tanks. A person may install a graywater reuse and disposal system storage or surge tank only if it is: 

 (a) Sized to accommodate peak graywater flow; 

 (b) Fitted with controls to limit access to humans, domestic pets and vectors; 

 (c) Installed below ground on level, well-compacted soil, or above ground on a level, stable footing, per the manufacturer’s installation instructions; 

 (d) Equipped with an antibuoyancy device, if installed below ground where high groundwater could dislodge the tank; 

 (e) Designed to prevent overturning, if installed above ground; 

 (f) Labelled with “Caution — Non-potable Water — Not Safe to Drink” to identify it as containing non-potable water; and 

 (g) Fitted with an overflow drain with a diameter at least equal to that of the inlet that flows by gravity to an approved sewerage system, or a functioning onsite wastewater treatment system or holding tank system approved under OAR 340-071. The overflow drain must not be equipped with a shutoff valve. 

 (6) Distribution system. A person may not install a graywater reuse and disposal system unless the distribution system, excluding irrigation components, satisfies the following requirements: 

 (a) All piping and other plumbing components must be listed by an ANSI accredited product listing program. 

 (b) System components must be properly identified as to the manufacturer. 

 (c) Installation must conform to the equipment and installation methods identified by the manufacturer and product listing. 

 (d) All exterior graywater piping, valves and other graywater equipment must be marked or labelled to identify it as containing non-potable water. All exterior piping and tanks must be labelled: “Caution — Non-potable Water — Not Safe to Drink.” 

 (7) Irrigation system. A person installing a graywater irrigation system must ensure the irrigation components are marked or labeled as containing non-potable water and meet the irrigation specifications in the system design plan. 

 (8) Graywater reuse and disposal system abandonment. A person abandoning a graywater reuse and disposal system must remove the graywater diversion valve and direct all graywater flow to an approved sewerage system or an onsite wastewater treatment system approved under OAR 340-071. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 454.610, 454.625, 468.020 & 468B.010 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 454.610, 454.615, 468B.020 & 468B.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 59-2018, minor correction filed 04/04/2018, effective 04/04/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 15-2011, f. & cert. ef. 9-12-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
