



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 MATERIALS SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 333-125-0185 
 Physical Protection in Transit: Requirements for Physical Protection of Category 1 and Category 2 Quantities of Radioactive Material During Shipment 
 
 (1)(a) Shipments by road. Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a category 1 quantity of radioactive material shall:  (A) Ensure that movement control centers are established that maintain position information from a remote location. These control centers must monitor shipments 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and have the ability to communicate immediately, in an emergency, with the appropriate law enforcement agencies.  (B) Ensure that redundant communications are established that allow the transport to contact the escort vehicle (when used) and movement control center at all times. Redundant communications may not be subject to the same interference factors as the primary communication.  (C) Ensure that shipments are continuously and actively monitored by a telemetric position monitoring system or an alternative tracking system reporting to a movement control center. A movement control center must provide positive confirmation of the location, status, and control over the shipment. The movement control center must be prepared to promptly implement preplanned procedures in response to deviations from the authorized route or a notification of actual, attempted, or suspicious activities related to the theft, loss, or diversion of a shipment. These procedures will include, but not be limited to, the identification of and contact information for the appropriate LLEA along the shipment route.  (D) Provide an individual to accompany the driver for those highway shipments with a driving time period greater than the maximum number of allowable hours of service in a 24 hour duty day as established by the Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. The accompanying individual may be another driver.  (E) Develop written normal and contingency procedures to address:  (i) Notifications to the communication center and law enforcement agencies;  (ii) Communication protocols. Communication protocols must include a strategy for the use of authentication codes and duress codes and provisions for refueling or other stops, detours, and locations where communication is expected to be temporarily lost;  (iii) Loss of communications; and  (iv) Responses to an actual or attempted theft or diversion of a shipment.  (b) Each licensee who makes arrangements for the shipment of category 1 quantities of radioactive material shall ensure that drivers, accompanying personnel, and movement control center personnel have access to the normal and contingency procedures.  (c) Each licensee that transports category 2 quantities of radioactive material shall maintain constant control and surveillance during transit and have the capability for immediate communication to summon appropriate response or assistance.  (d) Each licensee who delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a category 2 quantity of radioactive material shall:  (A) Use carriers that have established package tracking systems. An established package tracking system is a documented, proven, and reliable system routinely used to transport objects of value. In order for a package tracking system to maintain constant control and surveillance, the package tracking system must allow the shipper or transporter to identify when and where the package was last and when it may arrive at the next point of control.  (B) Use carriers that maintain constant control and surveillance during transit and have the capability for immediate communication to summon appropriate response or assistance; and  (C) Use carriers that have established tracking systems that require an authorized signature prior to releasing the package for delivery or return.  (2)(a) Shipments by rail. Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a category 1 quantity of radioactive material shall:  (A) Ensure that rail shipments are monitored by a telemetric position monitoring system or an alternative tracking system reporting to the licensee, third-party, or railroad communications center. The communications center shall provide positive confirmation of the location of the shipment and its status. The communications center shall implement preplanned procedures in response to deviations from the authorized route or to a notification of actual, attempted, or suspicious activities related to the theft or diversion of a shipment. These procedures will include, but not be limited to, the identification of and contact information for the appropriate LLEA along the shipment route.  (B) Ensure that periodic reports to the communications center are made at preset intervals.  (b) Each licensee who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, in a single shipment, a category 2 quantity of radioactive material shall:  (A) Use carriers that have established package tracking systems. An established package tracking system is a documented, proven, and reliable system routinely used to transport objects of value. In order for a package tracking system to maintain constant control or surveillance, the package tracking system must allow the shipper or transporter to identify when and where the package was last and when it may arrive at the next point of control.  (B) Use carriers that maintain constant control or surveillance during transit and have the capability for immediate communication to summon appropriate response or assistance; and  (C) Use carriers that have established tracking systems that require an authorized signature prior to releasing the package for delivery or return.  (3) Investigations:  (a) Each licensee who makes arrangements for the shipment of category 1 quantities of radioactive material shall immediately conduct an investigation upon the discovery that a category 1 shipment is lost or missing.  (b) Each licensee who makes arrangements for the shipment of category 2 quantities of radioactive material shall immediately conduct an investigation, in coordination with the receiving licensee, of any shipment that has not arrived by the designated no-later-than arrival time. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.635 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.635 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 19-2015, f. 9-30-15, cert. ef. 10-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
