



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 PRODUCE STANDARDS 
 603-051-0619 
 Definitions of Terms 
 
 As used in these standards:  (1) “Well-Formed” means that the fruit has the shape characteristic of the variety. Doubles shall not be considered well-formed.  (2) “Mature” means that the fruit has reached the stage of maturity which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process.  (3) “Sunscald” means injury caused by the sun in which softening or collapse of the flesh is apparent.  (4) “Damage” means any injury or defect which materially affects the appearance, or edible or shipping quality of the fruit. Internal growth cracks, cavities, or gum spots are not considered damage. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as damage:  (a) Broken skins which are unhealed; except those caused by pull stems where the skin is not torn beyond the stem basin. (Healed skin breaks shall be handled as scars.);  (b) Heat injury which is extensive or not light in color;  (c) External growth cracks, when there are more than one on a fruit, or when any growth crack is deep, not well healed, or more than 1/4 inch in length;  (d) Sunburn which has materially changed the normal color of the fruit, or has caused the skin to blister or crack;  (e) Split pit which causes a readily apparent crack at the stem end, or which affects the shape to the extent that the fruit is not well-formed;  (f) Hail marks, or other similar depressions or scars, which are not shallow or superficial, or which aggregate more than 3/8 inch in diameter, or when the skin has been broken;  (g) Drought spots or external gum spots which are more than 1/4 of an inch in diameter;  (h) Russeting which is not excessively rough, when aggregating more than 10 percent of the fruit surface; or excessively rough russeting when aggregating more than 1/4 inch in diameter;  (i) Scars. Dark, rough depressed scars which aggregate more than 1/4 inch in diameter:  (A) Fairly smooth, superficial scars, including fairly light discoloration such as is caused by handling or packing or by prunes rubbing against each other while on the tree, which aggregate more than 1/2 inch in diameter;  (B) Thorn and limb scratches which are not well healed, or which aggregate more than 1/2 inch in length.  (5) “Well Colored” as applied to Italian type prunes, means that 95 percent of the surface of the prune is purple color, excepting that portion which is permitted to be affected by russeting.  (6) “Fairly Well Colored” as applied to Italian type prunes, means that at least 3/4 of the surface of the prune is purple color.  (7) “Diameter” means the greatest distance measured through the center of the fruit, at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.  (8) “Badly Misshapen” means that the fruit is so malformed or rough that its appearance is seriously damaged. Doubles shall be considered badly misshapen, except that doubles of Italian type prunes which have approximately equal sized halves shall not be considered badly misshapen.  (9) “Serious Damage” means any injury or defect which seriously affects the appearance, edible, or shipping quality of the fruit. Any one of the following defects, or any combination of defects, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as serious damage:  (a) Broken skins which are unhealed and more than 1/8 inch in diameter or depth, except those caused by pulled stems where the skin is not torn beyond the stem basin. (Healed skin breaks shall be handled as scars.);  (b) Heat injury which causes any softening or dark discoloration of the flesh. Heat injury may cause internal or external discoloration, and may or may not be serious. It should not be confused with sunscald which causes softening or collapse of the tissue, and which is always classed as serious damage;  (c) External growth cracks which are not well healed, or which are more than 3/16 inch in depth, or more than 1/2 inch in length;  (d) Sunburn which causes decided flattening of the fruit, or causes blistering, cracking, or noticeable brownish discoloration of the skin;  (e) Split pit which causes a crack at the stem end more than 3/16 inch in length, including any part which may be covered by the stem; or which affects the shape to the extent that the fruit is badly misshapen;  (f) Hail marks which are more than 3/16 inch in depth, or which aggregate more than 1/2 inch in diameter;  (g) Drought spots or external gum spots which aggregate more than 1/2 inch in diameter;  (h) Russeting which is not excessively rough, when aggregating more than 1/3 of the fruit surface; or excessively rough russeting when aggregating more than 1/2 inch in diameter.  (i) Scars which are very dark or excessively rough and aggregate more than 1/2 inch in diameter; or which are more than 3/16 inch in depth.  (10) “Fairly Uniform Size” means that the fruits in each packed container shall not show a variation of more than 1/4 of an inch in diameter. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & 632.900 - 632.980 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 632.900 - 632.980 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 976(9-72), f. 8-24-72, ef. 9-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 797(4-65), f. 6-7-65, ef. 7-1-65 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
