



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Chapter 407 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 EMPLOYMENT FIRST AND SERVICES ADVANCING COMPETITIVE INTEGRATED EMPLOYMENT FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH INTELLECTUAL OR DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITES 
 407-025-0115 
 Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee 
 
 (1) A Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee shall be formed to advise state agencies and the Governor on strategies for increasing opportunities for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities to obtain, maintain, and advance in competitive integrated employment.     
(2) The Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee shall:  
(a) Recommend outcome metrics aimed at assessing the delivery of employment services described in these rules.  
(b) Meet at least quarterly, and at least annually to review the Employment First Outcome Report. 
(c) Make recommendations for the development and implementation of a statewide Employment First Strategic Plan.  
(d) Make policy and budget recommendations to the Office of the Governor and state agencies regarding employment outcomes for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities and state and local workforce plans. 
(3) The Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee may appoint subcommittees as needed. 
(4) The members of the Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee shall include:  
(a) Individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities. 
(b) Disability policy advisors who have lived experience with accessing the disability service delivery system. 
(c) Representatives of the division of the Department that provides developmental disabilities services. 
(d) Representatives of the division of the Department that provides vocational rehabilitation services. 
(e) Representatives of the Department of Education. 
(f) Representatives of employment services providers and provider associations. 
(g) Representatives of organizations that provide case management services to individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities. 
(5) The members of the Statewide Employment First Advisory Committee may also include representatives of: 
(a) School districts and education service districts. 
(b) Regional family support networks. 
(c) The nine federally recognized Indian tribes in Oregon. 
(d) The Oregon Council on Developmental Disabilities. 
(e) Oregon’s federally mandated disability protection and advocacy agency. 
(f) Oregon’s federally authorized university centers for excellence in developmental disabilities. 
(g) The Oregon Disabilities Commission. 
(h) The State Independent Living Council. 
(i) The Commission for the Blind. 
(j) State and county behavioral health departments. 
(k) The division of the Department that provides aging and people with disabilities services. 
(l) The State Workforce and Talent Development Board and local workforce development boards. 
(m) The Oregon Health Authority.  
(n) The State Rehabilitation Council.  
(o) Other statewide entities providing employment services to individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 & Oregon Laws 2025, Chapter 228 (Senate Bill 810) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050, 427.007 & Oregon Laws 2025, Chapter 228 (Senate Bill 810) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHS 3-2025, amend filed 12/23/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHSD 5-2015, f. 8-7-15, cert. ef. 8-9-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
