



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 CLINICAL LABORATORIES 
 333-024-0043 
 Quality Assurance
 
 
 (1) Each laboratory performing physician performed microscopy, moderate or high complexity testing must establish and follow written policies and procedures for a comprehensive quality assurance program which is designed to monitor and evaluate the ongoing and overall quality of the total testing process (pre-analytic, analytic, post-analytic). 

 (2) The laboratory’s quality assurance program must evaluate the effectiveness of its policies and procedures; identify and correct problems; assure the accurate, reliable and prompt reporting of test results; and assure the adequacy and competency of the staff. 

 (3) The laboratory must meet the requirements of this rule as they apply to the services offered, complexity of testing performed, test results reported, and the unique practices of each testing entity. 

 (4) The laboratory must monitor, evaluate, and revise, if necessary, based on the results of its evaluations, the following: 

 (a) The criteria established for patient preparation, specimen collection, labeling, preservation and transportation; 

 (b) The information solicited and obtained on the laboratory’s test requisition for its completeness, relevance, and necessity for the testing of patient specimens; 

 (c) The use and appropriateness of the criteria established for specimen rejection; 

 (d) The completeness, usefulness, and accuracy of the test report information necessary for the interpretation or utilization of test results; 

 (e) The timely reporting of test results based on testing priorities (for example, STAT, routine); and 

 (f) The accuracy and reliability of test reporting systems, appropriate storage of records and retrieval of test results. 

 (5) The laboratory must have an ongoing mechanism to evaluate the corrective actions taken under remedial action. 

 (6) Ineffective policies and procedures must be revised based on the outcome of the evaluation. The mechanism must evaluate and review the effectiveness of corrective actions taken for: 

 (a) Problems identified during the evaluation of calibration and control data for each test method; 

 (b) Problems identified during the evaluation of patient test values for the purpose of verifying the reference range of a test method; and 

 (c) Errors detected in reported results. 

 (7) The corrective actions taken for any unacceptable, unsatisfactory, or unsuccessful proficiency testing result(s) must be evaluated for effectiveness. 

 (8) If a laboratory performs the same test using different methodologies or instruments, or performs the same test at multiple testing sites, the laboratory must have a system that twice a year evaluates and defines the relationship between test results using the different methodologies, instruments, or testing sites. 

 (9) If a laboratory performs tests that are not included in an approved proficiency testing program, the laboratory must have a system for verifying the accuracy of its test results at least twice a year. 

 (10) The laboratory must have a mechanism to identify and evaluate patient test results that appear inconsistent with relevant criteria including: 

 (a) Patient age; 

 (b) Sex; 

 (c) Diagnosis or pertinent clinical data, when provided; 

 (d) Distribution of patient test results, when available; and 

 (e) Relationship with other test parameters, when available within the laboratory. 

 (11) The laboratory must have an ongoing mechanism to evaluate the effectiveness of its policies and procedures for assuring employee competence and, if applicable, consultant competence: 

 (a) The assessment of employee competence must be biannually the first year of employment; and 

 (b) Annually thereafter. 

 (12) The laboratory must have a system in place to document problems that occur as a result of breakdowns in communication between the laboratory and the authorized individual who orders or receives the results of test procedures or examinations; Corrective actions must be taken and documented, as necessary, to resolve the problems and minimize communications breakdowns. 

 (13) The laboratory must have a system in place to assure that all complaints and problems are documented. Investigations of complaints must be made and appropriate corrective actions instituted. 

 (14) The laboratory must have a mechanism for documenting and assessing problems identified during quality assurance reviews and discussing them with the staff. The laboratory must take corrective actions necessary to prevent recurrences. 

 (15) The laboratory must maintain documentation of all quality assurance activities including problems identified and corrective actions taken. 

 (16) All quality assurance records must be available to the Public Health Division and maintained for a period of two years. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 438.040 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 21-2026, amend filed 05/20/2026, effective 05/21/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 6-1995, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
