



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 54 RESIDENTIAL CARE AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES 
 411-054-0106 
 Regulatory Framework 
 
 (1) PURPOSE. The goal of the regulatory framework is to provide transparency, accuracy, and equity related to regulatory actions taken by the Department in response to facilities’ lack of substantial compliance with Oregon Administrative Rules. The framework should include application of preventative, positive, and progressively more restrictive measures taken by the Department in response to facilities’ lack of substantial compliance with Oregon Administrative Rules. Whenever possible and appropriate, the framework shall be based on a progressive method of regulation based on scope and severity, which includes positive reinforcement, as well as sanctions and penalties. 

 (2) FOCUS. The framework will address measures related to the scope and severity of noncompliance, including but not limited to: 

 (a) Whether the facility has qualified awake direct care staff in consistent numbers to consistently meet the scheduled and unscheduled needs of each resident 24 hours a day; and 

 (b) The impact of any compliance deficiencies on the rights, health, welfare and safety of the residents. 

 (3) PROCESS. The framework will provide information on processes related to the Department’s: 

 (a) Accurate and equitable assessment of substantial compliance based on regulatory requirements. 

 (b) Employment of progressive and positive action to promote and achieve facility substantial compliance. 

 (c) Accurate and equitable imposition of corrective actions. 

 (d) Administration of Enhanced Oversight Program to focus compliance activities on facilities that consistently fail to achieve substantial compliance. 

 (4) TECHNIQUES. Regulatory compliance will be promoted through the use of progressive compliance techniques, as appropriate, including, but not limited to: 

 (a) Proactive communication. 

 (b) Technical support to facilities. 

 (c) Consultation with policy analysts to clarify regulatory requirements. 

 (d) Corrective action involving civil penalties. 

 (e) Imposition of sanctions, including, but not limited to conditions on a provider’s license. 

 (f) Suspension, non-renewal or revocation of license. 

 (5) ENHANCED OVERSIGHT AND SUPERVISION PROGRAM. 

 (a) Facilities that consistently demonstrate a lack of substantial compliance with the requirements of rules adopted to regulate residential care facilities or assisted living facilities or perform substantially below statewide averages on quality metrics will be considered for the Enhanced Oversight and Supervision Program. “Consistently” is defined as regularly and typically for purposes of this rule. 

 (b) The Department shall take one or more of the following actions, the Department deems necessary, to improve the performance of a facility: 

 (A) Increase the frequency of surveys of the facility. 

 (B) Conduct surveys that focus on areas of consistent non-compliance as identified by the Department. 

 (C) Impose one or more conditions on the license of the facility. 

 (c) The Department shall terminate the enhanced oversight and supervision of a facility as follows, after: 

 (A) Three years, if the facility has shown substantial compliance according to the Department; or 

 (B) One year, if the facility submits a written assertion of substantial compliance and the Department determines the facility no longer meets the criteria of the program. 

 (d) The Department shall publish notice on the Department’s licensing website of any facility enrolled in the Enhanced Oversight and Supervision program. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 443.450 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.400 - 443.455 & 443.991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 55-2021, amend filed 12/09/2021, effective 12/15/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 19-2018, adopt filed 06/29/2018, effective 06/29/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
