



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 WASTEWATER SERVICE REGULATION FOR JOINT WATER/WASTEWATER UTILITIES 
 860-037-0015 
 Information for Customers and Applicants 
 
 (1) Upon request, the wastewater utility shall furnish customers or applicants with such information as is reasonable to permit such customers to secure efficient service.  (2) A wastewater utility shall keep on file and open for public inspection at its offices: complete rate schedules, contract forms, rules and regulations of the utility, and a copy of the Commission’s rules and regulations.  (3) Upon request, the wastewater utility shall supply a copy of its approved tariffed rates applicable to the type or types of wastewater service furnished to the customer by the wastewater utility.  (4) When service is initiated and not less than once each year thereafter, a wastewater utility shall give its customers a written summary of the customers’ rights and responsibilities, as they relate to the wastewater utility providing service. If service is initiated without a personal contact between the utility and the customer, the wastewater utility shall mail the summary to the customer no later than when the first bill statement is mailed. The summary shall include the text approved by the Commission’s Consumer Services Section and describe:  (a) The customer’s option to designate a third party to receive bills and notices and the availability of notices in languages other than English;  (b) Special payment options such as equal payment plans. Any late-payment charges shall be explained, along with the availability of any preferred billing date option;  (c) Procedures for conflict resolution, including how to register a dispute with the utility and with the Commission and the toll-free number of the Commission’s Consumer Services Section: 1-800-522-2404 or TTY 711.  (5) When service is initiated, the wastewater utility shall inquire if the customer would like to receive notices in a language other than English and will inform the customer of the types of notices and translations currently available. If the language chosen is not available, the utility will inform the customer or applicant that the translated version does not yet exist, but that the customer or applicant’s interest will be recorded for the Commission. Each utility shall report to the Commission the number of requests for notices and summaries in non-English languages. The report shall specify the number of requests for each language.  (a) The Commission will translate the Rights and Responsibilities Summary for Oregon Utility Consumers into the designated non-English languages and provide copies to the wastewater utilities. The information published by a wastewater utility pursuant to OAR 860-037-0015 shall prominently display the following statement in the designated non-English languages at the beginning of the summary and be printed in boldface: A version of the Rights and Responsibilities Summary for Oregon Utility Consumers printed in this language is available by calling (name of utility) at (phone number).  (6) Each wastewater utility shall maintain a business location and a regular telephone number at which it may be contacted directly by customers, applicants, or the Commission during its regular business hours. The utility shall respond to nonemergency customer inquiries, complaints, and service problems within a reasonable time period. For purposes of this rule, a reasonable time period is considered to be within 24 hours.  (7) Each wastewater utility must provide a means by which it may be contacted at any hour in the event of a service failure or emergency or at which a customer or applicant may leave a message reporting such failure or emergency.  (8) Notices approved by the Commission shall be posted in a conspicuous place in each wastewater utility office where credit matters are transacted, setting forth the rights and responsibilities of customers under these rules. The notices shall be printed and shall be written in language that is easy to understand. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 757.005 & 757.061 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 5-2004, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2000, f. 4-18-00, cert. ef. 4-20-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 9-1999(Temp), f. 10-22-99, cert. ef. 10-23-99 thru 4-19-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
