



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 34 SMALL TELECOMMUNICATIONS UTILITIES AND COOPERATIVES 
 860-034-0040 
 Information for Utility Customers and Applicants 
 
 (1) Each small telecommunications utility shall, upon request, furnish each customer and applicant with such information as is reasonable to permit them to secure efficient service.  (2) Each small telecommunications utility shall keep on file and open for public inspection at its offices, complete rate schedules, contract forms, rules and regulations of the utility, and a copy of the Commission’s rules and regulations.  (3) Each small telecommunications utility shall supply, upon request, a copy of the tariffs applicable to the type or types of service furnished to the customer by the utility.  (4) Upon application for new service, or upon subsequent request, the small telecommunications utility shall assist the customer or applicant in selecting the most advantageous rate to meet individual service requirements. The customer or applicant shall be responsible for making the final selection of a rate schedule.  (5) When service is initiated and not less than once each year thereafter, every small telecommunications utility shall give its residential customers a written summary of their rights and responsibilities. If service is initiated without a personal visit between the small telecommunications utility and the customer, the utility shall mail the summary to the customer no later than when the first bill statement is mailed. A small telecommunications utility satisfies the annual notification requirement by prominent publication of the information in a telephone directory distributed to its customers annually. The summary shall include the text of a summary prepared by the Commission’s Consumer Services Division or prepared by the small telecommunications utility and approved by the Commission that describes:  (a) The customer’s option to designate a third party to receive bills and notices and the availability of notices in languages other than English;  (b) Applicable financial assistance programs, such as the Oregon Telephone Assistance Program and Link-Up America;  (c) The availability of medical certificates;  (d) Special payment options. Late-payment charges, if any, shall be explained, along with the availability of any preferred billing date option;  (e) Procedures for conflict resolution, including how to register a dispute with the small telecommunications utility and with the Commission and the toll-free number of the Commission’s Consumer Services Division;  (f) Listings of consumer organizations that participate in Commission proceedings, including addresses and telephone numbers, may be requested from the Commission’s Consumer Services Division; and  (g) The Commission’s telephone solicitation rules.  (6) When service is initiated, the small telecommunications utility shall inquire whether the customer would like to receive notices in a language other than English and will inform the customer of the type of notices and translations currently available. If the language chosen is not available, the small telecommunications utility will tell the customer the translated version does not yet exist, but that the customer’s interest will be recorded for the Commission. Each small telecommunications utility shall retain a record of the number of requests for notices and summaries in non-English languages in a format that can be forwarded to the Commission immediately upon request. The reports shall specify the number of requests for each language.  (7) Notices approved by the Commission shall be posted in a conspicuous place in each small telecommunications utility office where credit matters are transacted, setting forth the rights and responsibilities of customers under these rules. The notices shall be printed in large boldface type and shall be written in language that is easy to understand. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 759 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 759.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 15-2001, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 4-1999, f. & cert. ef. 8-12-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 12-1998, f. & cert. ef. 5-7-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-1993, f. & cert. ef. 2-19-93 (Order No. 93-185) 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
