



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-0310 
 Working Surfaces 
 
 (1) Scope. This section applies to all places of agricultural employment. Measures to control toxic materials are outside the scope of this section.  (2) Housekeeping. Floors, work areas, aisles and passageways must be in good repair and must not have protruding nails, unevenness, obstructions, debris or loose boards that create a hazard.  (3) Aisles, walkways, inclines and passageways.  (a) There must be sufficient clearance for safe operation of mechanical handling equipment in aisles, at loading docks, through doorways and at turns. Aisles and passageways must be clear and in good repair with no obstructions that could be a hazard.  (b) Mark permanent aisles and passageways.  (c) Aisles, passageways, and walkways must be wide enough for safe work but never less than 22 inches wide. Passageways more than 4 feet above the ground or floor level must have standard guardrails.  (d) Fixed inclined walkways must be at least 22 inches wide, incline at no more than 24 degrees and be securely fastened at the top and bottom. They must have guardrails on each open side.  (e) Inclined walkways that may be slippery must have anti-slip surfaces or cleats secured at uniform intervals of not more than 18 inches, and extending the full width of the walkway.  (f) Inclines from floor to floor, without open sides, used instead of stairways must have standard railings according to the requirements for stairways.  (g) Ramps for wheelbarrows, if made of planking, must have an odd number of planks with no cleats on the center plank.  (4) Covers and guardrails. There must be covers and/or guardrails to protect people from the hazards of open pits, tanks, vats, excavations, etc.  (5) Surface loads. For all new and remodel construction after December 1, 1997, post the load capacities on overhead storage areas. Do not allow overloading.  (6) Barriers. There must be protective barriers or suitable guards for uncovered openings or excavations that are accessible to vehicle or pedestrian traffic. Use warning lights or flares if working at night.  (7) Vertical clearances. There must be a vertical clearance of at least 6-1/2 feet over work areas. Where it is impractical to provide this clearance, use padding, contrasting paint or similar warnings on overhead obstructions.  NOTE: This does not apply to crop storage areas where people are there for short periods.  (8) Working above other workers. Areas above other workers, for handling or mixing acids, caustics, or other harmful materials must have water-tight floors that drain to a safe location, except where workers underneath wear personal protective equipment suitable for the hazard. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
