



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 38 DIRECT ACCESS REGULATION 
 860-038-0275 
 Direct Access Annual Announcement and Election Period 
 
 (1) On November 15 of each year (or the next business day if November 15 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday as defined by ORS 187.010), each electric company must announce the prices to be charged for electricity services in the next calendar year. The date on which the electric companies are required to announce such prices is "the Announcement Date."  (2) Electric companies must allow retail electricity customers that are eligible for direct access at least five business days after the Announcement Date to choose service under a cost-of-service rate option or to purchase electricity from either an electricity service supplier through direct access or an electric company through a standard rate offer.  (3) At least five business days before the Announcement Date, electric companies and electricity service suppliers must announce, and post on their websites, estimates of prices for electricity services in the subsequent calendar year or subsequent contract period if different than a calendar year:  (a) All electric companies and electricity service suppliers must continuously post the estimated prices announced under this rule on their websites until the Announcement Date.  (b) Electric companies' estimated prices will be the companies' estimates of the electricity service prices that will be in effect for the calendar year subsequent to the Announcement Date.  (c) Electricity service suppliers will determine estimated prices that will allow electricity consumers to compare the estimated prices of the electric company and electricity service supplier for the subsequent calendar year, or contract period if different than a calendar year.  (d) Announcing estimated prices as required by this rule creates no obligation on the part of the electric companies and/or electricity service suppliers to provide electricity service to any consumer at the estimated prices.  (e) If an electricity service supplier does not intend to sell electricity services in the subsequent calendar year or contract period, the electricity service supplier must announce, and post on a web site, that it does not intend to sell electricity services in the subsequent calendar year or contract period.  (4) Thirty days prior to the Announcement Date, electric companies and electricity service suppliers shall provide to the Commission a URL address for a website where the individual electric company or electricity service supplier will post prices and announcements as prescribed by this rule. The Commission will post the URL addresses on its website.  (5) At least once each year, electric companies must offer customers a multi-year direct access program with an associated fixed transition adjustment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & 757.600 - 757.667 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 13-2004, f. & cert. ef. 8-31-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
