



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Chapter 943 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 120 PROVIDER RULES 
 943-120-0200 
 Authority System Administration 
 
 (1) No individual or entity shall be registered to conduct a web portal or an EDI transaction with the Authority except as authorized under these the rules. Eligibility and continued participation as a provider, CCO, PHP, allied agency or web portal submitter in the conduct of DDE transactions, or as a trading partner or EDI submitter in the conduct of registered transactions, is conditioned on the execution and delivery of the documents required in these rules, the continued accuracy of that information consistent with OAR 943-120-0190, and compliance with a requirements of these rules. Data, including confidential information, governed by these rules may be used for purposes related to treatment, payment, and health care operations and for the administration of programs or services by the Authority.  (2) In addition to the requirements of section (1) of this rule, in order to qualify as a trading partner:  (a) An individual or entity must be a Authority provider, CCO, PHP, clinic, or allied agency pursuant to a current valid contract; and  (b) A provider, CCO, PHP, clinic, or allied agency must have submitted an executed TPA and all related documentation, including the application for authorization that identifies and authorizes an EDI submitter.  (3) In addition to the requirements of section (1) of this rule, in order to qualify as an EDI submitter:  (a) A trading partner must have identified the individual or entity as an authorized EDI submitter in the application for authorization;  (b) If a trading partner identifies itself as an EDI submitter, the application for authorization must include the information required in the "Trading Partner Authorization of EDI Submitter" and the "EDI Submitter Information"; and  (c) If a trading partner uses an agent as an EDI submitter, the application for authorization must include the information described in section (3)(b) and the signed EDI submitter certification.  (4) The EDI registration process described in these rules provides the Authority with essential profile information that the Authority may use to confirm that a trading partner or EDI submitter is not otherwise excluded or disqualified from submitting EDI transactions to the Authority.  (5) Nothing in these rules or a TPA prevents the Authority from requesting additional information from a trading partner or an EDI submitter to determine their qualifications or eligibility for registration as a trading partner or EDI submitter.  (6) The Authority shall deny a request for registration as a trading partner or for authorization of an EDI submitter or an EDI registration if it finds any of the following:  (a) A trading partner or EDI submitter has substantially failed to comply with the applicable administrative rules or laws;  (b) A trading partner or EDI submitter has been convicted of (or entered a plea of nolo contendre) a felony or misdemeanor related to a crime or violation of federal or state public assistance laws or privacy statutes or regulations;  (c) A trading partner or EDI submitter is excluded from participation in the Medicare program, as determined by the DHHS secretary; or  (d) A trading partner or EDI submitter fails to meet the qualifications as a trading partner or EDI submitter.  (7) Failure to comply with these rules, trading partner agreement, or EDI submitter certification or failure to provide accurate information on an application or certification may also result in sanctions and payment recovery pursuant to applicable Authority program contracts or rules.  (8) For providers using the DDE submission system by the Authority web portal, failure to comply with the terms of these rules, a web portal registration form, or failure to provide accurate information on the registration form may result in sanctions or payment recovery pursuant to the applicable Authority program contracts or rules. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 414.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 413.042 & 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHA 7-2012, f. 10-9-12, cert. ef. 10-10-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHA 4-2012(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 7-12-12 thru 1-6-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHA 26-2011, f. 10-31-11, cert. ef. 11-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHA 13-2011(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 7-1-11 thru 12-27-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
