



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0090 
 Totalizator and Tote Board Operations 
 
 (1) The race meet licensee shall install, maintain in operable condition and operate continuously an electric totalizator during each meeting.  (2) A totalizator shall be so designed that it will indicate the total amounts and the amounts on each runner, entry and field so wagered from time to time as the wagering progresses. There shall be operated in connection with such totalizator one or more boards on which shall be prominently displayed, within view of the public, winning odds on each runner as indicated from time to time during the progress of such wagering, and at intervals of not more than ninety (90) seconds between each complete change. The totalizator shall be designed so that the ticket machines shall be automatically locked by the stewards or judges by the pressing of a button ringing what is commonly known as the “off bell.”  (3) The presiding steward or the presiding judge or his/her appointed official shall push the button that closes the pari-mutuel machines, and shall see to it that every effort in the racing operation is made by all departments to meet advertised post time.  (4) At no time shall the odds board display odds to figure less than a gross of 104 percent or more than a gross of 127 percent.  (5) Copies of all takeoff sheets from the totalizator, or otherwise, shall be delivered at once to the supervisor of mutuels or his/her representative.  (6) The calculator of the approximate odds shall keep a complete detailed record of each race containing each change of readings of odds, the percentage figures on the final reading and the actual possible “payoff” on each runner. Such records shall be delivered to the supervisor of mutuels at the end of each racing day.  (7) Any faulty operation of the totalizator or infield board (tote board) shall be explained in detail in a written report by the “tote operator,” and a copy of said report given to the manager of mutuels and to the state supervisor of mutuels without delay. Said report shall be immediately communicated to the Oregon Racing Commission.  (8) Whenever the totalizator mechanism fails and is obviously unreliable as to the amounts wagered, all figures on the “tote board” so affected shall be removed immediately and the payoff shall be computed on the sums wagered in each pool, as shown by the recapitulation of the sales registered by each individual ticket issuing machine.  (9) Whenever there is a difference in any pool or pools (i.e., a difference between the sum total of the wagers on individual runners as compared with the grand total as shown by the “tote board”), the larger amount shall be used as the base on which the commissions are computed and paid to the race meet licensee and to the state, respectively.  (10) If an error is made in posting the payoff prices on the “tote board,” it shall be corrected promptly, and the public shall be so advised of the correction by announcement over the public address system. The correct amounts so announced shall be used in the payoff, irrespective of the amounts posted on the “tote board.”  (11) Nothing in these rules shall be construed to prevent the stewards/judges from correcting an error before the display of the sign “Official.” If the “Official” sign is displayed in error, in the order of finish or incorrectly posted mutuel prices, and the error is discovered within forty eight (48) hours after the displaying of the “Official” sign, the pools and purses shall be calculated in the correct manner and the race meet licensee shall assume any losses. Holders of pari-mutuel tickets cashed prior to discovery of such error shall not have any claim for any additional or corrected amounts.  (12) Prices shall not be displayed before the race is “official” and prices shall be promptly displayed after the race is declared “official.” 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
