



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0040 
 Facilities Records 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the facilities records of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Building and Grounds Repair, Remodeling, and Construction Records: Records document the condition, upkeep, and routine maintenance of college buildings and grounds and the planning, administration, and implementation of current and potential capital construction projects on campus. It also documents remodeling and construction projects. Also used to forecast needs for projects and as a reference to projects completed. Records may include but are not limited to floor plans; specifications, layouts; sketches; maintenance agreements; work logs; fire marshal’s compliance and other building inspection reports; permits project descriptions and requirements; plan reviews; project schedules; and related documentation and correspondence. Series may also include records of remodeling or construction due to American Disability Act (ADA) requirements. (Minimum retention: Contracts or agreements documenting building construction, alterations, or repair: 10 years after substantial completion (ORS 12.080 and 12.135); Other records: for the life of the structure).  (2) Facilities Inventory Records: Records document the value of lands and buildings owned by the college and of the changes in utilization of space due to remodeling, minor reallocation, and new construction. Records may include but are not limited to inventories which list each campus building and parcel of real estate; the date acquired; property description; utilization of building space records; operating and maintenance cost records; inventory and other working documents which include the building name, room number and condition, type of space, and square footage; and related documentation and correspondence. Records include the records of buildings and lands on the main as well as branch or outreach campuses. (Minimum retention: Until superseded).  (3) Prevailing Wage Reports Records: Records document the prevailing wage rate schedule for workers on college construction projects. Records contain the certified payroll records of construction companies engaged in college projects. This information on prevailing wages is supplied to unions and other interested parties. Records may also contain annual planned project list and other documentation furnished by the Bureau of Labor and Industry. (Minimum retention: five years after completion of project).  (4) Swimming Pool Operation and Maintenance Records: Records document the operation and maintenance of college swimming pools. The records include water quality tests; records of filling, emptying and cleaning; operating and safety equipment repair and maintenance; and equipment warranties. (Minimum retention: Equipment records: for life of structure; Maintenance records: five years).  (5) Utility Systems and Equipment Operation Manuals and Maintenance Records: Records document the operations and maintenance of college utilities equipment. Records may include but are not limited to permits; equipment operations logs; mechanical readings charts; equipment maintenance histories; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Until equipment no longer in service). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
