



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 INSURANCE POLICIES 
 836-052-0738 
 Availability of New Services or Providers 
 
 (1) An insurer shall notify policyholders of the availability of a new long term policy series that provides coverage for new long term care services or providers that are material in nature and not previously available through the insurer to the general public. The notice shall be provided within 12 months of the date that the new policy series is made available for sale in this state.  (2) Notwithstanding section (1) of this rule, notification is not required for any policy issued prior to the effective date of this rule or to any policyholder or certificate holder who is currently eligible for benefits, within an elimination period or on a claim, or who previously had been in claim status, or who would not be eligible to apply for coverage due to issue age limitations under the new policy. The insurer may require that policyholders meet all eligibility requirements, including underwriting and payment of the required premium, to add such new services or providers.  (3) An insurer shall make the new coverage available in one of the following ways:  (a) By adding a rider to the existing policy and charging a separate premium for the new rider based on the insured’s attained age;  (b) By exchanging the existing policy or certificate for one with an issue age based on the present age of the insured and recognizing past insured status by granting premium credits toward the premiums for the new policy or certificate. The premium credits shall be based on premiums paid or reserves held for the prior policy or certificate.  (c) By exchanging the existing policy or certificate for a new policy or certificate in which consideration for past insured status shall be recognized by setting the premium for the new policy or certificate at the issue age of the policy or certificate being exchanged. The cost for the new policy or certificate may recognize the difference in reserves between the new policy or certificate and the original policy or certificate.  (d) By an alternative program developed by the insurer that meets the intent of this rule if the program is filed with and approved by the Director.  (4) An insurer is not required to notify policyholders of a new proprietary policy series created and filed for use in a limited distribution channel. For the purpose of this section, “limited distribution channel” means through a discrete entity, such as a financial institution or brokerage, for which specialized products are available that are not available for sale to the general public. Policyholders that purchased such a new proprietary policy shall be notified when a new long term care policy series that provides coverage for new long term care services or providers material in nature is made available to that limited distribution channel.  (5) A policy issued pursuant to this rule shall be considered an exchange and not a replacement. An exchange is not subject to OAR 836-052-0626 and 836-052-0726, and the reporting requirements of 836-052-0636(1) to (3).  (6) When a policy is offered through an employer, labor organization, professional, trade or occupational association, the required notification in section (1) of this rule must be made to the offering entity. However, if the policy is issued to a group defined in ORS 743. 650(3)(d), the notification shall be made to each certificate holder.  (7) Nothing in this rule prohibits an insurer from offering any policy, rider, certificate or coverage change to any policyholder or certificate holder. However, upon request, any policy holder may apply for currently available coverage that includes the new services or providers. The insurer may require that policyholders meet all eligibility requirements, including underwriting and payment of the required premium to add the new services or providers.  (8) This rule does not apply to life insurance policies or riders containing accelerated long term care benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Sec. 9, Ch. 486 & OL 2007 (Enrolled SB 191) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-2007, f. 12-3-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
