



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 TRADE PRACTICES 
 836-080-0680 
 Opt in Notice; Form of Opt Out Notice to Consumers and Opt Out Methods for Purpose of OAR 836-080-0675 
 
 (1) Form of opt in notice. The form of the disclosure authorization (the opt in form) is governed by OAR 836-080-0665 and is used with respect to disclosures of personal information that do not meet one or more of the conditions specified in 836-080-0670 or 836-080-0675.  (2) Form of opt out notice. Sections (2) to (10) of this rule govern the form of and requirements applicable to an opt out notice when the notice is required by OAR 836-080-0675. If a licensee is required to provide an opt out notice by 836-080-0675, the licensee shall accurately explain the right to opt out under that provision. The notice shall state:  (a) That the licensee discloses or reserves the right to disclose personal financial information about its consumer to a nonaffiliated third party;  (b) That the consumer has the right to opt out of that disclosure; and  (c) A reasonable means by which the consumer may exercise the opt out right.  (3) The following are examples for purposes of section (2) of this rule:  (a) Adequate opt out notice. A licensee provides adequate notice that the consumer may opt out of the disclosure of personal financial information to a nonaffiliated third party if the licensee:  (A) Identifies all of the categories of personal financial information that it discloses or reserves the right to disclose, and all of the categories of nonaffiliated third parties to which the licensee discloses the information as permitted by OAR 836-080-0675, and states that the consumer may opt out of the disclosure of that information; and  (B) Identifies the health insurance products or services that the consumer obtains from the licensee, either singly or jointly, to which the opt out direction would apply.  (b) Reasonable opt out means. A licensee provides a reasonable means to exercise an opt out right if it:  (A) Designates check-off boxes in a prominent position on the relevant forms with the opt out notice;  (B) Includes a reply form together with the opt out notice;  (C) Provides an electronic means to opt out, such as a form that can be sent by electronic mail or a process at the licensee's web site, if the consumer agrees to the electronic delivery of information; or  (D) Provides a toll-free telephone number that the consumers may call to opt out.  (c) Unreasonable opt out means. A licensee does not provide a reasonable means of opting out if:  (A) The only means of opting out is for the consumer to write the consumer's own letter to exercise that opt out right; or  (B) The only means of opting out as described in any notice subsequent to the initial notice is to use a check-off box that the licensee provided with the initial notice but did not include with the subsequent notice.  (d) Specific opt out means. A licensee may require each consumer to opt out through a specific means, as long as that means is reasonable for that consumer.  (4) Same form as initial notice permitted. A licensee may provide the opt out notice for purposes of OAR 836-080-0675 together with or on the same written or electronic form as the initial notice the licensee provides in accordance with 836-080-0636.  (5) Initial notice required when opt out notice delivered subsequent to initial notice. If a licensee provides the opt out notice later than required for the initial notice in accordance with OAR 836-080-0636, the licensee shall also include a copy of the initial notice with the opt out notice in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically.  (6) The following provisions of this section govern joint relationships:  (a) If two or more consumers jointly obtain a health insurance product or service from a licensee, the licensee may provide a single opt out notice. The licensee's opt out notice shall explain how the licensee will treat an opt out direction by a joint consumer as explained in subsection (e) of this section.  (b) Any of the joint consumers may exercise the right to opt out. The licensee may either:  (A) Treat an opt out direction by a joint consumer as applying to all of the associated joint consumers; or  (B) Permit each joint consumer to opt out separately.  (c) If a licensee permits each joint consumer to opt out separately, the licensee shall permit one of the joint consumers to opt out on behalf of all of the joint consumers.  (d) A licensee may not require all joint consumers to opt out before the licensee implements any opt out direction.  (e) The following is an example for purposes of this section. If John and Mary are both named policyholders on a health insurance policy issued by a licensee and the licensee sends policy statements to John's address, the licensee may do any of the following, but the licensee shall explain in the opt out notice of notice of the licensee which opt out policy the licensee will follow:  (A) Send a single opt out notice to John's address, but the licensee shall accept an opt out direction from either John or Mary.  (B) Treat an opt out direction by either John or Mary as applying to the entire policy. If the licensee does so and John opts out, the licensee may not require Mary to opt out as well before implementing John's opt out direction.  (C) Permit John and Mary to make different opt out directions. If the licensee does so:  (i) The licensee shall permit John and Mary to opt out for each other;  (ii) If both opt out, the licensee shall permit both of them to notify the licensee in a single response, such as on a form or through a telephone call; and  (iii) If John opts out and Mary does not, the licensee may disclose personal financial information only about Mary but not about John, and not about John and Mary jointly.  (7) Time to comply with opt out. A licensee shall comply with a consumer's opt out direction as soon as reasonably practicable after the licensee receives the direction.  (8) Continuing right to opt out. A consumer may exercise the right to opt out at any time.  (9) The duration of a consumer's opt out direction is governed as follows:  (a) A consumer's direction to opt out under this rule is effective until the consumer revokes it in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically.  (b) When a customer relationship terminates, the customer's opt out direction continues to apply to the personal financial information that the licensee collected during or related to that relationship. If the individual subsequently establishes a new customer relationship with the licensee, the opt out direction that applied to the former relationship does not apply to the new relationship.  (10) Delivery. When a licensee is required to deliver an opt out notice by this rule, the licensee shall deliver it according to OAR 836-080-0660. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 746.608 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 746.600 & 746.607 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 4-2005, f. & cert. ef. 4-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
