



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 ENERGY EFFICIENT DESIGN AND OPERATION FOR STATE AGENCY FACILITIES 
 330-130-0500 
 Use of Fuel Cell Power Systems 
 
 (1) This rule establishes the criteria for agencies to use when comparing fuel cell power systems to other equipment options as required by ORS 276.910.  (2) State agencies who are constructing or renovating a Class 1 building with an identified requirement for emergency backup power or with critical power application shall compare and evaluate, in collaboration with the design team, available equipment options, including fuel cell power systems, to meet the identified need. The evaluation shall include, but not be limited to:  (a) An evaluation of the emissions over the expected life cycle of the system, including the estimated activity related to standby, testing, maintenance, fueling, and operational activity. An agency may, if the information is available, consider the emissions generated during manufacturing and shipping of the equipment, including its components.  (b) A comparison and documentation demonstrating that the agency considered the environmental impact for the following:  (A) Nitrous Oxide;  (B) Sulfur Oxide;  (C) Carbon Monoxide;  (D) Carbon Dioxide;  (E) Other regulated particulates; and  (F) Any other pollutant identified by the agency.  (c) A comparison of the life cycle costs of all equipment under consideration, which may include estimates of acquisition, installation and commissioning, siting and permitting, maintenance, fueling and decommissioning and training costs; and  (d) An analysis of the ability of the systems to meet the design and stress needs of the application, the availability of fuel over the life cycle of the system and the availability of service support, maintenance and parts during system life cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276.910 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 276.910 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 12-2010, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
