



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 62 WILDLIFE REHABILITATION 
 635-062-0025 
 Restricted Species with Conditions 
 
 The following native wildlife require Department notification upon receipt by a permittee. Placement, care conditions, and final disposition will be determined by the Department.  (1) Healthy young-of-the-year animals that are not known to be orphaned should not be captured or removed from the wild.  (a) Young-of-the-year wildlife with unknown orphaned status includes those with no accompanying adult nearby and animals collected when the maternal animal is not observed as deceased.  (b) All young-of-the-year animals of unknown or questionable orphaned status and taken from the wild should be immediately returned to the place where they were collected if not held longer than 48 hours.  (c) Permittees should contact their district biologist for situations involving extenuating circumstances including animals that cannot be returned to the nest or collection site.  (2) Black bear (Ursus americanus). Permittees must notify the local Department district wildlife biologist immediately upon receipt of a black bear into their facility.  (a) All black bear will be immediately transferred to Department veterinary staff at the ODFW Wildlife Health Lab for health and behavior evaluations and placement in a Department-approved Association of Zoos and Aquarium (AZA) accredited facility, approved-black bear cub rehabilitation facility, or other disposition as determined by the Department.  (b) Non-AZA accredited zoos available for holding black bear cubs will be approved by the Department veterinarian or division administrator and must meet minimum caging specifications and standards for design and construction (Exhibit 1 Caging and Enclosure Standards for the Rehabilitation of Black Bears and Ungulates) and specific requirements for animal handling and monitoring, and animal care prior to placement.  (c) Orphaned black bear cubs meeting conditions as candidates for rehabilitation will only be rehabilitated in Department pre-approved facilities designed for orphaned wild black bear cub rehabilitation that meet all Department specifications for caging standards (Exhibit 1 Caging and Enclosure Standards for the Rehabilitation of Black Bears and Ungulates) including specific requirements for animal handling and monitoring, and animal care.  (d) Oregon wildlife rehabilitation facilities desiring to rehabilitate black bear cubs require prior Department approval and must meet all minimum caging specifications and standards (Exhibit 1 Caging and Enclosure Standards for the Rehabilitation of Black Bears and Ungulates) including specific requirements for animal handling and monitoring, and animal care prior to placement.  (3) Deer (Odocoileus hemionus and 0. virginianus), elk (Cervus elaphus), pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana), bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) or moose (Alces alces) may be rehabilitated under the following conditions:  (a) Orphaned deer, elk, pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, mountain goat, or moose received by a wildlife rehabilitator and born during the year received may be held and rehabilitated from birth through September 30 of the year received. Orphaned animals must be released to the wild prior to September 30 of the year received to the area of initial collection or an appropriate location determined by the District biologist. Extenuating circumstances for holding orphaned ungulates beyond September 30 requires written approval by the local Department district wildlife biologist.  (b) Injured or diseased deer, elk, pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, mountain goat, or moose received after September 30 of their birth year must be humanely euthanized unless otherwise authorized in writing by the Department district wildlife biologist.  (c) Orphaned deer, elk, pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, or moose will only be rehabilitated in Department pre-approved facilities designed for orphaned wild ungulate rehabilitation that meet all Department specifications in Exhibit 1 Caging and Enclosure Standards for the Rehabilitation of Black Bears and Ungulates including pen standards for design and construction, animal handling and monitoring, and animal care.  (d) All wildlife rehabilitators must notify the local Department district wildlife biologist within 24 hours of receiving any orphaned deer, elk, pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, or moose. Unless held in a Department approved facility, orphaned deer, elk, pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, or moose may be held for up to 48 hours while the Department locates and places the animal in a pre-approved facility or other disposition as directed by the Department.  (4) Raccoons (Procyon lotor). Permittees must be pre-approved by the Department to rehabilitate raccoons with the following conditions:  (a) Raccoons must be released back to the original location of capture or humanely euthanized, unless otherwise authorized in writing by the local Department district wildlife biologist.  (b) Raccoons will only be rehabilitated in Department pre-approved facilities designed for orphaned raccoon kit rehabilitation including requirements for animal handling and monitoring, and animal care.  (c) The maximum number of raccoons held by any single facility will be determined by the Department and listed on the permit.  (d) Raccoons from multiple locations must be held separately by their respective collection site and identified appropriately to facilitate the return of animals to their site of origin; exceptions require prior written approval by the local Department district wildlife biologist.  (5) Wolves (Canis lupus). Wildlife rehabilitators must notify the local Department district wildlife biologist immediately upon receiving a wolf into their facility.  (a) Wolf pups may be housed for up to 48 hours while the Department locates and places the animal in a pre-approved facility or other disposition as directed or determined by Department staff.  (6) Bobcat (Lynx rufus) and Lynx (Lynx canadensis). Wildlife rehabilitators must notify the local Department district wildlife biologist immediately upon receiving a bobcat or lynx into their facility.  (a) Bobcat or Lynx kittens may be housed for up to 48 hours while the Department locates and places the animal in a pre-approved facility or other disposition as directed or determined by Department staff.  (7) Other wild native mammals including Fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus, Vulpes microtis, Vulpes vulpes), Ringtail (Bassariscus astutus), American Marten (Martes americana), Fisher (Martes pennant), Wolverine (Gulo gulo), River Otter (Lutra canadensis) and all bats (order Chiroptera). Wildlife rehabilitators must notify the local Department district wildlife biologist within 24 hours of receiving these species into their facility.  (a) The wild native mammals listed in this sub-section, 635-062-0025 (7), may be housed for up to 48 hours while the Department locates and places the animal in a pre-approved facility or other disposition as directed or determined by Department staff.  [ED. NOTE: Exhibits referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 497.298, 497.308, 497.312, 497.318, 498.022, 498.029, 498.052, 498.222 & 498.242 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 497.298, 497.308, 497.312, 497.318, 498.022, 498.029, 498.052, 498.222 & 498.242 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 163-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-9-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
