



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-3660 
 Vehicle-Mounted Elevating and Rotating Work Platforms 
 
 NOTE: This section does not apply to aerial devices made and used in orchards or tree operations, such as pruning.  (1) Definitions.  (a) Aerial device. Any vehicle-mounted device, telescoping or articulating, or both, for positioning personnel.  (b) Platform. Any personnel-carrying device (basket or bucket) which is part of an aerial device.  (2) Design requirements.  (a) The equipment operation manual must be with the equipment or the workers using it. Workers must follow the manufacturer’s instructions and procedures. Work must not exceed equipment limitations and restrictions.  (b) “Field modification” of aerial lifts for uses other than those intended by the manufacturer are acceptable, if the manufacturer certifies in writing that the modification conforms with ANSI A92.2-1990 and this section and is at least as safe as the equipment was before modification. This certification may also be by any other equivalent entity, such as a nationally recognized testing laboratory.  (c) Platforms must have standard guardrails that conform with 4/D, OAR 437-004-0320(6).  (d) Gates in platform enclosures must have safety latches that prevent unintended opening.  (e) Articulating boom and extensible boom platforms, primarily designed to carry personnel, must have both platform (upper) and lower controls. Upper controls must be in or beside the platform within easy reach of the operator. Lower controls must allow overriding of the upper controls. Markings must clearly show each control’s function.  (3) Specific requirements. Extensible and articulating boom platforms.  (a) Test lift controls before use to determine that they are in safe working condition.  (b) Allow only trained persons to operate an aerial lift.  (c) Do not belt off to an adjacent pole, structure or equipment while working from an aerial lift.  (d) Stand firmly on the floor of the basket, do not sit or climb on the edge of the basket or use planks, ladders or other devices for a work position.  (e) Wear a body belt and a lanyard attached to the boom or basket when in an aerial lift. The lanyard must be as short as possible for the work but in no case longer than 6 feet.  (f) Do not exceed the manufacturer’s boom and basket load limits. Keep those limits legibly posted on the boom.  (g) Set the brakes and position the outriggers on pads or a solid surface. Chock the wheels before using an aerial lift on an incline.  (h) Do not move an aerial lift truck when the boom is elevated with people in the basket, except for equipment specially designed for such movement.  (i) Do not alter the insulated portion of an aerial lift in a way that might reduce its insulating value.  (j) Except as in (3)(h) above, before moving an aerial lift for travel, inspect the boom(s) to see that it is properly cradled and outriggers are stowed.  (4) Working near overhead high voltage lines.  (a) Required clearances for stationary work. Do not require or permit anybody to enter or work near high-voltage lines unless danger from accidental contact with the lines is guarded against or eliminated. Clearances and distances in 4/S, OAR 437-004-3050 apply.  (b) Clearance or safeguards for moving equipment. Do not move equipment in a way that might allow the people or objects to come within 10 feet of high-voltage lines.  (A) For equipment in transit, on smooth surfaces, the clearance must be at least 4 feet for voltages less than 50 kV., 10 feet for voltages more than 50 kV., up to and including 345 kV., and 16 feet for voltages up to and including 750 kV.  (B) When it is hard for the operator to see well enough to keep the desired clearance, somebody must watch the work and warn the operator.  (C) Movement of the structures supporting the high-voltage lines or any of their equipment, fixtures or attachments must not reduce the 10-foot clearance requirement.  (c) Warning signs required. Post a warning sign, readable from 12 feet, that says, “Unlawful to operate this equipment within 10 feet of high-voltage lines."  (d) Notification to power company and responsibility for safeguards. When working or placing material or equipment within 10 feet of any high-voltage line, the employer must promptly notify the operator of the high-voltage line. Employers are responsible for completing the safety measures required before allowing any work that could impair the clearance.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
