



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employment Relations Board 
 Chapter 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 PRIVATE EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION 
 115-060-0025 
 Withdrawal or Dismissal of Petition 
 
 (1) Withdrawal of Petition. A petitioner may withdraw its petition with the approval of the Board or its agent. If a petition is withdrawn after the Recommended Order is issued, the withdrawal will be granted with prejudice and the petitioner may not submit a new petition for the bargaining unit for a period of six months from the date the withdrawal was approved.  (2) Dismissal of Petition. If the Board Determines after an investigation that the petition has not been timely or properly filed, that no valid question concerning the representation of employees exists in an appropriate unit, or that the petition should not be processed for other reasons, it may request the party filing such a petition to withdraw the petition without prejudice or, in the absence of such withdrawal, it may dismiss the petition. Such action may be taken by the Board at any time prior to the closing of the case. A petitioner may, within 14 days of the date of service of the dismissal, request reconsideration of such action by the Board. This request shall contain a complete statement setting forth the facts and reasons upon which the request is based. On its own motion, the Board may or may not hear oral argument on a request for reconsideration. The Board may affirm the dismissal, or set the dismissal aside and remand the matter for hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 243 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 663.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ERB 1-1980, f. & ef. 1-9-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
