



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Landscape Contractors Board 
 Chapter 808 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 LICENSES 
 808-003-0260 
 Independent Contractor 
 
 (1) Purpose of Rule. The Landscape Contractors Board, Department of Revenue, Department of Consumer and Business Services, Employment Department, and Construction Contractors Board must adopt rules together to carry out ORS 670.600. ORS 670.600 defines “independent contractor” for purposes of the programs administered by these agencies. This rule is intended to ensure that all five agencies apply and interpret ORS 670.600 in a consistent manner; to clarify the meaning of terms used in ORS 670.600; and, to the extent possible, to enable interested persons to understand how all five agencies will apply ORS 670.600.  (2) Statutory Context.  (a) ORS 670.600 generally establishes three requirements for “independent contractors”. One requirement is that an “independent contractor” must be engaged in an “independently established business.” Another requirement is related to licenses and certificates that are required for an “independent contractor” to provide services. A third requirement is that an “independent contractor” must be “free from direction and control over the means and manner” of providing services to others.  (b) The specific focus of this rule is the “direction and control” requirement. See ORS 670.600 for the requirements of the “independently established business” test and for licensing and certification requirements.  (3) Direction and Control Test.  (a) ORS 670.600 states that an "independent contractor" must be "free from direction and control over the means and manner" of providing services to others. The agencies that have adopted this rule will use the following definitions in their interpretation and application of the “direction and control” test:  (A) “Means” are resources used or needed in performing services. To be free from direction and control over the means of providing services an independent contractor must determine which resources to use in order to perform the work, and how to use those resources. Depending upon the nature of the business, examples of the "means" used in performing services include such things as tools or equipment, labor, devices, plans, materials, licenses, property, work location, and assets, among other things.  (B) “Manner” is the method by which services are performed. To be free from direction and control over the manner of providing services an independent contractor must determine how to perform the work. Depending upon the nature of the business, examples of the "manner" by which services are performed include such things as work schedules, and work processes and procedures, among other things.  (C) “Free from direction and control” means that the independent contractor is free from the right of another person to control the means or manner by which the independent contractor provides services. If the person for whom services are provided has the right to control the means or manner of providing the services, it does not matter whether that person actually exercises the right of control.  (b) Right to specify results to be achieved. Specifying the final desired results of the contractor’s services does not constitute direction and control over the means or manner of providing those services.  (4) Application of “direction and control” test in construction and landscape industries.  (a) The provisions of this section apply to:  (A) Architects licensed under ORS 671.010 to 671.220;  (B) Landscape architects licensed under ORS 671.310 to 671.479;  (C) Landscaping businesses licensed under ORS 671.510 to 671.710;  (D) Engineers licensed under ORS 672.002 to 672.325; and  (E) Construction contractors licensed under ORS Chapter 701.  (b) A licensee described in (4)(a), that is paying for the services of a subcontractor in connection with a construction or landscape project, will not be considered to be exercising direction or control over the means or manner by which the subcontractor is performing work when the following circumstances apply:  (A) The licensee specifies the desired results of the subcontractor’s services by providing plans, drawings, or specifications that are necessary for the project to be completed.  (B) The licensee specifies the desired results of the subcontractor’s services by specifying the materials, appliances or plants by type, size, color, quality, manufacturer, grower, or price, which materials, appliances or plants are necessary for the project to be completed.  (C) When specified by the licensee’s customer or in a general contract, plans, or drawings and in order to specify the desired results of the subcontractor’s services, the licensee provides materials, appliances, or plants, including, but not limited to, roofing materials, framing materials, finishing materials, stoves, ovens, refrigerators, dishwashers, air conditioning units, heating units, sod and seed for lawns, shrubs, vines, trees, or nursery stock, which are to be installed by subcontractors in the performance of their work, and which are necessary for the project to be completed.  (D) The licensee provides, but does not require the use of, equipment (such as scaffolding or fork lifts) at the job site, which equipment is available for use on that job site only, by all or a significant number of subcontractors requiring such equipment.  (E) The licensee has the right to determine, or does determine, in what sequence subcontractors will work on a project, the total amount of time available for performing the work, or the start or end dates for subcontractors working on a project.  (F) The licensee reserves the right to change, or does change, in what sequence subcontractors will work on a project, the total amount of time available for performing the work, or the start or end dates for subcontractors working on a project.  (5) As used in ORS chapters 316, 656, 657,671 and 701, an individual or business entity that performs labor or services for remuneration is considered to perform the labor or services as an “independent contractor” if the standards of ORS 670.600 and this rule are met.  (6) The Landscape Contractors Board, Construction Contractors Board, Employment Department, Department of Consumer and Business Services, and Department of Revenue of the State of Oregon, under the authority of ORS 670.605, will cooperate as necessary in their compliance and enforcement activities to ensure among the agencies the consistent interpretation and application of ORS 670.600. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.600 & 671.670 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 670.600 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCB 1-2007, f. 1-30-07, cert. ef. 2-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCB 5-2005, f. 12-30-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
