



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0300 
 Duties of Authorized Receiving Track 
 
 (1) An authorized receiving track conducts and operates a pari-mutuel wagering system on the results of contests being held or conducted and simulcast from the enclosures of one or more sending track and with the approval of the commission.  (2) An authorized receiving track shall provide:  (a) Adequate transmitting and receiving equipment of acceptable broadcast quality, which shall not interfere with the closed circuit TV system of the sending track for providing any host facility patron information.  (b) Pari-mutuel terminals, pari-mutuel odds displays, modems and switching units enabling pari-mutuel data transmissions, and data communications between the simulcast sending track, and the receiving track including approved off track sites.  (c) A voice communication system between the receiving track and the sending track providing timely voice contact among the commission designees, placing judges and pari-mutuel departments.  (3) The authorized receiving track and all of its off track sites shall conduct pari-mutuel wagering pursuant to the applicable commission rules.  (4) The commission may appoint at least one designee to supervise all approved simulcast facilities and may require additional designees as is reasonably necessary for the protection of the public interest.  (5) The receiving track and its off track sites shall initiate a test program of its transmitter, encryption and decoding, and data communication not less than 30 minutes prior to the commencement of transmission of the performance of pari-mutuel contests for each day or night to assure proper operation of the system.  (6) The authorized receiving track shall, in conjunction with the sending track or race meet licensees for which it operates pari-mutuel wagering, provide the commission with a certified report of its pari-mutuel operations as directed by the commission.  (7) Every authorized receiving track shall file with the commission an annual report of its simulcast operations and an audited financial statement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.700 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.700 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
