



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 STATE APPROVAL PROCESS FOR EDUCATOR PREPARATION PROVIDERS 
 584-400-0080 
 Unit or Program Modifications 
 
 (1) Modifications: The Commission must approve modifications to an approved unit or state recognized licensure, endorsement or specialization program. All modifications must comply with Chapter 584, Division 400, 410 and 420 and applicable Oregon statutory provisions. 

 (2) Major modifications: A major modification is a change that substantively alters the program or Unit as currently recognized or approved by the Commission. 

 (3) To request approval of a major modification to the program or Unit, EPPs must complete the program major modification process, as provided in the Program Review and Standards Handbook. 

 (4) If the EPP is uncertain if a change to a program should be submitted to the Commission through the major modification process, the EPP may request clarification from the Executive Director or designee. The Executive Director or designee must provide an official response to the EPP that determines whether the change is a new program, a major modification or a minor modification. The official response must be provided to the EPP within one month of receiving the request for clarification. 

 (5) Major modifications include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) Substantive changes to the Unit, including: 

 (A) The core mission and goals; 

 (B) The legal status, form of control, or ownership; 

 (C) The administration, if the change is a result of the Unit head's termination by the institution; 

 (D) Offerings of academic programs for credit through contractual relationships with external organizations; and 

 (E) Structure or content that results in the EPP no longer meeting Oregon statutes or administrative rules. 

 (b) Substantive changes to Programs, including: 

 (A) The degree level of the program; 

 (B) The core curriculum of the program, as defined in the Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (C) The core clinical practices requirements, as defined in the Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (D) Additions of single-subject endorsement areas within a state-recognized Preliminary Teaching License program. 

 
 NOTE: Single-subjects endorsements are defined in 584-400-0020, Definitions. 
 

 
 NOTE: An elimination of a program is not considered a major modification; instead it is subject to the provisions of 584-400-0090, Elimination of Programs. 
 

 (6) Minor Modification: A minor modification is a change that affects, but does not substantively alter, the program or Unit, as currently recognized or approved by the Commission. 

 (7) To request approval of a minor modification to a program or Unit, the EPP must include minor modifications in the annual report for the academic year in which the change became effective (September 1 – August 31). 

 (a) Upon acceptance and approval of the annual report by the Commission, the minor modification will be considered included in the state-recognized program or approved Unit. 

 (b) The effective date of the approved minor modifications is the effective date noted with the minor modification in the annual report. 

 (c) In absence of a specific effective date in the annual report, the effective date of the approved minor modification will be the date of submission of the annual report to the Commission. 

 (8) Minor modifications include, but are not limited to: 

 (a) Additions or elimination of courses, if the change does not substantively alter the core curriculum of the program; 

 (b) Changes to clinical practices, if the change does not substantively alter the core clinical practices structure; and 

 (c) Changes to delivery of programs, if the change in delivery does not alter the core curriculum of the program. 

 
 NOTE: Course substitutions are not considered major or minor modifications and are not required to be reported to the Commission . 
 

 (9) Failure to report required modifications: Upon evidence that an EPP has failed to report a modification to their state-recognized educator preparation program or state-approved Unit to the Commission, the Commission may require the EPP to r eport on the unit or programs in order to determine if a modification has occurred. 

 (10) If the Commission determines a program or Unit experienced a modification that was not properly reported, the Commission may require the EPP to undergo a review of the Unit or program to determine if any further action is required. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 - 342.430, 342.455 - 342.495 & 342.533 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2018, adopt filed 04/17/2018, effective 04/17/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
