



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 81 NONTRANSPLANT ANATOMICAL RESEARCH RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS 
 333-081-0085 
 Informal Enforcement 
 
 (1) If during an investigation or survey Division staff document violations of NARRO licensing rules or laws, the Division may issue a statement of deficiencies that cites the law or rule alleged to have been violated and the facts supporting the allegation.  (2) Upon receipt of a statement of deficiencies, a NARRO shall be provided an opportunity to dispute the Division’s survey findings but must still comply with sections (3) and (4) of this rule. The following conditions apply:  (a) If a NARRO desires an informal conference to dispute the Division’s survey findings, the NARRO must submit a request in writing to the Division within 10 business days after receipt of the statement of deficiencies. The written request must include a detailed explanation of why the NARRO believes the statement of deficiencies is incorrect;  (b) A NARRO may not seek a delay of any enforcement action against it on the grounds the informal dispute resolution has not been completed; and  (c) If a NARRO is successful in demonstrating some or all of the deficiencies should not have been cited, the Division must withdraw or reissue the statement of deficiencies, removing such deficiencies and rescinding or modifying any remedies issued for such deficiencies. A reissued statement of deficiencies must include a statement that it supersedes the previous statement of deficiencies and shall clearly identify the date of the superseded statement of deficiencies.  (3) A signed plan of correction from a NARRO must be mailed to the Division within 10 business days from the date the statement of deficiencies was received by the NARRO. A signed plan of correction will not be used by the Division as an admission of the violations alleged in the statement of deficiencies.  (4) A NARRO must correct all deficiencies within 60 days from the date of the receipt of the statement of deficiencies, unless an extension of time is granted by the Division. A request for such an extension must be submitted in writing and must accompany the plan of correction.  (5) The Division must determine if a written plan of correction is acceptable. If the plan of correction is not acceptable to the Division, the Division must notify the NARRO owner or administrator in writing:  (a) Identifying which provisions in the plan the Division finds unacceptable;  (b) Citing the reasons the Division finds the provisions unacceptable; and  (c) Requesting that the plan of correction be modified, resubmitted and received by the Division no later than 10 business days from the date notification of non-compliance was received by the NARRO owner or administrator.  (6) If the NARRO does not come into compliance by either the date of correction reflected in the plan of correction or a Division approved extension as provided for in section (4) of this rule, or 60 days from the date of receipt of the statement of deficiencies, whichever is sooner, the Division may propose to deny, suspend or revoke the agency license or impose civil penalties. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 438.710 & 438.720 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 438.705-438.720 & 438.994 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 6-2014, f. 1-30-14, cert. ef. 2-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
