



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Corporation Division - Chapter 160 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE — ARTICLE 9 
 160-040-0101 
 UCC Document Delivery 
 
 For the purposes of this section, "delivery" means receipt by the filing office. UCC records may be tendered for filing at the filing office as follows.  (1) Personal delivery by Remitter, at the filing office's street address. The file time for a UCC record delivered by this method is when delivery of the UCC record is taken by the filing office (even though the UCC record may not yet have been accepted for filing and subsequently may be rejected). This rule applies only to a Remitter who tenders a UCC record to the filing office and waits an immediate determination of whether or not the UCC record will be taken or not.  (2) Courier delivery, at the filing office's street address. The file time for a UCC record delivered by this method is the time the UCC record is first examined by a filing officer for processing within the next close of business following the time of delivery, (even though the UCC record may not yet have been accepted for filing and may be subsequently rejected). This rule does not apply to a courier who is acting as an agent of the Remitter and who tenders a UCC record to the filing office and awaits an immediate determination of whether or not the UC record will be taken or not under rule 101.1.  (3) Postal service delivery, to the filing office's mailing address. The file time for a UCC record delivered by this method is when delivery of the UCC record is taken by the filing office (even though the UCC record may not yet have been accepted for filing and may be subsequently rejected).  (4) Fax delivery, to the filing office's fax filing telephone number. The file time for a UCC record delivered by this method is when delivery of the UCC record is taken by the filing office (even though the UCC record may not yet have been accepted for filing and may be subsequently rejected).  (5) Direct web page data entry. UCC records may be delivered by on-line data entry using the filing office’s website on the internet. Website data entry and payment procedures are available as provided at www.filinginoregon.com. The file time for a UCC record delivered by the method is the time the entry of all required elements of the UCC record in the proper format is acknowledged by the on-line entry system.  (6) Means of communication. Regardless of the method of delivery, information for recording in the UCC information management system should be communicated to the filing only in the form of the English alphabet A–Z, numbers 0–9, and symbols and characters found on a standard QWERTY keyboard. A financing statement or amendment form that does not designate separate fields for organization and individual names, and separate fields for the surname, first personal name, additional name(s)/initial(s) and suffixes for individual names is not an acceptable means of communication to the filing office.  (7) Transmitting utility and public-finance transactions. The only means to indicate to the filing office than an initial financing statement is being filed in connection with a public finance transaction, or that a financing statement is being or has been filed against a debtor that is a transmitting utility, in order to affect the filing office’s determination of the lapse date under rule 306.3 or rule 307, is to so indicate by checking the appropriate box on a UCC1 Financing Statement filed with respect to the financing statement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 79.0526 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 79.0526 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 1-2013, f. 7-31-13, cert. ef. 8-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 4-2008, f. 7-15-08, cert. ef. 8-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 2-2001, f. 7-9-01, cert. ef. 8-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
