



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 68 REGISTRATION OF ROOM AND BOARD FACILITIES 
 411-068-0010 
 Application and Fees
 
 
 (1) An application for a registration shall be submitted by the operator in writing on a form APD 0926. The application shall include but not be limited to: 

 (a) A description of the property or place in or upon which the applicant proposes to maintain or conduct an RB facility. 

 (b) A complete and accurate floor plan that indicates: 

 (A) The size of rooms. 

 (B) Which bedrooms are to be used by tenants, the operator, and the tenant manager. 

 (C) The location of all exits and emergency exits such as windows. 

 (D) The location of fire extinguishers, smoke alarms, and carbon monoxide alarms, planned evacuation routes and designated smoking areas in or on the RB facility premises. 

 (c) The maximum number of tenants who can reside at the facility. 

 (d) The names of all tenants residing at the facility at the time of application. 

 (e) The number of floors to be occupied. 

 (f) The number of beds on each floor. 

 (g) The name, address, telephone number and birth date of the applicant. 

 (h) The names, addresses, telephone numbers and birth dates of any partner, corporate officer or other persons having a financial interest in the property, including but not limited to a landlord or mortgage holder of the property. 

 (i) The name, address, telephone number and birth date of the tenant manager, if applicable. 

 (j) A written plan describing the administrative responsibilities, staff coverage and services which will be offered to tenants. 

 (k) A copy of the residency agreement as described in 411-068-0040. 

 (l) Documentation of the initiation of a background check or a copy of an approved background check for all SI’s as defined in OAR 411-068-0000. 

 (m) A signed and dated statement from the operator stating that the operator and the facility are in compliance with all the requirements of these rules. 

 (n) A copy of an official document from a financial institution or local government or a fully executed contract evidencing the operator’s right to occupy the property designated as the proposed RB facility, such as a recorded deed, sale agreement, lease agreement between current property owner and applicant. The right to occupy the premises must be concurrent with at least the term of the registration. 

 (2) The registration fee shall be $20 per year, per facility, and shall accompany the application. 

 (3) Applications are not complete until all required information, the application, and registration fee are received by the Department. Incomplete initial applications are void after 60 calendar days from the date the Department receives the application form and registration fee. Failure to provide complete and accurate information may result in a denial of the application. 

 (4) An applicant may withdraw their application at any time during the application process by submitting written notice to the Department. 

 (5) An applicant whose registration has been suspended, revoked or non-renewed, or has been voluntarily surrendered during a suspension, revocation or non-renewal process, or whose application for a registration has been denied, shall not be permitted to make a new application for one year from the date the action was final, or for a longer period if specified in the final order. 

 (6) After receipt of the completed initial application materials, including the registration fee, the Department or its authorized representative must investigate the information submitted, including pertinent information received from outside sources, conduct a personal interview with the applicant, and conduct a physical inspection of the home identifying any deficiencies in writing, and specify a time frame for correction not to exceed 60 calendar days. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 443.485 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.480 & 443.500 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 24-2022, amend filed 06/13/2022, effective 07/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 15-1990, f. 7-30-90, cert. ef. 8-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
