



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 PLASTICS RECYCLING TAX CREDITS 
 340-017-0030 
 Determination of Percentage of Certified Investment Costs Allocable to Collection, Transportation or Processing of Reclaimed Plastic or Manufacturing a Reclaimed Plastic Product 
 
 (1) Definitions:  (a) “Claimed Investment Costs” means the actual cost of the claimed equipment, machinery, or personal property. Certification of the actual cost of the claimed equipment, machinery, or personal property must be documented by a certified public accountant for claimed investment costs which are over $20,000;  (b) “Net Investment Cost” means the claimed investment costs minus the salvage value of any equipment, machinery or personal property removed from service;  (c) “Salvage Value” means the value of a piece of equipment, machinery or personal property at the end of its useful life minus what it costs to remove it from service. Salvage value can never be less than zero.  (2) In establishing the percent of costs properly allocable to the investment costs incurred to allow a person to collect, transport or process reclaimed plastic or to manufacture a reclaimed plastic product, the Commission shall consider the following factors and make appropriate findings regarding their applicability:  (a) The estimated percent of time the equipment, machinery or personal property is utilized to collect, transport or process reclaimed plastic or manufacture a reclaimed plastic product, based on projections for the first year of operation;  (b) The alternative methods, equipment and costs for achieving the same objective;  (c) Other factors which are relevant in establishing a portion of the actual cost of the investment properly allocable to the collection, transportation or processing of reclaimed plastic or to the manufacture of a reclaimed plastic product.  (3) The portion of actual costs properly allocable shall be from 0 to 100 percent in increments of one percent. If zero percent, the commission shall issue an order denying certification.  (4) The portion of actual costs properly allocable shall not include costs for:  (a) Air conditioners;  (b) Septic tanks or other facilities for human waste;  (c) Property installed, constructed or used for moving sewage to the collecting facilities of a public or quasi-public sewerage system;  (d) Equipment, personal property or machinery not directly related to the operation of the industry or enterprise seeking the tax credit; or  (e) Any distinct portion of the investment which makes an insignificant contribution to the collection, transportation or processing of reclaimed plastic or the manufacture of a reclaimed plastic product including the following specific items:  (A) Office furnishings;  (B) Parking lots and road improvements;  (C) Landscaping;  (D) External lighting;  (E) Company or related signs; and  (F) Automobiles. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & 468.456 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.486 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 6-1998, f. 4-24-98, cert. ef. 5-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 7-1990, f. & cert. ef. 3-13-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 29-1989(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 12-14-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 4-1986, f. & ef. 2-12-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
