



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS 
 918-500-0580 
 Alterations 
 
 (1) Alterations to manufactured dwellings include, but are not limited to any change, addition, alteration, repair, conversion, replacement, modification, refurbishing, re-manufacturing, or removal of any part of the manufactured dwelling or manufactured dwelling equipment.  (2) The following alterations are exempt from permits but are not exempt from the requirements of these rules or the Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code:  (a) Minor repairs with approved component parts;  (b) Conversion of listed fuel burning appliances in accordance with the terms of their listing;  (c) Adjustment and maintenance of equipment; and  (d) Replacement of equipment or accessories in kind.  (3) Alteration work on manufactured dwellings must conform to or may exceed the federal or state code in effect at the time of original manufacture.  (4) Alterations before or at the time of sale to the first consumer performed or arranged by the manufacturer, dealer, or distributor must:  (a) Conform to the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), the manufacturer’s DAPIA approved plans, these rules; and  (b) Be inspected by the division, with the exception of certain site installed mechanical equipment identified in these rules.  (5) The following site installed mechanical equipment must be inspected by the municipality according to the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code. Site installed mechanical equipment includes, but is not limited to:  (a) Solid fuel burning appliances, wood stoves and fireplaces listed or approved for manufactured dwellings or mobile home use, and listed pellet-fired appliances;  (b) Listed heat pumps; and  (c) Listed air conditioners.  (6) Solid fuel-burning devices, wood or pellet burning, as defined in ORS 468A.485, must be installed according to the device manufacturer’s installation instructions and to the applicable requirements in these rules. Solid fuel burning devices must be certified as required by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality pursuant to ORS 468A.460 to 468A.480.  NOTE: Listed or approved fuel burning appliances must be installed to provide for the complete separation of the combustion system from the interior atmosphere of the manufactured dwelling.  (7) Alterations to manufactured dwellings after the initial sale to the first consumer must conform to the following:  (a) The code that was in effect at the time of original manufacture;  (b) The equivalent provisions of the Oregon Residential Specialty Code;  (c) The 1972 edition of ANSI A119.1 Standard for Mobile Homes and the 1971 edition of the National Electrical Code NFPA 70 for manufactured dwellings constructed prior to June 1976; or  (d) In cases where the original manufacture date cannot be determined or where it is impractical for the manufactured dwelling to conform to the strict letter of the code, a municipality may accept methods or materials that are substantially equivalent to the code. Engineering may be required to substantiate equivalency if structural components of the manufactured dwelling have been altered or replaced.  (8) Unless specified otherwise, alterations may not take a manufactured dwelling out of compliance with the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code, and these rules.  (9) The following applies to any alteration of a manufactured dwelling:  (a) The installation or alteration of fuel burning appliances must conform with the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code, and these rules.  (b) Energy conservation standards are not required to be increased to the levels of the state energy code.  (c) Roof live load capabilities are not required to be increased unless specifically required in these rules.  (10) Re-roofing must conform to the following:  (a) Existing roofing material and underlayment must be removed prior to installing new roofing material; and  (b) Damaged or defective rafters, trusses, or sheathing must be repaired or replaced before installing new roofing material.  (11) Two or more manufactured dwellings may be joined together to enlarge the total gross floor area of a manufactured dwelling provided:  (a) The joined manufactured dwellings are used only as a single-family dwelling;  (b) Each manufactured dwelling is installed according to the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Installation Specialty Code;  (c) The manufactured dwellings are joined only by flashing and weather resistant roofing materials; and  (d) Fire separation between the joined manufactured dwellings is not required.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 446.160 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 446.003, 446.155, 446.180, 446.225, 446.245 & 468A.460 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 1-2010, f. 3-1-10, cert. ef. 4-1-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
