



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT 
 137-090-0210 
 Forms 
 
 The CIU will only use forms developed, tested, and approved for use by the Criminal Justice Division. Only the forms described below are authorized for use in the CIU file system.  (1) Criminal Intelligence Report (IR) (CJD Form 35).  (a) The Criminal Intelligence Report form is the CIU’s standard collection document pertaining to criminal intelligence. It is designed to provide both collection and a more efficient way to analyze and disseminate what the CIU handles in the way of information;  (b) The IR is used by investigators and CJD staff alike as they collect criminal information in person, by mail, phone, and through access to public and controlled information;  (c) The IR is designed to collect information on one event only. It should never be used to report on several events at the same time such as a stakeout observation combined with information about a later meeting in which the stakeout findings were discussed;  (d) IR Preparation Guide: As a guide for the use of the IR, the following applies:  (A) Record one event per IR  (B) Write in the first person  (C) State and evaluate your sources  (D) Forward the IR promptly.  (2) Request for File Retention (CJD Form __). [Form not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (a) It is the policy of the CJD that all items of information contained in the CIU files will one day be purged and destroyed. Purging is an ongoing effort, thus creating daily voids of items of information in the file. The electronic “Purged and Destroyed” message is designed to earmark purged criminal intelligence information so that all voids are accounted for.  (b) When the CIUS wishes to retain information that has been scheduled for purge, the CIUS must substantiate the reasons for retention. Once an item of information has been identified as possibly meeting retention criteria, a hard copy of the information is attached to the “Request for File Retention” form. The item is then routed to the Chief Investigator for initial review and decision. The Chief Investigator reviews the item of information and makes the initial decision regarding its retention or destruction. The item is then routed to the Attorney-in-Charge of the Organized Crime Section for final review and approval. Criminal intelligence information may be retained in the CIU file for the following reasons:  (A) Additional indices relating to the subject and criminal activities have been submitted and are contained in the CIU file system.  (B) The audit information indicates that the information has been significantly accessed by law enforcement in conjunction with criminal investigation(s).  (C) The subject is a major offender and there is reason to believe the subject still represents a criminal threat.  (D) The subject is an active member of a documented criminal organization and that organization represents a criminal threat.  (c) Criminal intelligence information meeting purge criteria will be removed from the system and destroyed.  [ED. NOTE: Forms referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.610(2), (3) & (4), 181.575, 387.805 et seq. & 28 CFR §23.20 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2000, f. & cert. ef. 8-9-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 2-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
