



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 OUT-OF-BASIN DIVERSION 
 690-012-0050 
 Fees 
 
 (1) The applicant shall bear all costs to the State of Oregon for processing an application for an out-of-basin diversion. An application for an out-of-basin diversion shall be accompanied by the following fees:  (a) An examination fee of $1,500;  (b) A publication of analysis fee of $1,000; and  (c) A hearing fee of $1,200.  (2) The Department shall maintain an accounting of all costs incurred in review of the application. The Department shall bill the applicant quarterly for all costs incurred in excess of the examination, publication and hearing fee amounts listed in section (1) of this rule. The first billing shall be made at the end of the calendar quarter in which the application is received. Additional billings shall be made at the close of each quarter thereafter until the application is approved or rejected. If the applicant fails to pay the Department within 30 days of billing, the Department shall suspend review until payment is made. If the applicant refuses to pay any billing, the Department shall halt further review and take steps to reject the application. Expenses for the following items shall be completely reimbursed by the applicant:  (a) Staff time spent in review, analysis, consultation, public hearings, report preparation, and presentation to the Commission;  (b) Staff and Commissioner’s travel expenses, including mileage, meals and lodging, incurred in travel to and from and conduct of public hearing(s) on the proposed application;  (c) Public notice and publication expenses, including reproduction and printing costs, newspaper and other publishing fees, and postage;  (d) Hearing expenses, including rental of a hearing facility, audio and visual equipment, and professional transcription fees; and  (e) Such other expenses as may be incurred in the processing of the application, including the reasonable expenses of any state agency incurred for any of the items listed in subsections (a) through (d) of this section in providing services requested by the Department or Commission. Any request for services made by the Department or Commission shall be in writing and shall specify the particular service(s) being requested.  (3) Time spent by state agencies in consultation with the applicant as required in OAR 690-012-0040(7)(a)(A) through (E), shall not be at the applicant’s expense. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 537 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 537 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1991, f. & cert. ef. 2-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
