



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 ADVERTISEMENTS OF HEALTH INSURANCE 
 836-020-0235 
 Testimonials or Endorsements by Third Parties 
 
 (1) Testimonials used in advertisements must be genuine, represent the current opinion of the author, be applicable to the policy advertised and be accurately reproduced. The insurer in using a testimonial makes as its own all of the statements contained therein, and the entire advertisement including such testimonial is subject to all the provisions of this rule.  (2) If the person making a testimonial, an endorsement, or an appraisal has a financial interest in the insurer or a related entity, as a stockholder, director, officer, employee or otherwise, this fact shall be disclosed in the advertisement. If a person is compensated for making a testimonial, endorsement or appraisal, this fact shall be disclosed in the advertisement by the phrase “paid endorsement” or its equivalent. This subsection does not require disclosure of payment of “union scale” for TV or radio performances. The payment of substantial amounts, directly or indirectly, for travel or entertainment or similar expenditures for filming or recording of TV or radio advertisements requires disclosure.  (3) An advertisement shall not state or imply that the insurer or the policy has been approved or endorsed by any individual, group of individuals, society, association or other person, unless such is the fact and unless any proprietary relationship between such person and the insurer is disclosed. If the person making the endorsement or testimonial has been formed by the insurer, or is owned or controlled by the insurer or the persons who own or control the insurer, this fact shall be disclosed in the advertisement.  (4) When a testimonial refers to benefits received under a policy, the specific claim data, including claim number, date of loss and other pertinent information, shall be retained by the insurer for inspection for a period of four years or until the filing of the next regular report of examination of the insurer, whichever is the longer period of time. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731, 743 & 746 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 742.009 & 746.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IC 53, f. 3-5-73, ef. 3-15-73 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
