



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Public Employees Retirement System 
 Chapter 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 JUDGE MEMBER PROGRAM 
 459-040-0060 
 Judge Member Death Before Retirement 
 
 If a judge member dies before retiring, benefits shall be distributed and calculated as follows:  (1) For a surviving spouse:  (a) If the judge member has six or more years of service as a judge and the judge member is not an inactive judge member performing pro tem service under the provisions of ORS 238.545(4), the surviving spouse shall receive a life pension equal to two-thirds of the retirement allowance the judge member would have received under Plan A, had the judge member retired on the date of death.  (b) If the judge member has six or more years of service as a judge and the judge member is an inactive judge member performing pro tem service under the provisions of ORS 238.545(4) at the time of death, the surviving spouse shall receive a life pension equal to two-thirds of the service retirement allowance the judge member would have received under Plan B, had the judge member retired on the date of death.  (c) If the judge member has less than six years of service as a judge, the surviving spouse shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to the judge member account in the Fund on the first of the month following the date of death.  (d) If a surviving spouse receiving a life pension under this section dies and the total amount of pension payments received by the surviving spouse is less than the amount that had been credited to the deceased judge member’s account as of the date of death of the judge member, the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of the judge member shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the remainder.  (2) For purposes of computing a surviving spouse’s life pension in section (1) of this rule, a judge member who dies before age 60 is deemed to have died at age 60.  (3) If the judge member has six or more years of service as a judge and the judge member has no surviving spouse, the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to the judge member account in the Fund on the first of the month following the date of death.  (4) If the judge member has no surviving spouse and designated a beneficiary or beneficiaries at death, a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to the judge member’s account on the date of death shall be paid to the judge member’s beneficiary or beneficiaries.  (5) If the judge member has no surviving spouse and no designated beneficiary or beneficiaries at death, a lump sum payment equal to the amount credited to the judge member’s account on the date of death shall be paid to the judge member’s estate.  (6) If the judge member, under the provisions of ORS 238.565(8), elects to have a portion of the pension payable to a surviving spouse paid to a former spouse, the designated portion shall be paid to the former spouse as a life pension. The portion of the pension not paid to the former spouse shall be paid to the surviving spouse, if any.  (a) The life of the first former spouse designated to receive a pension under ORS 238.565(8) will be the measuring life of the pensions payable to the surviving spouse and to any other former spouse.  (b) Upon the death of the first designated former spouse, the pensions payable to the surviving spouse and to any other former spouse shall cease.  (c) If, at the death of the first designated former spouse, the total amount of the payments received by the surviving spouse and former spouse(s) is less than the amount that had been credited to the deceased judge member’s account as of the date of the judge member’s death, the judge member’s designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall receive a lump sum payment equal to the remainder. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 238.650 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 238.565 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 12-2013, f. & cert. ef. 11-22-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PERS 11-2007, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
