



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 370 PROVIDER ENROLLMENT, SERVICE BILLING, AND SERVICE PAYMENT FOR DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES SERVICES 
 411-370-0030 
 Provider Enrollment
 
 
 (1) For the purpose of this rule, all providers of community services programs, authorized to utilize the eXPRS, SFMA, or MMIS, and licensed or certified by Department rules, or otherwise qualified by program-specific rules, prior to July 1, 2011 shall be deemed to be an enrolled provider as of July 1, 2011, subject to all provisions of these rules. 

 (2) Being an enrolled provider is a condition of eligibility for a Department payment for claims in community services programs. The Department requires billing providers to be enrolled as providers consistent with the provider enrollment processes set forth in this rule. If payment for community services program services shall be made under a contract with the Department or the Department's designees, including CDDPs, the provider must also meet the contract requirements. Contract requirements are separate from the requirements of these provider enrollment rules. 

 (3) Enrollment as a provider with the Department is not a promise that the enrolled provider shall receive any minimum amount of work from the Department, or the Department's designees, including CDDPs. 

 (4) RELATION TO SERVICE ELEMENT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES, PROGRAM-SPECIFIC RULES, PROVIDER ENROLLMENT AGREEMENT, OR CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS. Provider enrollment establishes essential provider participation requirements for becoming an enrolled provider for the Department. The details of provider qualification requirements, recipient eligibility, covered services, how to obtain service authorization, documentation requirements, claims submission, available electronic access instructions, and other pertinent instructions and requirements are contained in the service element standards and procedures, program-specific rules, or provider enrollment agreement or contract. 

 (5) CRITERIA FOR ENROLLMENT. To be enrolled providers must: 

 (a) Meet the requirements, if applicable, of the statewide agency certification process as prescribed in OAR chapter 411, division 323. 

 (b) Meet all program-specific requirements identified in service element standards and procedures, program-specific rules, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts in addition to the requirements identified in these rules; 

 (c) Meet Department licensing, certification, or service endorsement requirements for the type of community services programs the provider shall deliver as described in the program-specific rules, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts; and 

 (d) Obtain a Medicaid Agency Identification Number and applicable Medicaid Performing Provider Number from the Department for the specific services for which the provider is enrolling. 

 (6) PARTICIPATION AS AN ENROLLED PROVIDER. Participation with the Department as an enrolled provider is open to qualified providers that: 

 (a) Meet the qualification requirements established in these rules and program-specific rules, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts; 

 (b) Enroll as a provider with the Department in accordance with these rules; 

 (c) Provide or shall provide a covered service within their scope of licensure, certification, or service endorsement, if applicable, to an eligible recipient in accordance with service element standards and procedures, program-specific rules, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts; and 

 (d) Accept the payment amounts established in accordance with the Department's program-specific payment structures, service element standards and procedures, program-specific rules, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts for services providers. 

 (7) ENROLLMENT PROCESS. To be enrolled as a provider with the Department, an individual or organization must submit a complete and accurate provider enrollment form, provider disclosure form, and provider enrollment agreement, available from the Department. 

 (a) PROVIDER ENROLLMENT REQUEST FORM. The provider enrollment form requests basic demographic information about the provider that shall be permanently associated with the provider or organization until changed on an updated form. For the purpose of provider enrollment, the Department may use, instead of the provider enrollment form required under these rules, the application for certification required under OAR chapter 411, division 323 if such an application is applicable to the provider. 

 (b) PROVIDER DISCLOSURE FORM. All individuals and entities are required to disclose information used by the Department to determine whether an exclusion applies that would prevent the Department from enrolling the provider. Individual performing providers must submit a disclosure statement. All providers that are enrolling as an entity (corporation, non-profit, partnership, sole proprietorship, governmental) must submit a disclosure of ownership and control interest statement. For the purpose of provider enrollment, the Department may use, instead of the provider disclosure form required under these rules, the application for certification required under OAR chapter 411, division 323 if such an application is applicable to the provider. 

 (A) Entities must disclose all the information required on the disclosure of ownership and control interest statement. 

 (B) Payment may not be made to any individual or entity that has been excluded from participation in federal or state programs or that employs or is managed by excluded individuals or entities. 

 (C) The Department may refuse to enter into or may suspend or terminate a provider enrollment agreement if the individual performing provider or any individual who has an ownership or control interest in the entity, or who is an agent or managing employee of the provider, has been sanctioned or convicted of a criminal offense related to that individual's involvement in any program established under Medicare, Medicaid, Title XIX services, or other public assistance program. 

 (D) The Department may refuse to enter into or may suspend or terminate a provider enrollment agreement or contract for provider services, if the Department determines that the provider did not fully and accurately make any disclosure required under this rule. 

 (8) PROVIDER ENROLLMENT AGREEMENT. The provider must sign the provider enrollment agreement and submit it to the Department for review at the time the provider submits the provider enrollment form and related documentation. Signing the provider enrollment agreement constitutes agreement by a provider to comply with all applicable Department service element standards and procedures, provider and program rules, and applicable federal and state laws and regulations in effect on the date of service. The provider enrollment agreement must be submitted even if alternatives to submitting the provider enrollment form and provider disclosure form are used, as provided in sections (7)(a) and (7)(b) of this rule. 

 (9) ENROLLMENT OF PROVIDERS. A provider shall be enrolled, assigned, and issued a Medicaid Agency Identification Number and Medicaid Performing Provider Number upon the following criteria: 

 (a) Provider submission, consistent with Department procedures, of a completed and signed provider enrollment form, provider disclosure form, provider enrollment agreement, any applicable provider licensure, certification, or service endorsement materials, and all other required documents to the Department. 

 (b) Provider signature on required forms must be the provider or an individual with actual authority for the provider to legally bind the provider to attest and certify to the accuracy and completeness of the information submitted. 

 (c) The provisions of this rule, OAR chapter 411, division 323 if applicable, program-specific rules, service element standards and procedures, provider enrollment agreements, or contracts relating to provider qualifications, certification, licensure, and service endorsement are completed. 

 (10) Provider enrollment is not complete until all required information has been submitted, verified, and the Medicaid Agency Identification Number and the Medicaid Performing Provider Number are issued. 

 (11) CLAIM OR ENCOUNTER SUBMISSION. Submission of a claim or encounter or other payment request document constitutes the enrolled provider's agreement that: 

 (a) The service was provided in compliance with all applicable rules and requirements in effect on the date of service; 

 (b) The provider has created and maintained all records necessary to disclose the extent of services provided and provider's compliance with applicable program and financial requirements, and that the provider agrees to make such information available upon request to the Department or the Department's designees including CDDPs, brokerages, the MFCU (for Medicaid-funded services), the Oregon Secretary of State, and (for federally-funded services) the federal funding authority and the Comptroller General of the United States; 

 (c) The information on the claim or encounter, regardless of the format or other payment document, is true, accurate, and complete; and 

 (d) The provider understands that payment of the claim or encounter or other payment document shall be from federal or state funds, or a combination of federal and state funds, and that any falsification, or concealment of a material fact, may result in prosecution under federal and state laws. 

 (12) Medicaid Agency Identification Numbers and Medicaid Performing Provider Numbers shall be specific to the provider, and the service sites, locations, or type of service authorized by the Department or the Department's designee including CDDPs and support services brokerages. Issuance of a Department-assigned Medicaid Agency Identification Number and Medicaid Performing Provider Number establishes enrollment of an individual or organization as a provider for community services programs. 

 (13) Providers must provide the following updates: 

 (a) An enrolled provider must notify the Department in writing of a material change in any status or condition on any element of their provider enrollment form. Providers must notify the Department of the following changes in writing within 30 calendar days: 

 (A) Business affiliation; 

 (B) Ownership; 

 (C) Federal tax identification number; 

 (D) Ownership and control information; or 

 (E) Criminal convictions. 

 (b) Claims submitted by, or payments made to, providers who have not timely furnished the notification of changes or have not submitted any of the items that are required due to a change may be denied payment or payment may be subject to recovery. 

 (14) The provider enrollment agreement may be terminated as follows: 

 (a) PROVIDER TERMINATION REQUEST. 

 (A) The provider may ask the Department to terminate the provider enrollment agreement upon the following conditions and timelines unless otherwise required by service element standards and procedures, program-specific rules, or provider enrollment agreement or contract. 

 (i) Upon the provider’s convenience with at least 90 days advance written notice; or 

 (ii) Upon a minimum of 30 days advance written notice if the Department does not meet the obligations under these rules and such dispute remains unresolved at the end of the 30 day period or such longer period, if any, as specified by the provider in the notice. 

 (B) The request must be in writing, signed by the provider, and mailed or delivered to the Department. The notice must specify the Department-assigned Medicaid Agency Identification Number and Medicaid Performing Provider Number, if known. 

 (C) When accepted, the Department shall assign the Medicaid Agency Identification Number and Medicaid Performing Provider Number a termination status and the effective date of the termination status. 

 (D) Termination of the provider enrollment agreement does not relieve the provider of any obligations for covered services provided under these rules in effect for dates of services during which the provider enrollment agreement was in effect. 

 (b) DEPARTMENT TERMINATION. Pursuant to the provisions of OAR chapter 407, division 120, the Department may terminate the provider enrollment agreement immediately upon notice to the provider, or a later date as the Department may establish in the notice, upon the occurrence of any of the following events: 

 (A) The Department fails to receive funding, appropriations, limitations, or other expenditure authority at levels that the Department or the specific program determines to be sufficient to pay for the services covered under the agreement; 

 (B) Federal or state laws, regulations, or guidelines are modified or interpreted by the Department in a such a way that either providing the services under the agreement is prohibited or the Department is prohibited from paying for such services from the planned funding source; 

 (C) The Department has issued a final order revoking the Department-assigned Medicaid Agency Identification Number, service endorsement, or Medicaid Performing Provider Number based on a sanction; or 

 (D) The provider no longer holds a required license, certificate, service endorsement, or other authority to qualify as a provider. The termination shall be effective on the date the license, certificate, service endorsement, or other authority is no longer valid. 

 (c) In the event of any termination of the provider enrollment agreement, the provider's sole monetary remedy is limited to covered services the Department determines to be compensable under the provider agreement, a claim for unpaid invoices, hours worked within any limits set forth in the agreement but not yet billed, and Department-authorized expenses incurred prior to termination. Providers are not entitled to recover indirect or consequential damages. Providers are not entitled to attorney fees, costs, or other expenses of any kind. 

 (15) IMMEDIATE SUSPENSION. When a provider fails to meet one or more of the requirements governing participation as a Department enrolled provider, the provider's Department-assigned Medicaid Agency Identification Number or Medicaid Performing Provider Number may be immediately suspended consistent with the provisions of OAR chapter 407, division 120. The provider may not provide services to recipients during a period of suspension. The Department shall deny claims for payment or other payment requests for dates of service during a period of suspension. 

 (16) The provision of a program-specific provider enrollment agreement or contract covered services to eligible recipients is voluntary on the part of the provider. Providers are not required to serve all recipients seeking service. 

 (17) The provider performs all services as an independent contractor. The provider is not an officer, employee, or agent of the Department. 

 (18) The provider is responsible for its employees and for providing employment-related benefits and deductions that are required by law. The provider is solely responsible for its acts or omissions including the acts or omissions of its own officers, employees, or agents. The Department's responsibility shall be limited to the Department's authorization and payment obligations for covered services provided in accordance with these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 411.060 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 427.005, 427.007, 430.215, 430.610 to 430.695 & 443.400 to 443.455 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 35-2019, minor correction filed 10/18/2019, effective 10/18/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 25-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-29-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 16-2011, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
