



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 53 HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS 
 836-053-1190 
 Annual Summary, Uniform Indicators of Network Adequacy 
 
 (1) An insurer offering managed health insurance or preferred provider organization insurance must submit its annual summary required under ORS 743.817 on March 1 of each year. Filing and reporting requirements in this rule apply to:  (a) A domestic insurer; and  (b) A foreign insurer transacting $2 million or more in health benefit plan premium in Oregon during the calendar year immediately preceding the due date of the required report.  (2) The annual summary must include the following matters for the immediately preceding calendar year as of December 31, according to the following uniform indicators:  (a) Whether the insurer has established a requirement or goal for accessibility that providers must meet, in terms of hours, days or weeks, or in the alternative an indication that the insurer does not establish and maintain such a requirement or goal, for the following categories:  (A) Preventive care;  (B) Routine primary care; and  (C) Urgent care.  (b) Whether accessibility to urgent care services outside of regular business hours differs by region or geographical area of the state that the insurer serves, and if so, a description of the differences among the regions or areas.  (c) The number of communications expressing a concern regarding difficulty in obtaining an appointment with a provider, including but not limited to the inability to find a provider with an open practice or to an unreasonable length of time to wait for an appointment. Communications under this section include but are not limited to complaints and grievances from enrollees.  (d) Whether the insurer has a process for ensuring network adequacy that includes oversight, communication and monitoring, and the following information about the process:  (A) The position and department of the individual with the responsibility of ensuring and monitoring the network;  (B) The telephone number, electronic mail address, address or website that enrollees are requested to use in order to express concerns regarding network adequacy;  (C) The website at which enrollees can locate the provider directory, and the frequency with which the website is updated.  (D) The frequency with which an enrollee is specifically notified of changes to the insurer's provider network and the medium or media by which an enrollee is informed.  (E) Information regarding the insurer's monitoring of its network adequacy, including:  (i) The intervals between formal reviews;  (ii) Whether the results of the reviews are reported to senior management or the board of directors, or both, or neither; and  (iii) How the insurer uses its formal reviews to monitor and improve accessibility for clients.  (e) Whether the insurer's provider directory and updates to the directory disclose which providers are fluent in languages other than English and, if so, what languages are available.  (f) Whether the insurer keeps information on which of the physicians in its network have open practices, and if so:  (A) The frequency with which the insurer updates the information; and  (B) Whether enrollees have access to the information and if so, how enrollees may obtain the information.  (g) Any other information that the insurer determines to be significant in documenting the scope of its network or its monitoring of access to services.  (3) To minimize duplicative reporting, an insurer may meet the requirements of section (2) of this rule by submitting to the department either of the following:  (a) A copy of a report prepared by the insurer for a national accreditation organization. An insurer submitting a copy of a report under this subsection must provide addenda to the report with additional information if the department determines that the report does not provide the information required by section (2) of this rule.  (b) An addendum to an annual filing of the immediately preceding year:  (A) Stating, if applicable, that no information has changed since the previous annual filing; or  (B) Identifying, if applicable, only the information that has changed since the previous annual filing.  (4) An insurer may not submit the addendum described in section (3)(b) of this rule in two consecutive years. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 743.819 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 743.817 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 12-2013, f. 12-31-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 19-2002, f. 9-27-02, cert. ef. 9-28-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 1-1998, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
