



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 SURFACE WATER REGISTRATIONS  AND THE ADJUDICATION PROCESS 
 690-028-0029 
 Review of Registration Statements and Orders of Registration 
 
 (1) When a registration statement is received in acceptable form by the Department, the Department shall indorse on the registration the date it was received. The statement shall be filed and an acknowledgement letter sent to the registrant. A copy of the claim shall be sent to the watermaster.  (2) Notice of each registration shall be published in the Department’s public notice of applications. Notice may also be published in a newspaper within the general area of the claim.  (3) The Department shall review each registration to identify new or conflicting uses of water and those persons that may be impacted by enforcement of the claim. If two or more persons are impacted by the registration, then an informational public hearing may be scheduled to determine the extent of the problem. Additional information may be requested of the registrant. Persons may meet at their own discretion to stipulate agreements for the Director to review. A field inspection may be made of any registration.  (4) The Director shall prepare a proposed order of registration for each registration. If the registration is affirmed or modified the Director shall identify:  (a) The name and mailing address of the claimant;  (b) The claimed beneficial use of the water and the amount allowed;  (c) The stream from which the water is diverted or in which the instream right is reserved;  (d) The tentative priority date of the claimed use of water;  (e) The period of the year during which the claimed use of water is allowed;  (f) Location of the claim within the township and range, by quarter-quarter section, Donated Land Claim, or Government Lot;  (g) The location of the diversion point by reference to an established public land survey corner;  (h) The location of the place of use, and if for irrigation, the area irrigated in each quarter-quarter section; and  (i) Any conditions or stipulation that have been added to the registration, such as flow monitoring requirements.  (5) If the registration is rejected the Director shall state the basis for the rejection.  (6) Upon completion of the review, the Director shall mail a copy of the proposed order of registration to the registrant. The registrant may petition for a hearing within 20 days under ORS 183.415 to 183.470. If no hearing is requested the proposed order of registration becomes a final order of registration. The final order of registration shall be entered into the records of the Department and mailed to the registrant and the watermaster.  (7) A registrant may modify a claim prior to the final order of registration being entered. All modifications are subject to review under this rule, and no refunds of fees shall be awarded based on any modification.  (8) Upon entry of the Director’s final order of registration the registrant is prima facie entitled to appropriate the water to the extent and in the manner disclosed in the recorded registration statement and final order of registration.  (9) No registration statement recorded under this chapter or affirmed or modified by a final order of registration under OAR 690-028-0029 shall be construed as a final determination of any matter stated therein. The right of the registrant to appropriate surface or spring water under a recorded registration statement is subject to a determination under ORS 539.010 to 539.240, and is not final or conclusive until so determined. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 539 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 10-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
