



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 SALE OF FOREST PRODUCTS FROM LANDS OWNED OR MANAGED BY THE STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY 
 629-029-0020 
 Bid Preparation Instructions 
 
 Unless otherwise allowed by the STATE:  (1) Bid Compliance:  (a) Bids shall be typed or prepared in ink and shall be signed in ink by the bidder, or an authorized representative of the bidder.  (b) Bids shall be made on the form(s) provided unless bidders are otherwise instructed in the Notice of Timber Sale.  (c) Alterations or erasures, if any, shall be initialed in ink by the person signing the bid.  (d) Bids shall contain a fully executed bid package, including all required documents.  (2) Entering Bid Prices (unless otherwise indicated):  (a) Price of each item shall be clearly shown in spaces provided in the Form of Proposal.  (b) Numbers shall be stated both in writing and in figures. The written price shall prevail over the numerical price in case of differences.  (c) For recovery (scale) sales, bidders shall show both in writing and figures the price bid per MBF (or other designated unit of measurement).  (d) For cash (lump sum) sales, bidders shall show total sum price bid for all timber contained in the sale area(s), both in writing and figures.  (3) Certification of Eligibility to Bid on State Timber: Bidder shall completely fill out and submit with their bid a “Certification of Eligibility to Bid on State Timber” form. Any bidder who has within a 3-year period preceding a bid had one or more Federal, State or Local timber sales terminated for cause or default shall submit an explanation, in writing, with their bid for consideration by State. Any such explanations shall be submitted at the time of bid on a separate piece of paper. State will consider the following when considering acceptance or rejection of a bid based on previous terminations, defaults or other matters relating to timber sales:  (a) Have the underlying issues that were the cause of a default, termination or other action by a public agency been remedied?  (b) Is the past credit or payment history of the bidder with the public agency satisfactory?  (c) Can the bidder obtain surety bonding in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements contained in the contract(s) at issue?  (d) Have the underlying issues that were the cause of a default, termination or other action by the State Forester been remedied? 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 1-1997, f. 9-4-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
