



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING COUNCIL 
 839-011-0141 
 Apprenticeship and Training Committees — Minimum Guideline Standards 
 
 The Council may approve minimum guideline standards for occupations it deems necessary.  (1) At its discretion, or upon petition by two or more local committees directly affected by minimum guideline standards, the Council will direct the Division to convene a state committee composed of voting members of local committees training in the occupation. Division staff will organize the meeting time and location, and contact all appropriate local committees.  (a) Each local joint committee training in the occupation may appoint no more than one employer and one employee committee member (with alternates if desired) to the state committee pursuant to OAR 839-011-0074. Notification of this action must be submitted to the Division in writing. Appointments will be valid only after written notice of the names of the appointees is received by the Division at least one (1) day before a scheduled state guideline committee meeting.  (b) The employer and employee members of local trades committees (and alternates) shall represent their respective occupations on the state committee pursuant to ORS Chapter 660.155(2).  (c) Only properly appointed representatives to the state guideline committee will be permitted to vote on issues before the State Guideline Committee.  (d) A quorum shall consist of 50% plus one of the total appointed local joint committee representatives; local trade committee representatives will be counted only if they are present at the state committee meeting. A quorum of the total appointed local committee representatives constituted pursuant to this rule may revise the quorum requirement for future state committee meetings, pending review and approval by the Council.  (e) Each state committee may adopt policies and procedures consistent with ORS Chapter 660 as it deems necessary for the orderly conduct of its meetings.  (2) The state committee will develop or revise minimum guideline standards in accordance with the needs of the industry and occupation. This committee shall establish minimum guidelines in the following standards areas:  (a) Minimum qualifications;  (b) Hours of employment;  (c) Maximum probationary period;  (d) Maximum ratio of apprentices to journey workers and required supervision;  (e) Minimum work processes and approximate hours, and expected competencies (if desired); and  (f) Minimum related/supplemental instruction.  (3) If consensus is not reached by the state committee, a majority and minority report will be submitted with the proposed standards to the Council for consideration.  (4) New or revised minimum guideline standards shall be distributed to all local committees training in the occupation for review and comment prior to submission to the Council.  (a) Each local committee shall have not more than 30 days to present any written objections. This information shall be referred to the state committee for review.  (b) The state committee shall determine whether additional meetings are required then prepare its final recommendations to the Council.  (c) When majority and minority reports are submitted, the Council and the Division will take into consideration the geographic area covered by each participating committee as well as the number of apprentices served and the number of training agents affected in determining whether to accept the minimum guideline standard as submitted or approved amendments thereto.  (5) On-the-job training hours for a local committee may not fluctuate below the requirements dictated by minimum guideline standards. The variations must be within statutory limits governing the licensed occupations. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 660.120(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 660.120(2)(a) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 15-2015, f. & cert. ef. 11-12-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 1-2012, f. & cert. ef. 1-3-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 5-2011(Temp), f. 7-13-11, cert. ef. 7-18-11 thru 1-4-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 18-2010, f. 7-29-10, cert. ef. 8-1-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
