



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 475 1% FOR ART IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS 
 123-475-0085 
 Procedure for Relocation or Deaccession 
 
 (1) The Public Art Advisory Committee will undertake periodic reviews of the collection and review all Relocation and Deaccession requests submitted to the committee by Oregon Arts Commission staff on behalf of the Arts Commission, a Resident Agency, or the public.  (2) The Public Art Advisory Committee shall make recommendations to the Oregon Arts Commission on all Relocation and Deaccession requests.  (3) Sequence of Action.  (a) Upon receipt of a request for Relocation or Deaccession by a Resident Agency, citizen(s), or the Oregon Arts Commission or its staff, Oregon Arts Commission staff shall prepare a report to the Public Arts Advisory Committee that shall include the condition of the Work of Art, recent photographs, estimated value, reasons for considering Relocation or Deaccession and addressing the criteria contained in OAR 123-475-0080, options for relocating or repairing the Work of Art when applicable, opinion of the head of the Resident Agency, and any other supporting or relevant information.  (b) The Public Art Advisory Committee shall review the report and may direct Oregon Arts Commission staff to seek additional information about the Work of Art from the community where it is installed, the Artist, art galleries, curators, conservators, appraisers or other arts professionals.  (c) The Public Art Advisory Committee shall recommend to the Oregon Arts Commission whether the request for Relocation or Deaccession should be denied or granted in whole or in part. The Public Arts Advisory Committee may recommend modifying, relocating, selling, donating, disposing of or storing the Work of Art. The recommendation must address the following:  (A) Criteria contained in OAR 123-475-0075, if any, that have been met;  (B) Most appropriate action and method of action;  (C) Specific recommendation if the Work of Art is to be traded or sold for the purpose of purchasing another Work of Art by the same Artist;  (d) The Oregon Arts Commission staff shall prepare a report for consideration by the Oregon Arts Commission at a regularly scheduled meeting that includes at least the following:  (A) The Public Art Advisory Committee’s recommendations;  (B) The opinion of the head of the Resident Agency;  (C) To the extent required by any contract between the Contracting Agency and the Artist, the opinion of the Artist, if living, if the Artist has provided an opinion.  (e) If the Oregon Arts Commission determines that a Relocation or Deaccession request may be granted, the Oregon Arts Commission will notify the Contracting Agency of its approval.  (4) Method for Relocation: On rare occasions, a Work of Art in the State of Oregon Public Art Collection may be removed from its original location in a State Building. Works of Art will be removed only with the approval of the head of the Resident Agency (or designee), and the Oregon Arts Commission. When considering new locations, the following criteria apply:  (a) The new location must be a State Building;  (b) If the new location is a different facility, the new Resident Agency must be willing to accept the Work of Art on long-term loan, for a period of at least five years.  (c) If the new location is a different facility, the new Resident Agency must be willing to provide for security and maintenance of the Work of Art.  (d) The new location must be viewed by a broad range of citizens.  (5) Methods of Deaccession: Works of Art will be deaccessed only with the approval of the Head of the Resident Agency (or designee) and the Oregon Arts Commission. Deaccession shall be accomplished in one of the following manners as determined by the Oregon Arts Commission to be in the best interests of the citizens of Oregon, the State of Oregon Public Art Collection, and the public trust invested in the Oregon Arts Commission as the steward of the collection:  (a) Sale or Trade.  (A) If the Work of Art has not been appraised in the past five years, a certified appraisal will be conducted.  (B) If stated in the approved recommendation, the Artist will be given first option to purchase or trade the Work of Art.  (C) Sale may be by auction, gallery resale or direct bidding by individuals, in compliance with state law and policies governing surplus property.  (D) Trade may be through the Artist or gallery, museum or other institution for one or more Works of Art of comparable value by the same Artist.  (E) No Works of Art may be sold or traded to members or staff of the Arts Commission or Public Art Advisory Committee or their immediate families.  (F) Proceeds from the sale of a Work of Art shall be used to purchase artwork in keeping with the definitions and limitations of the Program and in accordance with the Oregon Arts Commission’s decision to approve Deaccession. Funds may be expended with the oversight of the Public Art Advisory Committee. Any preexisting contractual agreements between the Artist and the state regarding resale shall apply.  (b) Destruction of a Work of Art that is deteriorated or damaged beyond repair, or beyond value of the Work of Art, and therefore deemed to be of negligible value. Alternatively, the Work of Art may be returned, in present condition, to the Artist, if living, to the state or representative of the Artist, or to an art conservation research or training facility as a disposable Work of Art.  (c) If the Oregon Arts Commission is unable to dispose of the Work of Art in a manner described in this section, the Work of Art may be donated to a non-profit organization or otherwise disposed of as the Oregon Arts Commission determines reasonable.  (6) Costs for Relocation or Deaccession. Unless otherwise requested by a person or agency requesting Relocation or Deaccession and approved by the Public Art Advisory Committee, costs for appraising, cleaning or minor repairs to a Work of Art as needed to be suitable for display should be charged to the original Resident Agency. Transportation to storage or a new location should be charged to the original Resident Agency. Installation or any major conservation, reframing, or similar activity should be charged to the new Resident Agency. Costs may be negotiated in the best interests of each entity.  (7) Compliance with Applicable Policies and Regulations. Decaccession of Works of Art shall be done in a manner that complies with all other applicable state and federal law. For example, Decaccession must comply with applicable procedures and laws relating to the disposition of State property and with laws protecting Artists’ rights. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 359.025 & 359.142 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 276 .073 - 276 .090 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 190-020-0085, OBDD 36-2010, f. 10-14-10, cert. ef. 11-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OAC 1-2010, f. 6-30-10, cert. ef. 7-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
