



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 HOSPITAL SERVICES 
 410-125-0230 
 Qualified Directed Payments 
 
 Qualified Directed Payments (QDP) are payments made by the Oregon Health Authority (Authority) to Coordinated Care Organizations (CCOs) from three Quality and Access pools for distinct provider classes as follows: (i) Rural Type A and Type B hospitals,  (ii)Public Academic Health Centers and (iii) DRG hospitals. Each provider class is defined in §438.6(c) Preprint forms approved by the U.S. Department of health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. QDPs are tied to inpatient and outpatient encounters with  Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) members enrolled in  Coordinated Care Organizations. However, the Authority does not make Qualified Directed Payments for encounters with members who received Citizenship Waived Medical (CWM) or CWM Plus Benefit Packages. 

 (1) Type A and Type B hospitals: 

 (a) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment only if the Type A or Type B hospital meets criteria established by the Authority for the Type A or Type B hospital Quality and Access program in accordance with applicable federal requirements, which may be updated as needed. 

 (b) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment for each inpatient and outpatient encounter; one encounter per member, per day, per facility; 

 (c) QDP amounts shall be at two separate rates; one for inpatient encounters and one for outpatient encounters; 

 (d) Payment rates shall be set by the Authority and may be adjusted based on actual utilization and available Quality and Access Funds; 

 (e) The Authority shall create a monthly report to assist CCOs in distributing funds to the appropriate hospital. The report shall be distributed to each CCO and each Type A and Type B hospital; 

 (f) Within five (5) business days after receipt of the monthly report, the CCO shall submit an electronic payment to an account established by the hospital for the amount indicated on the report; 

 (g) Adjustments shall be processed weekly through the Medicaid payment system and included in the monthly report. 

 (2) Public Academic Health Centers: 

 (a) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment only if the public academic medical center meets criteria established by the Authority for the Public Academic Medical Center Quality and Access program in accordance with applicable federal requirements, which may be updated as needed. 

 (b) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment for each inpatient and outpatient encounter; one encounter per member, per day, per facility; 

 (c) QDP amounts shall be at two separate rates. One for inpatient encounters and one for outpatient encounters; 

 (d) Payment rates shall be set by the Authority and may be adjusted based on actual utilization and available Quality and Access Funds; 

 (e) The Authority shall combine the weekly encounters into a monthly report to assist CCOs in distributing the funds to the appropriate hospital. The report shall be distributed to each CCO and  public academic health center; 

 (f) Within five (5) business days after receipt of the monthly report, the CCO shall submit an electronic payment to an account established by each public health center for the amount indicated on the report; 

 (g) Adjustments shall be processed weekly through the Medicaid payment system and included in the monthly report. 

 (3) Diagnosis Related Grouper (DRG) Hospitals: 

 (a) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment only if the DRG Hospital meets criteria established by the Authority for the DRG Hospital Quality and Access Pool program in accordance with applicable federal requirements, which may be updated as needed. 

 (b) The Authority shall make a qualified directed payment for each inpatient and outpatient encounter; one encounter per member, per day, per facility; 

 (c) QDP amounts shall be at two separate rates. One for inpatient encounters and one for outpatient encounters; 

 (d) Payment rates shall be set by the Authority and may be adjusted based on actual utilization and available Quality and Access Funds; 

 (e) The Authority shall create a monthly report to assist CCOs in distributing funds to the appropriate hospital. The report shall be distributed to each CCO and each DRG hospital; 

 (f) Within five (5) business days after receipt of the monthly report, the CCO shall submit an electronic payment to an account established by the hospital for the amount indicated on the report; 

 (g) Adjustments shall be processed weekly through the Medicaid payment system and included in the monthly report. 

 (4) If an error is identified in the monthly report, the CCO shall make the payment based on the original amount provided in the report. The Authority shall identify separately the correction in the following month's report and adjust the total payment amount to account for the error. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & ORS 414.869 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.869 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 89-2023, amend filed 12/19/2023, effective 12/20/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 55-2023, temporary amend filed 06/30/2023, effective 07/01/2023 through 12/27/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 65-2022, amend filed 06/30/2022, effective 07/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 52-2019, amend filed 12/12/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 64-2017, adopt filed 12/29/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
