



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 MISCELLANEOUS, ORDERS IN OTHER THAN CONTESTED CASE 
 137-004-0050 
 Qualified Interpreters 
 
 (1) This rule applies to any hearing conducted by an agency in which the individual legal rights, duties or privileges of specific parties are determined if that determination is subject to judicial review by a circuit court or by the Court of Appeals.  (2) For purposes of this rule:  (a) An "assistive communication device" means any equipment designed to facilitate communication by a disabled person;  (b) An "individual with a disability" means a person who cannot readily understand the proceedings because of deafness or a physical hearing impairment, or cannot communicate in the proceedings because of a physical speaking impairment;  (c) A "non-English speaking" person means a person who, by reason of place of birth or culture, speaks a language other than English and does not speak English with adequate ability to communicate effectively in the proceedings;  (d) A "qualified interpreter" means:  (A) For an individual with a disability, a person readily able to communicate with the individual with a disability, interpret the proceedings and accurately repeat and interpret the statements of the individual with a disability to the presiding officer;  (B) For a non-English speaking person, a person readily able to communicate with the non-English speaking person and who can orally transfer the meaning of statements to and from English and the language spoken by the non-English speaking person. A qualified interpreter must be able to interpret in a manner that conserves the meaning, tone, level, style and register of the original statement, without additions or omissions. "Qualified interpreter" does not include a person who is unable to interpret the dialect, slang or specialized vocabulary used by the party or witness.  (3) If an individual with a disability is a party or witness in a hearing:  (a) The presiding officer shall appoint a qualified interpreter and make available appropriate assistive communication devices whenever it is necessary to interpret the proceedings to, or to interpret the testimony of, the individual with a disability.  (b) No fee shall be charged to the individual with a disability for the appointment of an interpreter or use of an assistive communication device. No fee shall be charged to any person for the appointment of an interpreter or the use of an assistive communication device if appointment or use is made to determine whether the person is disabled for purposes of this rule.  (4) If a non-English speaking person is a party or witness in a hearing:  (a) The presiding officer shall appoint a qualified interpreter whenever it is necessary to interpret the proceedings to a non-English speaking party, to interpret the testimony of a non-English speaking party or witness, or to assist the presiding officer in performing the duties of the presiding officer.  (b) No fee shall be charged to any person for the appointment of an interpreter to interpret the testimony of a non-English speaking party or witness, or to assist the presiding officer in performing the duties of the presiding officer. No fee shall be charged to a non-English-speaking party who is unable to pay for the appointment of an interpreter to interpret the proceedings to the non-English speaking party. No fee shall be charged to any person for the appointment of an interpreter if an appointment is made to determine whether the person is unable to pay or non-English speaking for the purposes of this rule.  (c) A non-English speaking party shall be considered unable to pay for an interpreter for purposes of this rule if:  (A) The party makes a verified statement and provides other information in writing under oath showing financial inability to pay for a qualified interpreter and provides any other information required by the agency concerning the inability to pay for such an interpreter; and  (B) It appears to the agency that the party is in fact unable to pay for a qualified interpreter.  (d) The agency may delegate to the presiding officer the authority to determine whether the party is unable to pay for a qualified interpreter.  (5) When an interpreter for an individual with a disability or a non-English speaking person is appointed or an assistive communication device is made available under this rule:  (a) The presiding officer shall appoint a qualified interpreter who is certified under ORS 45.291 if one is available unless, upon request of a party or witness, the presiding officer deems it appropriate to appoint a qualified interpreted who is not so certified.  (b) The presiding officer may not appoint any person as an interpreter if the person has a conflict of interest with any of the parties or witnesses, is unable to understand or cannot be understood by the presiding officer, party or witness, or is unable to work cooperatively with the presiding officer, the person in need of an interpreter or the representative for that person. If a party or witness is dissatisfied with the interpreter selected by the presiding officer, a substitute interpreter may be used as provided in ORS 45.275(5).  (c) If a party or witness is dissatisfied with the interpreter selected by the presiding officer, the party or witness may use any certified interpreter except that good cause must be shown for a substitution if the substitution will delay the proceeding.  (d) Fair compensation for the services of an interpreter or the cost of an assistive communication device shall be paid by the agency except, when a substitute interpreter is used for reasons other than cause, the party requesting the substitute shall bear any additional costs beyond the amount required to pay the original interpreter.  (6) The presiding officer shall require any interpreter for a person with a disability or a non-English speaking person to state the interpreter’s name on the record and whether he or she is certified under ORS 45.291. If the interpreter is not certified under ORS 45.291, the interpreter must state or submit his or her qualifications on the record and must swear or affirm to make a true and impartial interpretation of the proceedings in an understandable manner using the interpreter’s best skills and judgment in accordance with the standards and ethics of the interpreter profession.  (7) A person requesting an interpreter for a person with a disability or a non-English speaking person, or assistive listening device for the individual with a disability, must notify the agency or presiding officer as soon as possible, but no later than five business days before the proceeding.  (a) For good cause shown, the agency or presiding officer may waive the five-day advance notice.  (b) Notification to the agency or presiding officer must include:  (A) The name of the person needing a qualified interpreter or assistive communication device;  (B) The person’s status as a party or a witness in the proceeding; and  (C) If the request is in behalf of;  (i) An individual with a disability, the nature and extent of the individual’s physical hearing or speaking impairment, and the type of aural interpreter, or assistive communication device needed or preferred; or  (ii) A non-English speaking person, the language spoken by the non-English speaking person. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341 & OL 1999, Ch. 1041 (SB 38), Ch. 849 & OL 2001 & Ch. 242 (SB 76) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 9-2001, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
