



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 CLINICAL LABORATORIES 
 333-024-0016 
 Certification Categories
 
 
 (1) The four categories of clinical laboratories are: 

 (a) A waived laboratory which may perform only the following; dipstick or tablet reagent urinalysis (nonautomated), fecal occult blood, ovulation test-visual color comparison tests for human luteinizing hormone, urine pregnancy test-visual color comparison tests, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (nonautomated), hemoglobin-copper sulfate (nonautomated), blood glucose (by glucose monitoring devices cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration specifically for home use), spun microhematocrit, and hemoglobin and glucose by Hemocue, Chemtrak Accumeter cholesterol, body fluid occult blood, nitrazine pH paper for all body fluids except blood or any other tests which are categorized as waived for clinical laboratories, by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: 

 (A) A waived laboratory is exempt from personnel requirements, proficiency testing and routine on-site inspections. 

 (B) A waived laboratory shall follow manufacturer’s instructions for test performance. 

 (b) A physician performed microscopy procedure laboratory which may perform only tests in the waived category and the following: wet mounts (for presence or absence of bacteria, fungi, parasites and human cellular elements), all potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparations, pinworm examinations, fern tests, post-coital direct examinations of vaginal or cervical mucus, nasal smears for granulocytes, qualitative post-vasectomy semen analysis limited to presence or absence of sperm and motility, fecal leukocyte examinations, and urine sediment examinations, or any other tests which are categorized as provider-performed microscopy procedures for clinical laboratories, by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: 

 (A) A physician performed microscopy laboratory is exempt from routine on-site inspections; 

 (B) A physician performed microscopy laboratory shall follow manufacturer’s instructions for test performance; and 

 (C) A physician performed microscopy laboratory shall meet the applicable requirements for quality control, proficiency testing, quality assurance, records and reports. 

 (c) A moderate complexity laboratory which may perform waived, physician performed microscopy procedures, and tests identified as moderate complexity by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 

 (d) A high complexity laboratory which may perform all categories of testing including the specialties of cytogenetics, cytology, pathology, histocompatibility and radiobioassay. 

 (2) Any test not listed in the waived, physician performed microscopy procedures or moderate complexity category is high complexity. 

 (3) The category of any test may be obtained from the Public Health Division. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 438.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 438.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 21-2026, amend filed 05/20/2026, effective 05/21/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 6-1995, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 20-1994, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
