



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Vocational Rehabilitation Services - Chapter 582 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 STATE STANDARDS FOR PROVIDERS OF COMMUNITY REHABILITATION SERVICES 
 582-010-0022 
 Approval Policy for Category B Providers 
 
 (1) Except as provided at OAR 582-010-0022(2), Category B providers of community rehabilitation services are those providers paid by OVRS to provide the following listed services:  (a) Assessment for determining eligibility and vocational needs, including technicians for assessment tests;  (b) Job development, placement, and retention services;  (c) Orientation and mobility services;  (d) Extended employment;  (e) Supported employment services and extended services;  (f) Services to family members (except child care) when necessary to the vocational rehabilitation of the individual; and  (g) Services similar to the services described in OAR 582-010-0022(1)(a)–(g), including vendors who provide training, write resumes, consult on self-employment plans, assist with a self-employed business, or write PASS plans.  (2) Professionals licensed by a state or federal agency (excluding OVRS), acting within the scope of their license, and providing any services listed in OAR 582-010-0022(1) shall be regulated as Category A providers and not subject to 582-010-0022. The CRP Coordinator may exempt an employer from the rules in division 582-010 for services provided to a specific client that are not services for which the employer would be reimbursed on a routine basis.  (3) Except as provided in OAR 582-010-0022(8), Category B providers are eligible for the approved vendor list if they meet all of the following criteria prior to providing any services to OVRS or its clients in addition to compliance with any other applicable requirements in chapters 407 and 582 of the OARs:  (a) Submit materials required as part of the OVRS application process;  (b) Submit proof of insurance at the level established under Department of Administrative Services guidelines;  (c) Submit a signed Statement of Assurances and Conditions;  (d) Successfully complete the criminal history check requirements.  (A) OVRS requires that Category B providers complete criminal history checks at the time of application for placement on the Approved Vendor List and re-application for placement on the Approved Vendor List; and to complete a DHS criminal history check if required by OVRS as a result of information received about vendor qualifications, behavior or performance.  (B) At the time of application or re-application for placement on the Approved Vendor List, OVRS also requires that Category B providers complete criminal history checks with respect to all employees and volunteers who provide “care” (as defined at OAR 407-007-0210(4)) to OVRS clients.  (C) OVRS further requires that Category B providers complete criminal history checks with respect to each new employee or volunteer who will provide “care” (as defined at OAR 407-007-0210(4)) to OVRS clients prior to the start of care for an OVRS client.  (4) Providers of Category B community rehabilitation services that are non-profit or for-profit organizations, or sole proprietorships with employees/contractors who provide direct services to OVRS clients must provide verification of accreditation or proof of a pending application for accreditation.  (5) A Statement of Assurances and Conditions must be provided and signed by the designated representative of the provider, and reviewed mutually by OVRS and the provider for compliance and continued applicability, and must include:  (a) A description of the scope and nature of service(s), conditions, criteria and procedure under which each service is provided, and rates of payment for each approved service or group of services;  (b) A statement that prior authorization must be secured in writing from the referring counselor or other appropriate representative of OVRS before client services are provided at a cost to the local OVRS office;  (c) Assurances of compliance with State Standards and federal requirements as appropriate for the specific provider;  (d) Assurances that the provider will compile and submit, as required by OVRS, pertinent process and outcome data concerning the service(s) or groups of services provided; and  (e) Assurances that pertinent program and fiscal records shall be accessible for necessary review and/or audit by or for OVRS.  (6) Interim Approval may be granted to a CRP that has filed the necessary forms to obtain accreditation and is waiting for final "Approval.” If "Approval" has been delayed due to reasons of the accreditation body, an extended period of "Interim Approval" may be granted upon receipt of verification from the accreditation body that the delay is not the result of the CRPs failure to address deficiencies in a timely manner.  (7) If OVRS funds are available, grants may be awarded to CRPs who qualify under OAR 582-010-0022(4), unless prohibited by another rule, to assist with meeting CRP "Approval" requirements or to expand resources and services that will be made available to OVRS clients. Application for a grant must be made in writing and contain at a minimum:  (a) A description of the deficiency which prevents the CRP from gaining "Approval" status and how the funds will be used to address the deficiency, or a description of the desired resource or service expansion that the funds will provide along with a demonstration of need by OVRS for such resources or services;  (b) A detailed budget for the use of the grant funds; and  (c) Assurance that the CRP is prepared to assume all costs associated with maintaining a non-deficient status, and ongoing costs to maintain the new resources or services.  (8) Vendors that only provide training, write resumes, consult on self-employment plans, assist with a self-employed business, or write PASS Plans and who have no in-person contact with any OVRS clients are exempt from the criminal records check and insurance requirements of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 344.530 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 344.530 & 344.550 
 
 History: 
 
 

 
 Reverted to VRS 5-2004, f. & cert. ef. 8-5-04 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Suspended by VRS 1-2009(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-11-09 thru 8-9-09 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 VRS 5-2004, f. & cert. ef. 8-5-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
