



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Medical Board 
 Chapter 847 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDERS AND SUPERVISING PHYSICIANS 
 847-035-0025 
 Supervision 
 
 (1) A supervising physician is responsible for the following:  (a) Issuing, reviewing and maintaining standing orders within the scope of practice not to exceed the licensure level of the emergency medical services provider when applicable;  (b) Explaining the standing orders to the emergency medical services provider, making sure they are understood and not exceeded;  (c) Ascertaining that the emergency medical services provider is currently licensed and in good standing with the Division;  (d) Providing regular review of the emergency medical services provider’s practice by:  (A) Direct observation of prehospital emergency care performance by riding with the emergency medical service; and  (B) Indirect observation using one or more of the following:  (i) Prehospital emergency care report review;  (ii) Prehospital communications tapes review;  (iii) Immediate critiques following presentation of reports;  (iv) Demonstration of technical skills; and  (v) Post-care patient or receiving physician interviews using questionnaire or direct interview techniques.  (e) Providing or coordinating formal case reviews for emergency medical services providers by thoroughly discussing a case (whether one in which the emergency medical services provider has taken part or a textbook case) from the time the call was received until the patient was delivered to the hospital. The review should include discussing what the problem was, what actions were taken (right or wrong), what could have been done that was not, and what improvements could have been made; and  (f) Providing or coordinating continuing education. Although the supervising physician is not required to teach all sessions, the supervising physician is responsible for assuring that the sessions are taught by a qualified person.  (2) The supervising physician may delegate responsibility to his/her agent to provide any or all of the following:  (a) Explanation of the standing orders to the emergency medical services provider, making sure they are understood, and not exceeded;  (b) Assurance that the emergency medical services provider is currently licensed and in good standing with the Division;  (c) Regular review of the emergency medical services provider’s practice by:  (A) Direct observation of prehospital emergency care performance by riding with the emergency medical service; and  (B) Indirect observation using one or more of the following:  (i) Prehospital emergency care report review;  (ii) Prehospital communications tapes review;  (iii) Immediate critiques following presentation of reports;  (iv) Demonstration of technical skills; and  (v) Post-care patient or receiving physician interviews using questionnaire or direct interview techniques.  (d) Provide or coordinate continuing education. Although the supervising physician or agent is not required to teach all sessions, the supervising physician or agent is responsible for assuring that the sessions are taught by a qualified person.  (3) Nothing in this rule may limit the number of emergency medical services providers that may be supervised by a supervising physician so long as the supervising physician can meet with the emergency medical services providers under his/her direction for a minimum of two hours each calendar year.  (4) An emergency medical services provider may have more than one supervising physician as long as the emergency medical services provider has notified all of the supervising physicians involved, and the emergency medical services provider is functioning under one supervising physician at a time.  (5) The supervising physician must report in writing to the Authority’s Chief Investigator any action or behavior on the part of the emergency medical services provider that could be cause for disciplinary action under ORS 682.220 or 682.224. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 682.245 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 682.245 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMB 30-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-22-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMB 13-2011, f. & cert. ef. 7-13-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ME 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 2-15-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ME 6-1991, f. & cert. ef. 7-24-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ME 13-1984, f. & ef. 8-2-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ME 2-1983, f. & ef. 7-21-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
