



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
 660-009-0005 
 Definitions
 
 
 For purposes of this division, the definitions in ORS chapter 197 and the statewide planning goals apply, unless the context requires otherwise. In addition, the following definitions apply: 

 (1) “Developed Land” means non-vacant land that is likely to be redeveloped during the planning period. 

 (2) “Development Constraints” means factors that temporarily or permanently limit or prevent the use of land for economic development. Development constraints include, but are not limited to, wetlands, environmentally sensitive areas such as habitat, environmental contamination, slope, topography, cultural and archeological resources, infrastructure deficiencies, parcel fragmentation, or natural hazard areas. 

 (3) “Industrial Use” means employment activities generating income from the production, handling or distribution of goods. Industrial uses include, but are not limited to: manufacturing; assembly; fabrication; processing; storage; logistics; warehousing; importation; distribution and transshipment; and research and development. Industrial uses may have unique land, infrastructure, energy, and transportation requirements. Industrial uses may have external impacts on surrounding uses and may cluster in traditional or new industrial areas where they are segregated from other non-industrial activities. 

 (4) "Locational Factors" means market factors that affect where a particular type of industrial or other employment use will locate. Locational factors include, but are not limited to, proximity to raw materials, supplies, labor, services, markets, or educational institutions; access to transportation and freight facilities such as rail, marine ports and airports, multimodal freight or transshipment facilities, and major transportation routes; and workforce factors (e.g., skill level, education, age distribution). 

 (5) "Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO)" means an organization designated by the Governor to coordinate transportation planning on urban land of the state including such designations made subsequent to the adoption of this division. The Longview-Kelso-Rainier MPO and Walla Walla Valley MPO are not considered an MPO for the purposes of this division. Cities with less than 2,500 population are not considered part of an MPO for purposes of this division. 

 (6) “Other Employment Use” means all non-industrial employment activities including the widest range of retail, wholesale, service, non-profit, business headquarters, administrative and governmental employment activities that are accommodated in retail, office and flexible building types. Other employment uses also include employment activities of an entity or organization that serves the medical, educational, social service, recreation and security needs of the community typically in large buildings or multi-building campuses. 

 (7) "Planning Area" means the area within an existing or proposed urban growth boundary. Cities and counties with urban growth management agreements must address the urban land governed by their respective plans as specified in the urban growth management agreement for the affected area. 

 (8) “Prime Industrial Land” means land suited for traded-sector industries as well as other industrial uses providing support to traded-sector industries. Prime industrial lands possess site characteristics that are difficult or impossible to replicate in the planning area or region. Prime industrial lands have necessary access to transportation and freight infrastructure, including, but not limited to, rail, marine ports and airports, multimodal freight or transshipment facilities, and major transportation routes. Traded-sector has the meaning provided in ORS 285B.280. 

 (9) “Serviceable” means the city or county has determined that public facilities and transportation facilities, as defined by OAR 660, divisions 11 and 12, currently have adequate capacity for development planned in the service area where the site is located or can be upgraded to have adequate capacity within the 20-year planning period. 

 (10) “Short-term Supply of Land” means suitable land that is ready for construction within one year of an application for a building permit or request for service extension. Engineering feasibility is sufficient to qualify land for the short-term supply of land. Funding availability is not required. “Competitive Short-term Supply” means the short-term supply of land provides a range of site sizes and locations to accommodate the market needs of a variety of industrial and other employment uses. 

 (11) ”Site Characteristics” means the attributes of a site necessary for a particular industrial or other employment use to operate. Site characteristics include, but are not limited to, a minimum acreage or site configuration including shape and topography, visibility, specific types or levels of public facilities, services or energy infrastructure, or proximity to a particular transportation or freight facility such as rail, marine ports and airports, multimodal freight or transshipment facilities, and major transportation routes. 

 (12) ”Suitable” means serviceable land designated for industrial or other employment use that provides, or can be expected to provide the appropriate site characteristics for the proposed use. 

 (13) “Target Industry” means an economic subsector defined by the 2022 U.S. Census Bureau Economic Census through the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) using a 3-digit code or more specific industry classification. 

 (14) “Total Land Supply” means the supply of land estimated to be adequate to accommodate industrial and other employment uses for a 20-year planning period. Total land supply includes the short-term supply of land as well as the remaining supply of lands considered suitable and serviceable for the industrial or other employment uses identified in a comprehensive plan. Total land supply includes both vacant and developed land. 

 (15) “Vacant Land” means a lot or parcel: 

 (a) Equal to or larger than one half-acre not currently containing permanent buildings or improvements; or 

 (b) Equal to or larger than five acres where less than one half-acre is occupied by permanent buildings or improvements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 16-2024, amend filed 12/20/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 7-2005, f. 12-13-05, cert. ef. 1-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1986, f. & ef. 10-10-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
