



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Corporation Division - Chapter 160 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 NOTARIES PUBLIC 
 160-100-1020 
 Lesson Plan 
 
 A lesson plan must meet the following requirements:  (1) The lesson plan must be based on the laws of Oregon concerning the functions and duties of a notary public. The lesson plan must cover at least the Oregon Notary Public Knowledge Statements, hereby incorporated by reference. The Oregon Notary Public Knowledge Statements may be obtained from the Secretary of State by request.  (2) The lesson plan must contain a table of contents, and the pages of the lesson plan must be consecutively numbered.  (3) The lesson plan must provide sufficient detail to enable the Secretary to evaluate the specific information to be presented and to determine the accuracy of the information to be presented.  (4) The lesson plan must contain the procedures to ensure that a person attending a course of study is present for the required time.  (5) The lesson plan must include a schedule of the time allotted for the following:  (a) Break periods, if any;  (b) Each major subject area;  (c) Each audio visual aid to be used, if any;  (d) Each student participation activity, if any.  (6) Completion, correction, and discussion of any practice tests used and the method of correction to be used, if any.  (7) If any movie or video is used for instruction, the lesson plan must include a brief synopsis of the information presented therein. The synopsis must detail the specific information presented by the movie or video. In addition, the provider must include the movie or video in the materials presented to the Secretary of State for review.  (8) Copies of any handout materials, workbooks, visuals aids, description of student participation exercises, and practice tests used during the course of study must be submitted for approval with the lesson plan.  (9) If the course provides for an evaluation by the students, time to complete the evaluation must not be included as part of the course of instruction.  (10) All materials submitted to the Secretary of State under this rule become the property of the Secretary of State and may be returned to the provider at the sole discretion of the Secretary. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 194.360 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 194.360 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 2-2013, f. 8-30-13, cert. ef. 9-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 3-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-19-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
