



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 646 IDENTITY THEFT 
 441-646-0030 
 Use of Social Security Number 
 
 (1) Materials or documentation of a transaction or service are requested by a consumer when the consumer initiated the contact with the person that mails the documents to the consumer, such as a loan application started by the consumer by telephone, tax returns prepared from information the consumer left with a tax preparer, or periodic updated or renewal materials for a product or service purchased by the consumer.  (2) A person that prints a Social Security number on materials mailed to a consumer concerning a transaction or service requested by the consumer may not print the Social Security number on any part of the materials visible to the general public.  (3) When the consumer does not initiate contact with the person, and there is no federal or state law requiring the Social Security number to be printed on the materials, a person may not print the consumer’s unredacted Social Security number on materials mailed to the consumer.  (4) A person may use or print a Social Security number for internal verification or administrative purposes, including materials sent outside of the person’s business, when the SSN is not visible to, or accessible by, the general public.  (5) Persons are strongly encouraged to use a number other than the consumer’s Social Security number to identify the consumer. If a person does use the consumer’s Social Security number for identification, the person’s plan to safeguard personal information under ORS 646A.622, including Social Security numbers, must specify reasonable procedures that:  (a) Prevent unauthorized access to the Social Security number; and  (b) Require electronic or physical transmission of the Social Security number to persons outside of the person’s business to be accomplished through secure means, such as encryption or the use of a redacted Social Security number. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 646A.626 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 646A.620 & 646A.622 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 10-2008, f. & cert. ef. 11-5-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
