



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0540 
 Quinella Double Pools 
 
 (1) The Quinella Double requires selection of the first two finishers, irrespective of order, in each of two specified contests.  (2) The net Quinella Double pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) If a coupled entry or mutuel field finishes as the first two contestants in either contest, as a single price pool to those selecting the coupled entry or mutuel field combined with the next separate betting interest in the official order of finish for that contest, as well as the first two finishers in the alternate Quinella Double contest; otherwise  (b) As a single price pool to those who selected the first two finishers in each of the two Quinella Double contests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a profit split to those who selected the first two finishers in either of the two Quinella Double contests; but if there are no such wagers on one of those contests; then  (d) As a single price pool to those who selected the first two finishers in the one covered Quinella Double contest; but if there were no such wagers; then  (e) The entire pool shall be refunded on Quinella Double wagers for those contests.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first in either of the two Quinella Double contests involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the Quinella Double pool shall be distributed to those selecting the coupled entry or mutuel field combined with the next separate betting interest in the official order of finish for that contest.  (b) Contestants representing two betting interests, the Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (c) Contestants representing three or more betting interests, the Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (4) If there is a dead heat for second in either of the Quinella Double contests involving contestants representing the same betting interest, the Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (5) If there is a dead heat for second in either of the Quinella Double contests involving contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as profit split.  (6) Should a betting interest in the first half of the Quinella Double be scratched prior to the first Quinella Double contest being declared official, all money wagered on combinations including the scratched betting interest shall deducted from the Quinella Double pool and refunded.  (7) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Quinella Double be scratched prior to the close of wagering on the first Quinella Double contest, all money wagered on combinations including the scratched betting interest shall be deducted from the Quinella Double pool and refunded.  (8) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Quinella Double be scratched after the close of wagering on the first Quinella Double contest, all wagers combining the winning combination in the first contest with a combination including the scratched betting interest in the second contest shall be allocated a consolation payoff. In calculating the consolation payoff the net Quinella Double pool shall be divided by the total amount wagered on the winning combination in the first contest and an unbroken consolation price obtained. The unbroken consolation price is multiplied by the dollar value of wagers on the winning combination in the first contest combined with a combination including the scratched betting interest in the second contest to obtain the consolation payoff. Breakage is not utilized in this calculation. The consolation payoff is deducted from the net Quinella Double pool before calculation and distribution of the winning Quinella Double payoff. In the event of a dead heat involving separate betting interests, the net Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (9) If either of the Quinella Double contests is cancelled prior to the first Quinella Double contest, or the first Quinella Double contest is declared “no contest,” the entire Quinella Double pool shall be refunded on Quinella Double wagers for those contests.  (10) If the second Quinella Double contest is cancelled or declared “no contest” after the conclusion of the first Quinella Double contest, the net Quinella Double pool shall be distributed as a single price pool to wagers selecting the winning combination in the first Quinella Double contest. If there are no wagers selecting the winning combination in the first Quinella Double contest, the entire Quinella Double pool shall be refunded on Quinella Double wagers for those contests. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
