



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Emergency Management 
 Chapter 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 FUEL STORAGE FACILITY COMPATIBILITY FUND GRANT PROGRAM 
 104-055-0070 
 Grant Agreements and Conditions 
 
 (1) The Authority shall provide a Grant Agreement to each Fuel Storage Facility Compatibility Fund Grantee which specifies the legal requirements for grant management, reporting and record keeping as well as the Authority’s monitoring and grant closeout procedures.  (2) The Authority will only enter into new agreements or may amend agreements with prior Grantees if all reporting obligations under the earlier agreements have been met.  (3) The Authority and the Applicant must execute a Grant Agreement or amendment prior to any funds being expended for eligible expenses for which the Applicant will request reimbursement.  (4) If the Grant Agreement or amendment has not been fully executed by all the parties within 60 days of the Grantee receiving the agreement, funding will be terminated. The money allocated to the grant will then be available for reallocation by the Authority consistent with the application rankings established by the Grant Selection Committee.  (5) The Authority shall establish Grant Agreement conditions. Grantees shall comply with all grant agreement conditions. In addition, Grantees shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and ordinances.  (6) Upon notice to a Grantee in writing, the Authority may terminate funding for Projects not completed in the prescribed time and manner. Money allocated to the Project but not used will be available for reallocation by the Authority consistent with the application rankings established by the Grant Selection Committee.  (7) The Grantee will obtain the necessary permits and licenses from local, state or federal agencies or governing bodies. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 85 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 85 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OEM 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-27-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
