



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Physical Therapy 
 Chapter 848 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 LICENSED PHYSICAL THERAPISTS AND LICENSED PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANTS 
 848-010-0027 
 Temporary Permit for Military Spouse 
 
 (1) To qualify for a temporary permit to practice under this section, a military spouse must: 
(a) Be the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces of the United States who is stationed in Oregon. 
(b) Hold a qualified license. For the purpose of this rule, a qualified license means a current, unrestricted license to practice in good standing as a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant in another US state or jurisdiction that the Board determines has licensure requirements that are substantially similar to Oregon requirements for licensure. To be considered substantially similar, the licensure requirements of the other US state or jurisdiction must include at minimum: 
(A) Verification of graduation from a CAPTE accredited educational program of physical therapy. 
(B) Verification of passage of the NPTE exam; 
(C) A fingerprint-based criminal background check; 
(D) Verification of any other health practitioner licenses held; and; 
(E) Continuing Competence (Continuing Education) requirements. 
(c) Demonstrate competency to practice by providing sufficient proof that individual received a passing score on the Oregon Jurisprudence Exam (OR-JAM). 
(2) A temporary permit to practice under this section will be granted upon completion and acceptance of: 
(a) A completed military spouse application form; 
(b) Payment of application fee as listed in OAR 848-005-0020;  
(c) Submittal of proof that the individual is the spouse of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces; 
(d) Submittal of proof of spouse’s active military duty order in Oregon; 
(e) Passing score on OR-JAM; 
(f) Verification of the substantial equivalency of licensure requirements of the qualifying license held in other US state or jurisdiction. 
(3) A temporary permit to practice under this section is valid until the earliest of the following: 
(a) Two years after the date of issuance; 
(b) The date the spouse of the person to whom the permit was issued completes their term of service in this state; 
(c) The date the person’s qualifying license issued by another state or jurisdiction expires, is revoked, suspended, or otherwise no longer valid. 
(4) An individual granted a temporary permit to practice under this section, who subsequently applies for application by endorsement under OAR 848-010-0020 within 60 days of the issue date of the temporary permit may apply the temporary permit fee to the cost of application by endorsement. 
(5) An individual granted a temporary permit to practice under this section is required to comply with all statutes and rules that apply to an individual licensed as a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant, with the exception of: 
(a) Individuals are not eligible for a compact privilege. 
(b) Individuals do not need to complete the continuing competency requirements in OAR 848-035-0020. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2019 Oregon Laws Chapters 142, 626 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2019 Oregon Laws Chapters 142, 626 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PTLB 7-2019, adopt filed 12/20/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
