



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Rail Division - Chapter 741 
 
 
 
 
 Division 600 ACCIDENT NOTICES AND REPORTS 
 741-600-0020 
 Accidents Requiring Notice and Report 
 
 The notice required herein shall be given to the Department from the office of an official designated by the railroad. Each railroad shall inform the Department in writing of the name, address and telephone number of the official designated. Such notice shall be provided between January 1 and January 15 of each year, except that additional written notice shall be provided in the event of any change in designation of official or procedure to be followed:  (1) Except as otherwise ordered, the Department shall be notified within 24 hours (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays), after occurrence of:  (a) All accidents occurring at public and private grade crossings or between such crossings, in which a collision occurs between the person or vehicle of a user of a roadway and railroad equipment;  (b) All derailments or other accidents involving locomotives, cars and trains resulting in loss of human life or serious injury to person or serious damage to property. Any damage to protective devices must be reported to the Department within seven days from such damage;  (c) All collisions of locomotives, cars and trains resulting in loss of human life or serious injury to person or serious damage to property;  (d) All bridge failures resulting in loss of human life or serious injury to person or serious damage to property;  (e) Any other accident arising from or connected with the operation of a railroad, which accident is attended by loss of human life or serious injury to person or serious damage to property.  (2) Notice shall be given by telegraph, telephone or in person, and shall include:  (a) Date of accident;  (b) Time;  (c) Name of line and railroad milepost expressed to the nearest tenth;  (d) Name of city;  (e) ODOT or OPUC crossing number if applicable;  (f) Kind of accident;  (g) Equipment involved; and  (h) Number of persons killed or seriously injured.  (3) In addition to the notice required above, all such accidents shall be reported in writing to the Department by the proper official of such railroad on a form prescribed by the Department or by the United States Department of Transportation. The report shall be made immediately after the circumstances attending the accident have been ascertained, and not later than 30 days following the month in which the accident occurred. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 823 & 824 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 823.027 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RS 2-1996, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-96, Renumbered from 860-047-0005 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-1983, f. & ef. 3-16-83, Order No. 83-143 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
