



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 360 ADULT FOSTER HOMES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH INTELLECTUAL OR DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES 
 411-360-0055 
 Provider Enrollment Agreements, Contracts, and Residency Agreements 
 
 (1) MEDICAID PROVIDER ENROLLMENT AGREEMENT.  (a) An applicant or licensee who intends to provide care and services to support individuals who are or become eligible for Medicaid services must enter into a Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement with the Department, follow Department rules, and abide by the terms of the Agreement. A Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement is not approved unless the Department has determined that the applicant, licensee, co-licensee, or any owner or officer of the corporation, as applicable, is not listed on the Exclusion Lists for the Office of Inspector General or the U.S. General Services Administration (System for Award Management).  (b) An approved Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement does not guarantee the placement of individuals eligible for Medicaid services in an AFH-DD.  (c) An approved Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement is valid for the length of the license unless earlier terminated by the licensee or the Department. A Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement must be completed, submitted, approved, and renewed with each licensing cycle.  (d) An individual eligible for Medicaid services may not be admitted into an AFH-DD unless and until the Department has approved a Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement. Medicaid payment is not issued to a licensee without a current license and an approved Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement in place.  (e) The rate of compensation established by the Department is considered payment in full. The licensee may not request or accept additional funds or in-kind payment from any source.  (f) The Department does not issue payment for the date of the exit of an individual or for any time period thereafter.  (g) The licensee or the Department may terminate a Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement according to the terms of the Agreement.  (h) The Department may terminate a Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement under the following circumstances:  (A) The licensee fails to maintain substantial compliance with all related federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations; or  (B) The license to operate the AFH-DD has been voluntarily surrendered, revoked, or not renewed.  (i) The Department must terminate a Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement under the following circumstances:  (A) The licensee fails to permit access by the Department or CMS to any AFH-DD licensed to and operated by the licensee;  (B) The licensee submits false or inaccurate information;  (C) Any person with five percent or greater direct or indirect ownership in the AFH-DD did not submit timely and accurate information on the Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement form or fails to submit fingerprints if required under the background check rules in OAR 407-007-0200 to 407-007-0370;  (D) Any person with five percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest in the AFH-DD has been convicted of a criminal offense related to his or her involvement with Medicare, Medicaid, or Title XXI programs in the last 10 years; or  (E) Any person with an ownership or control interest, or who is an agent or managing employee of the AFH-DD fails to submit timely and accurate information on the Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement form.  (j) If a licensee submits notice of termination of the Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement, the licensee must concurrently issue a Notice of Involuntary Move or Transfer to each individual eligible for Medicaid services residing in the AFH-DD.  (k) If either a licensee or the Department terminates the Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement, the licensee may not re-apply for a new Medicaid Provider Enrollment Agreement for a period of no less than 180 days from the date the licensee or the Department terminated the Agreement.  (l) A licensee must forward all of the personal incidental funds (PIF) of an individual who is a recipient of Medicaid services within 10 business days of the death of the individual to the Estate Administration Unit, PO Box 14021, Salem, Oregon 97309-5024.  (2) PRIVATE PAY CONTRACT. A licensee who provides care and services to support individuals who pay with private funds or individuals receiving only day care services must enter into a written contract with the individual or the person paying for the care and services of the individual. The written contract is the admission agreement. The written contract must be signed by all parties prior to the admission of the individual and updated as needed. A copy of the contract is subject to review by the Department prior to licensure and prior to the implementation of any changes to the contract.  (a) The contract must include but not be limited to:  (A) A person-centered service plan;  (B) A schedule of rates; and  (C) Conditions under which the rates may be changed.  (b) The provider must give a copy of the signed contract to the individual, or as applicable the legal representative of the individual and retain the original contract in the record for the individual.  (c) The licensee must give written notice to a private pay individual, or as applicable the person paying for the care and services of the individual, 30 days prior to any general rate increases, additions, or other modifications of the rates unless the change is due to a medical emergency resulting in a greater level of care in which case the notice must be given within 10 days of the change.  (3) RESIDENCY AGREEMENT.  (a) The licensee must enter into a written Residency Agreement with each individual specifying, at a minimum, the following:  (A) The eviction process, notice requirements, and appeal rights available to each individual;  (B) The right of the individual to furnish and decorate his or her bedroom, subject to the limitations specified herein; and  (C) Policies and conditions for the following:  (i) Designated smoking areas. Use of tobacco must be in compliance with the Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act and OAR 411-360-0130;  (ii) Use and presence of medical marijuana in compliance with the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act and OAR 411-360-0140. The Residency Agreement expectations for medical marijuana must be reviewed and approved by the Department. If an individual intends to use medical marijuana in the AFH-DD, the Residency Agreement including guidelines for medical marijuana must be signed and dated by the individual or the legal representative of the individual and included in the record for the individual;  (iii) Restriction related to pets, if any;  (iv) Monthly charges and services to be provided; and  (v) Refunds in case of departure or death.  (b) The Residency Agreement may not violate the rights of an individual as stated in ORS 430.210, 443.739, OAR 411-360-0170, and 411-318-0010.  (c) The Residency Agreement may not be in conflict with any of these rules or the rules in OAR chapter 411, division 004 for home and community-based services and settings.  (d) Prior to implementing changes to the Residency Agreement, the Residency Agreement may be subject to review by the Department or the designee of the Department.  (e) The provider must review and provide a copy of the Residency Agreement to each individual, and as applicable the legal representative of the individual, at the time of entry and annually or as changes occur. The reviews must be documented by having the individual, or as applicable the legal representative of the individual, sign and date a copy of the Residency Agreement. A copy of the signed and dated Residency Agreement must be maintained in the record for the individual. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 443.725, 443.730, 443.735, 443.738, 443.742, 443.760, 443.765, 443.767, 443.775 & 443.790 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.705-825 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 21-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-29-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 30-2015(Temp), f. 12-31-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 34-2013, f. & cert. ef. 9-27-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
