



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 315 Youth Care Center Designation 
 416-315-0010 
 Program Review 
 
 (1) YCC programs are designed to offer treatment and rehabilitation services to the population served. Such programs may be operated within juvenile detention facilities only when:  (a) Youth enter the YCC program through a referral and screening process that assumes that placement of the youth in a treatment environment best meets the needs of the youth and is the least restrictive placement for the youth based on review of assessments and other supporting documentation;  (b) Treatment and rehabilitation services are offered to youth separate from those offered to youth placed in detention;  (c) YCC programs are reviewed and approved by the OYA prior to implementation.  (2) The OYA will review each request to operate a YCC. That review will include:  (a) A determination whether:  (A) Physical facilities comply with applicable rules of the Department of Human Services (DHS) and the State Fire Marshal;  (B) The YCC program currently employs capable, trained, and experienced personnel;  (C) The YCC program includes educational, vocational, recreational, medical, and counseling opportunities that best meet the needs of the youth served; and  (D) A system is in place to ensure that each youth’s county probation officer, or other applicable government agent, closely monitors the youth’s progress in the program and participates in the planning process.  (b) A review of:  (A) YCC program policies and procedures to ensure that care and rehabilitation services are offered separate from detention program services; and  (B) The YCC treatment and rehabilitation program to ensure that it includes, at a minimum:  (i) A clearly articulated program based on research and sound theory.  (ii) A referral process that identifies a target population to be served (including definition of those youth not appropriate for placement) and a screening process to ensure appropriate placement of youth;  (iii) A written, individualized service plan for each youth that outlines the treatment goals the youth must work toward during his/her stay and the youth’s transition needs. This plan will differ from those of other youth served;  (iv) A treatment environment that integrates each youth’s service plan goals into the program’s daily routine. This environment should be unique to each youth served;  (v) A physical environment that clearly distinguishes the YCC program from the detention environment;  (vi) A system that involves the youth’s service worker closely monitoring the youth’s progress in the program and participating in the youth’s planning process; and  (vii) A clearly defined length of stay based on the youth’s attainment of service plan goals. The youth’s length of stay in the YCC program may not be influenced by space needs within the detention facility.  (C) The most recent detention facility evaluation completed by the Department of Corrections.  (D) An on-site visit to review the YCC program. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420.855 - 420.885 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 12-2005, f. & cert. ef. 6-13-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
