



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 POLE LINES, BURIED CABLES, PIPE LINES, SIGNS, MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS 
 734-055-0100 
 Permit Allowing Open Cut of Road Surface 
 
 (1) Unless special permission is first obtained from the DM to install by open cut, a pipe line or conduit which crosses under the roadway of the highway, including road or street connections, or road approaches or driveways shall either be tunneled, jacked or driven, or placed in a hole bored under the surface for that purpose in accordance with the following provisions:  (a) Trenching in connection with any of these methods shall be no nearer the toe of the fill slope in fill sections or the point where the outer edges of the surfacing meets the subgrade in other sections than specified in the Special Provisions;  (b) If the tunneling method is used it shall be by an approved method which supports the surrounding materials so as to prevent caving or settlement. Areas around the installed pipe or conduit shall be backfilled with moist sand, granular material or cement grout filling all voids and packed in place with mechanical tampers or other approved devices. Lagging, bulkheading and timbering shall be removed as the backfilling progresses;  (c) When the jacking, driving, or boring method is used it shall be by approved means which will hold disturbances of surrounding material to a minimum. Sluicing and jetting is not permitted. Voids or displacement around the outside perimeter of the pipe, conduit or cable shall be filled with sand or cement grout packed in place.  (2) When special permission is granted to open cut the surfaced portion of the highway the following provisions shall be adhered to:  (a) The trench edges in paved areas shall be sawed or cut to neat lines by methods satisfactory to the DM to a depth sufficient to permit removal of pavement without damage to pavement to be left in place. Pavement within the cutting limits together with all other excavated material shall be removed and disposed of outside the highway right-of-way;  (b) In trenching across the highway, no more than 1/2 of the traveled way is to be opened at one time. The opened half shall be completely backfilled before opening the other half;  (c) Closure of intersecting streets, road approaches or other access points will not be permitted. Upon trenching across such facilities, steel running plates, planks or other satisfactory methods shall be used to provide for traffic to enter or leave the highway of adjacent property.  (d) Unless approved by the DM, no more than 300 feet of trench longitudinally along the highway shall be open at one time and no trench shall be left in an open condition overnight;  (e) Immediately after the facility authorized by the permit has been placed in the trench, the trench shall be backfilled to the standard specified by the DM, producing a density in place of not less than 95 percent of relative maximum density. Granular backfill material shall be placed to an elevation which will allow placing the following foundation material and wearing surface:  (A) Where original surface was asphalt concrete or bituminous treatment of mix:  (i) Wearing surface — Asphalt concrete placed to a compacted thickness of 4" or the thickness of the removed pavement, whichever is greater;  (ii) Foundation material — Either l"–0” or 3/4"–0" aggregate placed to a compacted thickness of 12" or the thickness of the removed stone base, whichever is greater.  (B) Where original surface was Portland cement concrete:  (i) Wearing surface — Portland cement concrete placed to a thickness of 6" or the thickness of the removed pavement, whichever is greater;  (ii) Foundation material — same as for asphalt concrete.  (C) Where original surface was crushed rock or gravel: Wearing surface and foundation material — Either l"–0" or 3/4"–0" aggregate placed to a total compacted thickness of 4" or the thickness of the removed stone base and wearing surface, whichever is greater;  (D) Placement of all materials in subsections (a) through (e) of this section shall conform to the requirements of the current Oregon Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Highway Construction.  (d) For a period of two years following the patching paved surface, applicant shall be responsible for the condition of said pavement patches, and during that time shall, upon request from the DM, repair to the DM’s satisfaction any of the said patches which become settled, cracked, broken or otherwise faulty. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 374 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
