



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING —  PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
 411-087-0410 
 Floors, Ceilings and Walls 
 
 (1) General Requirements:  (a) Finish, trim, wall and floor construction shall be free from spaces that can harbor rodents and insects;  (b) Finish on walls, floors and ceilings in resident areas shall provide for a low sheen surface to minimize reflected glare;  (c) Rooms containing heat producing equipment (such as boiler or heater rooms and laundries) shall be insulated and ventilated to prevent any floor surface above from exceeding a temperature ten degrees Fahrenheit (six degrees Celsius) above the ambient room temperature;  (d) The noise reduction criteria shown on Table 1 shall apply to partition, floor, and ceiling construction in resident areas.  (2) Floors and Wall Base:  (a) Floor materials shall be easily cleanable and have wear resistance appropriate for the location involved. Floors in shower and bath areas shall have a non-slip surface;  (b) Threshholds shall be constructed to facilitate use of wheelchairs and carts;  (c) Rugs or carpeting shall be Class I or II in accordance with NFPA 101, Chapter 6;  (d) Wall bases in kitchens, soiled utility rooms, central bathing areas, resident toilet rooms and janitor closets shall be self-coved (six inch minimum height), tightly sealed with the wall;  (e) Top-set rubber or vinyl base, where used, shall be sealed to the floor and walls.  (3) Ceilings:  (a) The minimum ceiling height shall be a nominal eight feet (2.44 m) with the following exceptions:  (A) Boiler rooms shall have ceiling clearances not less than two feet, six inches (76 cm) above the main boiler header and connecting piping;  (B) Rooms containing ceiling-mounted equipment shall have height required to accommodate the equipment;  (C) Ceilings in corridors, storage rooms, toilet rooms, and closets shall be not less than seven feet, six inches (2.29 m);  (D) Suspended tracks, rails, and pipes located in path of normal traffic shall be not less than six feet, eight inches (2.03 m) above the floor;  (E) Activity, recreation and exercise rooms, and similar spaces where impact noises may be generated shall not be located directly over resident bed areas unless special provisions are made to minimize such noise.  (b) Ceilings in the dietary and food preparation areas shall have a smooth surface, be light in color, and cover all overhead piping and duct work;  (c) Acoustical ceilings (i.e., acoustical tile) shall be provided for corridors in resident areas, nurses’ stations, dayrooms, recreation rooms, dining areas, and waiting areas. Other methods of sound control (e.g., carpeting) will be accepted by the Division if they meet STC classification requirements in Table 1 of these rules).  (4) Walls:  (a) Wall finishes shall be easily cleanable and, in the immediate area of plumbing fixtures, shall be smooth and moisture resistant;  (b) All walls of rooms in which food or drink is prepared or stored and in dishwashing areas shall be smooth, moisture resistant and light in color.  (5) Exceptions:  (a) Self-Covered Wall Base. Facilities which have been continuously licensed since January 1, 1992 shall not be required to have self-covered base as required in subsection (2)(d) of this rule unless otherwise provided by OAR 411-087-0010;  (b) Noise Reduction. Facilities which have been continuously licensed since January 1, 1992 shall not be required to meet noise reduction criteria as required in subsection (1)(d) of this rule unless otherwise provided by OAR 411-087-0010;  (C) Acoustical Ceilings. Facilities which have been continuously licensed since January 1, 1992 shall not be required to have acoustical ceilings as required in subsection (3)(c) of this rule unless otherwise provided by OAR 411-087-0010.  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.]  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 22-1991, f. 12-31-91, cert. ef. 1-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
