



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 BATTERER INTERVENTION PROGRAM RULES 
 137-087-0060 
 Admission Policies and Procedures 
 
 (1) Admission Criteria. A BIP shall have written criteria for accepting or refusing admission requests or referrals. An applicant or referral shall be referred to as a potential participant until the BIP admits the person to the BIP program. The admission criteria shall be available to potential participants, staff, victims, partners and the community, and shall include the following provisions:  (a) A BIP may reject any potential participant the BIP deems to be inappropriate. Inappropriate potential participants may include but are not limited to:  (A) Persons whose conduct causing the referral or application is not battering as defined in OAR 137-087-0005(2); and  (B) Persons whose behavior would be disruptive to meaningful participation in the BIP.  (b) Except for reasons identified in section (1) (a) of this rule, a BIP may not reject a potential participant referred for anger management that is intended to address battering.  (c) After admitting a participant, a BIP may terminate participation on the ground the admission was inappropriate based on the criteria in section (1) (a) of this rule.  (d) If a BIP rejects a referral as inappropriate, or terminates participation of a referral because admission was inappropriate, the BIP shall notify the referral source of the reason for rejection or termination of participation and, when appropriate, may make recommendations for other intervention, treatment services or criminal justice action. The BIP shall notify the referral source within seven working days of the rejection or termination of participation.  (e) A BIP's admission criteria and practices shall not discriminate against any potential participant based on national origin, race, culture, age, disability, religion, educational attainment or sexual orientation. Where there is a substantial barrier to a potential participant's participation in a BIP because of cultural background, language, literacy level, or disability, a BIP shall make reasonable modifications in policies, practices, and procedures to provide BIP services within available resources and in consultation with the referring LSA or MA.  (2) Intake procedures: Any BIP contact to obtain information from a victim or partner shall comply with the victim and partner interface standards in these rules, OAR 137-087-0015.  (a) A BIP shall use an intake procedure that includes an interview with the potential participant and written documentation of the information collected.  (b) The BIP shall request information from the potential participant and other relevant sources that the BIP shall use initially to determine whether the potential participant is appropriate and otherwise meets the BIP's admission criteria. That information includes, but is not limited to, the history of battering or violent criminal conduct; history of BIP participation; existence of protection orders; police reports; court orders; post-prison supervision or parole orders; involvement with DHS Child Welfare services; and terms and conditions of probation.  (c) In addition to the information requested pursuant to (b) above, the BIP shall request the following information from the potential participant and other relevant sources:  (A) Factors that may indicate a risk of future violence against the victim or other intimate partner, including but not limited to: safety concerns expressed by the victim; prior assaults against intimate partner(s), children and pets; criminal history; prior violation of conditional release or restraining order(s), other court orders or post-prison supervision or parole orders; history of stalking; extreme isolation or dependence on the victim or partner; attitudes that condone or support domestic violence; history of weapon possession or use; access to firearms; credible threats of injury, death or suicide; lack of personal accountability; minimization or denial of domestic violence history; and association with peers who condone domestic violence.  (B) Factors that may make participation in the BIP difficult or impossible, including but not limited to: lifestyle instability (e.g., unemployment or lack of housing); substance use, abuse or addiction; information about any mental health diagnosis that would affect ability to appropriately participate in the program; negative response to prior services (dropping out, lack of motivation and resistance to change); and persistent disruptive behavior.  (C) Factors that may indicate risk of future violence toward the BIP provider or other participants, including but not limited to a history of weapon use and violent criminal behavior.  (D) Demographic factors that may be used for statistical reasons or programmatic planning, including but not limited to age at time of offense and length of relationship with current or former victim(s).  (d) In addition to the information requested under subsections (b) and (c) of this rule, a BIP may request any additional information from the potential participant and other relevant sources.  (3) Participant Orientation to the BIP:  (a) A BIP shall use an orientation procedure to inform the participant about BIP requirements and expectations. A BIP may combine orientation with intake.  (b) The orientation shall provide the participant with the following BIP materials verbally and in writing:  (A) Statement of the BIP's philosophy consistent with these standards;  (B) Length of program, program attendance policies, and consequences of failure to comply with attendance policies;  (C) Specified fees, methods of payment, and consequences of failure to comply with payment agreements;  (D) Statement of active participation requirement, including personal disclosure and completion of group or class activities and assignments;  (E) Rules for group or class participation and statement of requirement to cooperate with those rules;  (F) Statement of requirement to develop and present an Accountability Plan;  (G) Statement of the BIP's drug and alcohol policy, including but not limited to a prohibition against attending any sessions while under the influence of drugs or alcohol;  (H) Statement of procedure for asserting grievances with the BIP;  (I) Prohibition of weapons possession while on BIP premises or when participating in a BIP function;  (J) Statement of any other BIP rules and conditions for participation in the BIP;  (K) Statement of the BIP's obligation to follow all federal or state laws and regulations, including these standards, relating to required disclosures in the case of: imminent danger to self, victim, current partner or others; or child abuse, elder abuse, abuse of vulnerable adults, or any other circumstances requiring reporting;  (L) Statement of the BIP's confidentiality policy as to participant records, identity of other BIP participants, and information disclosed by other participants in the BIP groups or classes;  (M) Notification that the BIP shall not provide the participant with any information about the victim or partner, either directly or in any judicial or administrative proceeding;  (N) Statement of a requirement that the participant execute all necessary documents to obtain information from, or release of information to, law enforcement, the courts, prior intervention or treatment services, social services, victim(s), partner(s), and others as appropriate; and  (O) Statement of criteria for program completion or release.  (4) Participant Record:  (a) A BIP shall keep the following information in each participant's record:  (A) Participant's name, address and phone number;  (B) Name and telephone number of contact in case of emergency;  (C) Fee agreement;  (D) Intake information obtained under section (2) of this rule, name of staff member completing intake, and participant's signed acknowledgement of receiving orientation materials;  (E) Copy of any signed releases of information;  (F) Records of participant's attendance and other participation;  (G) Information received by the BIP after intake, including court orders, police reports, protection orders and post-prison supervision or parole orders; and information as to any violations, offenses, new arrests or criminal charges during participation;  (H) Except for victim or partner contact information addressed in subsection (b) of this section, documentation of BIP disclosures, including name(s) of person(s) notified due to imminent danger or mandatory reporting consistent with these rules;  (I) Documentation of the participant's status as to completion of the requirements of the program, and any current obstacles to completion;  (J) Exit summary pursuant to OAR 137-087-0070; and  (K) Documentation of any refusal to provide requested information or to sign authorization forms.  (b) The following information is not a participant record and shall not be documented:  (A) Contact or other information about the whereabouts of a victim or partner, other information about a victim or partner not provided by the participant, and any information received by the BIP from a victim or partner;  (B) Any disclosures to a victim or partner, including any indication that the victim or partner was contacted by the BIP.  (c) Any record of information described in section (4) (b) of this rule shall comply with OAR 137-087-0015.  (5) Participant Access to Records. Subject to denial of access pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, a BIP shall provide the participant an opportunity to review information in the BIP's participant record under section 4(a) of this rule within a reasonable time of receiving a review request, and shall provide a copy of the records upon payment of the cost of duplication.  (a) A BIP may deny or limit a participant's access to the BIP's participant record:  (A) When the BIP determines that disclosure of the records is reasonably likely to endanger the life or safety of the participant or another person;  (B) When the BIP determines that the information was provided to the BIP on the condition that the information not be re-disclosed; or  (C) When the BIP determines that the information was compiled by the BIP in reasonable anticipation of, or for use in, a civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding involving the BIP.  (b) If a document in the BIP's records contains any information, obtained from a source other than the participant, about a person other than the participant, the BIP shall redact that information.  (c) Except as expressly provided in these rules, nothing in these rules is intended to create any expectation or right of privacy or confidentiality for any records, files or communications relating to potential participants or participants in BIP services. The BIP may use and disclose information unless and to the extent prohibited or restricted by federal or state law or regulation, including these rules. Use or disclosure of otherwise confidential medical, mental health and treatment records shall comply with applicable federal and state law and regulations.  (d) The BIP shall adopt policies that provide for the confidentiality of a participant record, to the greatest extent practicable consistent with these rules, of a participant who is a defendant participating in a domestic violence deferred sentencing agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 13-2012, f. 7-31-12, cert. ef. 8-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 16-2005, f. 11-23-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
