



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 148 CONSULTANT SELECTION: ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING, LAND SURVEYING AND RELATED SERVICES CONTRACTS 
 731-148-0240 
 Protest Procedures 
 
 (1) Applicability. This rule applies to RFPs processed under OAR 731-148-0220 (Formal Selection Procedure). 

 (2) RFP Protest and Request for Change. Consultants may submit a written protest of anything contained in an RFP and may request a change to any provision, specification or Contract term contained in an RFP, no later than seven calendar days prior to the date Proposals are due, unless a different deadline is indicated in the RFP. Each protest and request for change must include the reasons for the protest or request, and any proposed changes to the RFP provisions, specifications or Contract terms. ODOT may not consider any protest or request for change that is submitted after the submission deadline. 

 (3) Protest of Consultant Selection. 

 (a) Single Award. In the event of an award to a single Proposer, ODOT shall provide to all Proposers a copy of the selection notice that ODOT sent to the highest ranked Proposer. A Proposer who claims to have been adversely affected or aggrieved by the selection of the highest ranked Proposer may submit a written protest of the selection to ODOT no later than seven calendar days after the date of the selection notice unless a different deadline is indicated in the RFP. A Proposer submitting a protest must claim that the protesting Proposer is the highest ranked Proposer because the Proposals of all higher ranked Proposers failed to meet the requirements of the RFP or because the higher ranked Proposers otherwise are not qualified to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services described in the RFP. 

 (b) Multiple Award. In the event of an award to more than one Proposer, ODOT shall provide to all Proposers copies of the selection notices that ODOT sent to the highest ranked Proposers. A Proposer who claims to have been adversely affected or aggrieved by the selection of the highest ranked Proposers may submit a written protest of the selection to ODOT no later than seven calendar days after the date of the selection notices, unless a different deadline is indicated in the RFP. A Proposer submitting a protest must claim that the protesting Proposer is one of the highest ranked proposers because the Proposals of all higher ranked Proposers failed to meet the requirements of the RFP, or because a sufficient number of Proposals of higher ranked Proposers failed to meet the requirements of the RFP. In the alternative, a Proposer submitting a protest must claim that the Proposals of all higher ranked Proposers, or a sufficient number of higher ranked Proposers, are not qualified to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services described in the RFP. 

 (c) Effect of Protest Submission Deadline. ODOT may not consider any protest that is submitted after the submission deadline. 

 (4) Resolution of Protests. A duly authorized representative of ODOT shall resolve all timely submitted protests within a reasonable time following ODOT's receipt of the protest and once resolved, shall promptly issue a written decision on the protest to the Proposer who submitted the protest. If the protest results in a change to the RFP, the Contracting Agency shall revise the RFP accordingly and shall re-advertise the RFP in accordance with these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 279A.065(6)(a) & 279A.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279A.050(3), 279A.065 & 279C.110 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 3-2020, amend filed 07/17/2020, effective 07/17/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 1-2019, adopt filed 02/21/2019, effective 02/21/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
