



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0420 
 Music: Program Standards
 
 
 (1) Candidates who are prepared for the Music endorsement will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of students in music learning environments. 

 (2) The Commission may provide approval to an educator preparation program that prepares candidates for a Music endorsement only if it includes: 

 (a) Content that will enable candidates to gain the knowledge, skills, abilities, professional dispositions, and cultural competencies to meet the standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (b) A requirement for candidates to complete the Commission-approved test for Music or meet the requirements of at least one Multiple Measures content knowledge assessment option for this endorsement area; 

 (c) A requirement for candidates to complete a teacher performance assessment as provided in OAR 584-017-1100; and 

 (d) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships in Music classrooms; and 

 (e) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Music endorsement program. 

 (3) Standard 1: Technical Skills. Candidates must demonstrate proficiency in: 

 (a) At least one major performance area at a level appropriate for the particular music concentration; 

 (b) Understanding the repertory in their major performance area and the ability to perform from a cross-section of that repertory; 

 (c) The ability to read at sight with fluency demonstrating both general musicianship and, in the major performance area, a level of skill relevant to professional standards appropriate for the particular music concentration; 

 (d) Knowledge and skills sufficient to work as a leader and in collaboration on matters of musical interpretation. Rehearsal and conducting skills are required as appropriate to the particular music concentration; 

 (e) Keyboard competency; and 

 (f) Participating in ensemble experiences. Ensembles should be varied both in size and nature. 

 (4) Standard 2 : Musicianship Skills and Analysis . Candidate must demonstrate proficiency in: 

 (a) Understanding the common elements and organizational patterns of music and their interaction, the ability to employ this understanding in aural, verbal, and visual analyses, and the ability to take aural dictation. 

 (b) Musical forms, processes, and structures to use this knowledge and skill in compositional, performance, analytical, scholarly, and pedagogical applications according to the requisites of their specializations. 

 (c) Placing music in historical, cultural, and stylistic contexts. 

 (5) Standard 3: Composition/Improvisation. Candidates must demonstrate proficiency in the ability to create original or derivative music. 

 (6) Standard 4: History and Repertory. Candidates must acquire basic knowledge of music history and repertories through the present time, including study and experience of musical language and achievement in addition to that of the primary culture encompassing the area of specialization 

 (7) Standard 5: Synthesis. Students must be able to work on musical problems by combining, as appropriate to the issue, their capabilities in performance; aural, verbal, and visual analysis; composition/improvisation; and history and repertory. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.147 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 14-2022, amend filed 10/20/2022, effective 11/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
