



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 AMATEUR ATHLETIC ORGANIZATIONS 
 230-150-0070 
 Medical Requirements 
 
 (1) An amateur unarmed combat sports competitor is not permitted to participate without the following unless otherwise approved by the Administrator: 

 (a) Laboratory results must have been drawn within six (6) months of the date of scheduled competition. 

 (A) Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) 4th Generation or ½ serum AB, EIA with confirmation. 

 (B) Hepatitis B (HBsAg) 

 (C) Hepatitis C antibody 

 (b) Comprehensive physical examination within one year of scheduled competition from licensed medical personnel, affirming that the amateur unarmed combat sports competitor: 

 (A) Has undergone a thorough medical examination; and 

 (B) Is physically fit and qualified to participate in amateur unarmed combat sports; 

 (C) Pre-bout physicals required under section 10 of the rule do not satisfy this requirement.  

 (c) Annual Eye Exam by optometrist or ophthalmologist; 

 (d) For female amateur unarmed combat sports competitors: 

 (A) Clinical laboratory results from a serum or urine pregnancy test administered not more than fourteen (14) days prior to the scheduled event, affirming the negative test results for pregnancy; or 

 (B) A negative over-the-counter pregnancy test taken by the competitor, and verified by the AAO assigned physician on-site at the event; or        

 (C) A female competitor may choose not to take a pregnancy test, and instead sign a release form to receive certification to compete in the event. 

 (D) A female competitor who tests positive for pregnancy may not participate in an unarmed combat sports event.  

 (E) A female competitor who fails to submit pregnancy test results or signed release consistent with the requirements of this rule may not participate in an unarmed combat sports event. 

 (2) It is the responsibility of the AAO of an event to ensure that no amateur unarmed combat sports competitor participates in an event without the information required in subsection (1). 

 (3) This rule does not apply to amateur boxing sanctioned by USA Boxing. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL2017 CH235 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL2017 CH235 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 15-2018, adopt filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
