



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 540 CAREGIVER REGISTRIES 
 333-540-0040 
 Caregiver Registry Records 
 
 (1) A caregiver registry shall:  (a) Keep records for each caregiver placed on the registry including, but not limited to:  (A) Documentation of the required criminal background check;  (B) Documentation of satisfactory references;  (C) Documentation that the caregiver has satisfied basic competency requirements and has the necessary education, skill and training to provide the services proposed to be offered to clients;  (D) Documentation that the caregiver received the caregiver registry's orientation;  (E) Documentation of continuing education;  (F) Documentation of licensure status, if applicable;  (G) A copy of picture identification; and  (H) Upon acceptance to the registry, and every three years afterwards, proof of current driver’s license and auto insurance for any caregiver who provides transportation services for clients.  (b) Maintain a record of clients served by caregivers on the registry, including but not limited to the client's name, contact information, and address.  (c) Maintain client records in a manner that makes them easily retrievable.  (d) Maintain records of any complaints received and documentation of any investigation conducted by the Division or other investigative body, including any action taken and any corrective action required.  (e) Keep caregiver and client records for at least seven years from the date a caregiver is terminated with the caregiver registry.  (2) Documents kept in registry files, including but not limited to background checks, reference checks, verification of basic competency and skill requirements, and training certificates must be legible and dated, signed, or otherwise authenticated by the administrator or the administrator’s designee.  (3) If a caregiver registry changes ownership, all records shall remain in the registry, and it shall be the responsibility of the new owner to protect and maintain these records for at least seven years from the date a caregiver is terminated with the caregiver registry.  (4) Before a registry terminates its business, the registry shall notify the Division where the records will be stored.  (5) Caregiver registry records shall be maintained in a secure manner that protects the confidentiality of the records, and protects the records from destruction or theft. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 443.105 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.105 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 9-2010, f. 6-17-10, cert. ef. 7-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
