



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 AGRICULTURAL WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
 603-095-4045 
 Variances 
 
 (1) Prior to initiation of maintenance activities, a person with a notice on file with the Oregon Department of Agriculture may request a variance from any mandatory condition in the valid notice.  Commencement of channel maintenance activities may not occur until the Department provides a concurrence or denial of the variance request.  A variance may be requested at the same time as filing a notice. 

 (2) Requests for a variance must be submitted on a form provided by the Department of Agriculture and shall include at a minimum the following information: 

 (a) The mandatory condition(s) that are the subject of the request for the variance; 

 (b) The reasons for the request for the variance; and 

 (c) Proposed alternative actions that avoid or reduce the adverse effects to the resource and that protects, maintains, or improves the ecological function of the channel(s). 

 (3) Within five days of receiving a complete variance request form, the Oregon Department of Agriculture shall forward the request for variance to the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife for review and consultation. 

 (4) After consultation with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Department of Agriculture may authorize the variance with additional conditions or modification of conditions. 

 (5) The Oregon Department of Agriculture may decide to deny the variance request. 

 (a) All actions performed under a variance must demonstrate that they avoid or reduce the adverse effects to the resource, and that they protect, maintain, or improve the ecological function of the channel(s). 

 (b) If a request for variance is not granted, work under the notice may commence and proceed only in accordance with mandatory conditions posted in the valid notice on the Department website. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.816 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.816 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 17-2020, adopt filed 09/08/2020, effective 09/08/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
