



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Workers' Compensation Division - Chapter 436 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES PROGRAM 
 436-040-0050 
 Reimbursement 
 
 (1) Reimbursement will be made to the paying agency based on the percentage of reimbursement ordered by the division.  (2) Request for reimbursement shall not be made until the deductible has been met.  (3) Requests for reimbursement are not to include: costs incurred for conditions unrelated to the compensable claim; costs incurred due to inaccurate, untimely, or improper processing; expenses; and settlement amounts not approved by the division, to which the parties agreed after relief was granted.  (4) The division will authorize reimbursement to the paying agency quarterly after receipt and approval of documentation of compensation paid from the paying agency. Documentation shall include, but not be limited to:  (a) Net amounts paid separated into disability benefits by type, and medical benefits for corresponding quarterly time periods;  (b) The current Worker with a Disability Claim Reserve as defined in these rules;  (c) Payment certification statement; and  (d) Any other information deemed necessary by the director.  (5) For purposes of subsection 4(a) of this rule, “net amounts paid” means the total compensation paid less any recoveries, including but not limited to, third party recovery, Retroactive Program reimbursement and Rehabilitation Program reimbursement.  (6) Periodically the division will audit the physical file of the paying agency to validate the amount reimbursed. Reimbursement shall not be approved if, upon such audit, any of the following are found to apply:  (a) Compensation has been paid as a result of untimely, inaccurate, or improper claims processing;  (b) Compensation has been paid for treatment of any condition unrelated to the compensable claim for which Workers with Disabilities Program relief was granted.  (c) The compensability of the accepted claim is questionable and the rationale for acceptance has not been reasonably documented, as required under generally accepted claims management procedures;  (d) The separate payments of compensation have not been documented, as required under generally accepted accounting procedures;  (e) For applications received after January 1, 1990, the subject employer was no longer doing business at the time of application for the Workers with Disabilities Program determination; that the employer was on a retrospective rating plan that was closed prior to the application for the Workers with Disabilities Program determination; or, if not on an open retrospective rating plan, that the last valuation for experience rating modification purposes that could affect the employer was completed prior to the application for the Workers with Disabilities Program determination;  (f) The insurer did not adjust the claims reserve value used in dividend, retrospective evaluation, or any claim valuation for experience rating determination to the percentage level specified in the order of acceptance, allowing for the $1,000 compensation minimum, or did not make the necessary monetary adjustments with the employer; or  (g) The insurance carrier is not able to provide applicable records relating to experience rating, retrospective rating or dividend calculations at the time of audit or within ten working days thereafter. Any reimbursements received on claims, for which the insurer is unable to provide records, will be returned to the division at least until the next annual audit is conducted and all applicable records are reviewed.  (7) The division will authorize reimbursement to insurance companies only for compensation which could reasonably be projected at the first of either to occur;  (a) The last claim evaluation which would affect the employer’s experience rating modification or retrospective rating adjustment, whichever is later; or  (b) For applications received after January 1, 1990, the employer ceases to do business, if that occurs first.  (8) The insurance company shall submit a claim valuation to the division at the first to occur of:  (a) The last claim valuation date which would affect the employer’s experience rating modification or retrospective rating adjustment, whichever is later (usually three and one half years after the inception of the policy period); or  (b) For applications received after January 1, 1990, the employer ceases to do business. The valuation shall include future reserves for the claim at that time. The division will verify the future reserves are reasonable and based on the appropriate valuation date. If the division determines the submitted claim valuation is unreasonable or based on inappropriate information, the division may establish the claim valuation or adjust the claim valuation period. The claim valuation, when approved by the division, shall be the maximum Worker with a Disability Claim Reserve used as the basis for reimbursement for the claim.  (9) When a claim is settled by a Compromise and Release or a Disputed Claims Settlement, the department shall review and modify the final reserve to reflect resulting changes in liability. The paying agent shall be notified of any change in the final reserve. A director review of this action will be considered only when paid claim costs have exceeded the established reserve.  (10) In the event that a denied claim is found compensable by a hearing referee, the Workers’ Compensation Board, or the Court of Appeals, and that decision is reversed by a higher level of appeal, the paying agency shall receive reimbursement for claim payments required to be made while the claim was in accepted status. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.726 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.628, §286, ch. 70 & OL 2007 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 10-2007, f. 11-1-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 WCD 22-1990, f. 11-29-90, cert. ef. 12-26-90 
WCD 6-1990(Temp), f. 6-18-90, cert. ef. 7-1-90 
WCD 3-1989, f. 12-22-89, cert. ef. 1-1-90 
WCD 6-1987, f. 12-18-87, cert. ef. 1-1-88 
WCD 6-1983, f. 12-20-83, cert. ef. 1-1-84, Renumbered from 436-064-0315 
WCD 1-1982, f. 1-20-82, cert. ef. 2-1-82 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
