



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 ACCOUNTING AND INVESTMENTS (ORS CHAPTER 733); REHABILITATION AND LIQUIDATION OF INSURERS (ORS CHAPTER 734) 
 836-031-0240 
 Premium Reserves 
 
 (1) The following provisions apply to premium reserves generally:  (a) An insurer must maintain unearned premium reserves for all contracts with respect to the period of coverage beyond the date of valuation for which premiums, other than premiums paid in advance, have been paid;  (b) If premiums due and unpaid are carried as an asset, an insurer must treat such premiums as premiums in force, subject to unearned premium reserve determination for which premiums, other than premiums paid in advance, have been paid. An insurer must carry the value of unpaid commissions, premium taxes and the cost of collection associated with due and unpaid premiums as an offsetting liability;  (c) The gross premiums paid in advance for a period of coverage commencing after the next premium due date that follows the date of valuation may be appropriately discounted to the valuation date and shall be held either as a separate liability or as an addition to the unearned premium reserve that would otherwise be required as a minimum.  (2) The following are minimum standards for unearned premium reserves:  (a) The minimum unearned premium reserve with respect to any contract is the pro rata unearned modal premium that applies to the premium period beyond the valuation date. Such premium must be determined on the basis of:  (A) The valuation net modal premium on the contract reserve basis applying to the contract; or  (B) The gross modal premium for the contract if no contract reserve applies.  (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the sum of the unearned premium and contract reserves for all contracts of the insurer subject to contract reserve requirements shall not be less than the gross modal unearned premium reserve on all such contracts as of the date of valuation. Such sum shall never be less than the expected claims for the period beyond the valuation date represented by such unearned premium reserve, to the extent not provided for elsewhere.  (3) An insurer may employ suitable approximations and estimates, including but not limited to groupings, averages and aggregate estimation in computing premium reserves. Such approximations or estimates must be tested periodically to determine their continuing adequacy and reliability. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 733.080 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 733.080 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 7-1995, f. & cert. ef. 11-15-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
