



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 600 WATER CONSERVATION, REUSE AND STORAGE GRANT PROGRAM 
 690-600-0020 
 Application Requirements 
 
 (1) Funding is limited to a Grantee as defined in 690-600-0010(5).  (2) Applications for funding may not exceed $500,000 per project.  (3) For a project planning study to be considered for review and funding, an applicant must submit a complete application as determined by the Department and the project planning study must be eligible for funding under 690-600-0050.  (4) All applicants for funding shall supply the following information in their application:  (a) Names, mailing addresses, email addresses (if available), and fax and telephone numbers of the applicant contact person(s) and the fiscal officer(s);  (b) Partner(s) name and address, if applicable;  (c) Information required by the Department regarding the water conservation, reuse or storage project associated with the project planning study.  (d) For a project planning study associated with an above ground storage project, information as to whether and to what extent the project includes provisions for using stored water to augment in-stream flows to conserve, maintain and enhance aquatic life, fish life or other ecological values.  (e) For a project planning study that is not associated with an above ground storage project, information as to whether the project has been identified by the Department in a statewide water assessment and inventory.  (f) For a project planning study that is associated with a proposed storage project that would impound surface water on a perennial stream, divert water from a stream that supports sensitive, threatened or endangered fish or divert more than 500 acre-feet of surface water annually, the proposed project planning study must contain the following elements:  (A) Analyses of by-pass, optimum peak, flushing and other ecological flows of the affected stream and the impact of the storage project on those flows;  (B) Comparative analyses of alternative means of supplying water, including but not limited to the costs and benefits of conservation and efficiency alternatives and the extent to which long-term water supply needs may be met using those alternatives;  (C) Analyses of environmental harm or impacts from the proposed storage project  (D) Evaluation of the need for and feasibility of using stored water to augment in-stream flows to conserve, maintain and enhance aquatic life, fish life and any other ecological values, and  (E) For a proposed storage project that is for municipal use, analysis of local and regional water demand and the proposed storage project’s relationship to existing and planned water supply projects.  (g) Estimated line item budget for the project planning study including the sources and amounts of match funding and the amount of funding requested from the Department. Administrative costs may not exceed 10% of the total funding requested from the Department.  (h) A project planning study schedule including identification of specific project planning study elements for which funding will be used and the project planning study beginning and completion date; and  (i) Any other information requested by the Department that is necessary to evaluate the application for funding based on evaluation criteria developed by the Department.  (5) An applicant must demonstrate that at least 50% match is being sought, on a form provided by the Department, based on the total funding request. Match may include:  (a) Associated and documented expenditures for the project planning study from non-Program sources incurred prior to program funding and approved by the Department for match purposes.  (b) Secured funding commitments from other sources;  (c) Pending commitments of funding from other sources. In such instances, Department funding will not be released prior to secured commitment of the funds from other sources. Pending commitments of the funding must be secured within 12 months from the date of the award; or  (d) The value of in-kind labor, equipment rental and materials essential to the project planning study.  (6) An application must be submitted on a form provided by the Department. An explanation must accompany the application if any of the information required in section (4) of this rule cannot be provided. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2008 OL Ch. 13 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-2008, f. 6-4-08, cert. ef. 6-6-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
