



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 23 PSYCHIATRIC EMERGENCY SERVICES (PES) 
 309-023-0130 
 Services 
 
 (1) Psychiatric emergency services may include up to 23 hours of triage and assessment, observation and supervision, crisis stabilization, crisis intervention, crisis counseling, case management, medication management, safety planning, lethal means counseling, and mobilization of peer and family support and community resources.  (2) The facility shall deliver services that are individualized, recovery-oriented, trauma informed, developmentally and medically appropriate and consistent with best practices for suicide risk assessment, intervention and treatment.  (3) Staff must promptly conduct an assessment to determine the precipitating factors that lead to the crisis and a screening assessment which shall include a best practice evaluation of risk of harm to self or others, a mental status exam, need for immediate behavioral health assessment, including depression screening, need for emergency intervention, a medical screening exam, and collection of collateral information.  (4) Staff shall develop a crisis stabilization plan that provides the most effective treatment based on the patient’s provisional psychiatric condition and, to the maximum extent possible, incorporates patient or family preferences. For purposes of these rules, the term families includes families of choice. The facility shall offer peer delivered services to the patient and family and, if accepted, shall be incorporated in care coordination and crisis stabilization plan.  (5) The facility shall provide access to existing community based rehabilitation, reasonable access to peer and family support and social services that may be used to help the patient transition to the community and provide documentation of other needed interventions including crisis counseling and family counseling.  (6) Transition of care coordination shall include to the extent possible and when the patient agrees:  (a) A face-to-face meeting with a community provider and the patient, and if possible, family, and hospital staff prior to discharge.  (b) A face-to-face meeting may be accomplished via technology that provides secure, unrecorded, audio video in a private setting with a community provider and the patient, and if possible, family and hospital staff.  (7) Transition of care coordination shall include:  (a) A transitional team at the PES facility to support the patient, serve as a bridge between the hospital and a community provider and to the extent possible ensure that the patient connects with a community provider, and peer and family support services if desired by the patient and their family.  (b) For patients discharged to their home or other living environment, a member of the transition team shall determine through interviews with the patient, family, peer or family support specialists or lay caregiver the safety of that environment, potential mitigating factors to reduce risk, provide discharge instructions, including a safety plan, and lethal means counseling to the patient, peer and family support specialist and family.  (8) Facilities shall ensure that the rights of individuals are provided pursuant to OAR 309-032-0341. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 413.042 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 29-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-29-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 15-2016(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-6-16 thru 4-3-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
