



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS 
 309-014-0330 
 Central Oregon Health Council 
 
 (1) The council may not convene until the governing body of each county adopts a resolution signifying the body’s intention to do so.  (2) Subsequent to the formation of the council, a county that is adjacent to Crook, Deschutes or Jefferson County may join the council if:  (a) The governing body of the county seeking to join the council adopts a resolution signifying the body’s intention to include a portion of that county in the region served by the council;  (b) The portion of the county to be included in the region is part of a natural health care referral pattern with the other counties on the council; and  (c) The authority and the council approve.  (3) The COHC shall consist of no more than 11 members, including:  (a) A formative council consisting of:  (A) One member each from the governing bodies of Crook, Deschutes and Jefferson Counties, appointed by each body;  (B) The chief executive officer, or a designee of the chief executive officer, of the health care system serving the region; and  (C) The chief executive officer, or a designee of the chief executive officer, of the Medicaid contractor serving the region; and  (b) At least three members appointed by the formative council established under paragraph (3)(a)(A) of this rule. Members appointed under this section shall be representatives of:  (A) Consumers of physical and behavioral health services;  (B) Health care professionals;  (C) School districts or educational service districts;  (D) The business community; or  (E) A member from the governing body of each county that joins the council defined in (3)(a)(A) of this rule.  (4) The term of office of the members of the council is four years.  (5) A majority of the members of the council constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business.  (6) The council shall elect a member of the council to serve as the chairperson.  (7) If there is a vacancy for any cause, the appointing authority shall make an appointment to the vacated position to become effective immediately.  (8) The council may enter into necessary contracts, apply for and receive grants, hold and dispose of property and take other actions necessary to carry out the activities, services and responsibilities assumed by the council.  (9) The council may adopt rules necessary for the operation of the council. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2011 OL Ch. 418 & Sec. 13-19 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 6-2011(Temp), f. 8-26-11, cert. ef. 9-1-11 thru 2-28-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
