



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 SCHOOL GOVERNANCE AND STUDENT CONDUCT 
 581-021-0200 
 Standard Education for Oregon Students
 
 
 A Standard Education for Oregon Students is comprised of: 

 (1) Common Curriculum Goals. The Common Curriculum Goals consist of: 

 (a) Essential Learning Skills. The Essential Learning Skills are those skills essential to learning and necessary for understanding in the subject matter areas. The skills are: Reading, writing, speaking, listening, mathematics, reasoning and study skills; 

 (b) Common Knowledge and Skills. The Common Knowledge and Skills consists of facts, concepts, principles, rules, procedures and methods of inquiry associated with the following subject matter areas: 

 (A) Language Arts; 

 (B) Mathematics; 

 (C) Health Education; 

 (D) Science Education; 

 (E) Physical Education; 

 (F) Social Science; 

 (G) Music; 

 (H) Art; 

 (I) Personal Finance; 

 (J) Second Language and Culture (proposed); 

 (K) Career Education. 

 (2) Professional — Technical Education. Occupational preparation which blends the interests and aptitudes of students with the skills and experience needed to become employed, sustain economic independence and enter advanced education and training. 

 (3) Education Programs Mandated by State or Federal Law and Selected Other State Requirements Presently Constituted: 

 (a) The approximately 30 programs mandated by state statutes are in two categories, instruction and support. They include a diverse range of requirements such as protection of trees and shrubs, commemorating women in history, providing free textbooks, programs for talented and gifted students, transportation and properly maintained buildings and grounds; 

 (b) The three federally mandated programs are: The Asbestos Hazard Emergency Act of 1986, as amended; The Individuals With Disabilities Act, PL 101-476, that all children with disabilities have an opportunity for a free appropriate public education; The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act, PL 93-380, as amended by PL 93-568, that imposes certain requirements and restrictions on the release of student records; 

 (c) The following state requirements contained in OAR chapter 581, division 022: 

 (A) Goals for Elementary and Secondary Education; 

 (B) Graduation Requirements; 

 (C) Education of Talented and Gifted; 

 (D) Required Days of Instruction; 

 (E) Required Instructional Time; 

 (F) Kindergarten Programs; 

 (G) Standardization; 

 (H) Alternative Education Program; 

 (I) Special Education Program; 

 (J) Library Media Skills Instruction. 

 (4) Character Education. Character Education is the process of helping students develop and practice the core ethical values that our diverse society shares and holds important. These values include, but are not limited to, respect, responsibility, caring, trustworthiness, justice and fairness, and civic virtue and citizenship. 

 (5) Student Activities under the auspices of the secondary schools, which include the following: 

 (a) Student Government; 

 (b) Preparation of School Publications; e.g., newspaper, yearbook, literary magazine; 

 (c) Drama; 

 (d) Performing Music/Dance Groups; 

 (e) Interscholastic Athletics; 

 (f) Intramurals; 

 (g) Rally Squad/Dance Team/Flag Line; 

 (h) Competitive Speech and Debate; 

 (i) Instruction program-related clubs or organizations; e.g., Distributive Education Club of America, Future Business Leaders of America, Future Farmers of America, Home Economics Related Occupations, Vocational Industrial Clubs of America. 

 (6) International Understanding. International Understanding represents the knowledge, skills and attitudes needed to live effectively in a world possessing limited natural resources and characterized by ethnic diversity, cultural pluralism and an increased interdependence. Such knowledge, skills and attitudes are developed through broad exposure to international content in all subject areas and through learning a second language. 

 (7) Support Services Necessary to Provide a Standard Education for Oregon Students: 

 (a) Student Services: 

 (A) Improving attendance; 

 (B) Counseling; 

 (C) Providing health services; 

 (D) Treating students with speech and hearing disabilities; 

 (E) Providing library, audio/video, television and computer learning. 

 (b) Staff Services: 

 (A) Measuring student achievement; 

 (B) Developing curriculum and training staff. 

 (c) Administrative Services: 

 (A) Administering the district and individual schools; 

 (B) Planning, research, processing of data. 

 (d) Business Services: 

 (A) Budgeting, payroll, inventory, internal audit; 

 (B) Buying and storing of supplies; 

 (C) Printing. 

 (e) Transportation Services: 

 (A) Providing home-to-school transportation for both students with and students without disabilities; 

 (B) Transporting students to co-curricular activities. 

 (f) Food Services: Offering students nutritional lunches and breakfasts; 

 (g) Operation and Maintenance Services: Keeping buildings, equipment and grounds safe, working and in good condition. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.400, ORS 326.410 & ORS 336.067 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 336.067 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 29-2026, minor correction filed 05/29/2026, effective 05/29/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 15-2022, amend filed 03/24/2022, effective 03/24/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 26-2008, f. 10-23-08, cert. ef. 10-24-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 7-1993, f. & cert. ef. 2-11-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 3-1991, f. & cert. ef. 2-28-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
