



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 THROUGH THE FENCE PILOT PROGRAM 
 738-014-0050 
 Standards and Guidelines for Through the Fence Operations 
 
 The airport sponsor of a pilot site shall create a “Through the Fence Operations” operating plan for their airport, to accompany the Airport Layout Plan. The “Through the Fence Operations” operating plan shall include the following:  (1) Identify current operating costs and revenues for the pilot site airport. Describe how the through the fence operations will provide financial support to the pilot sites in compliance with FAA regulations.  (2) Require each through the fence operation to submit a facility site plan for its own property to the airport sponsor. The through the fence operation, in cooperation with the airport sponsor, then may proceed to seek any necessary land use approval from the appropriate local government. Any such approval must be made in compliance with statewide land use planning requirements. If the facility site plan is approved by the appropriate local government in compliance with applicable statewide land use planning requirements, the facility site plan shall be incorporated into the local government’s airport plan and airport boundary.  (3) Require that each through the fence facility only be permitted to operate through a written contract with the airport sponsor that includes:  (a) Financial charges, including fuel flowage fees if applicable, that provide equitable and uniform treatment of all airport tenants and users at pilot sites.  (b) An approved development plan for the through the fence property.  (c) Aviation safety rules for the airport, and rules that facilitate the orderly management of the pilot sites.  (d) Identify the airport’s role in Oregon’s emergency response system, and the through the fence facility’s role (if any) in assisting in maintaining these characteristics;  (e) Identify investments in pilot sites and the level of service provided by pilot sites, and the through the fence facility’s role (if any) in assisting in maintaining these characteristics.  (f) Facilitate and foster good relations with the communities surrounding the pilot sites, including, for example, adhering to established airport noise abatement procedures, and adjusting operations as needed to cooperate with public community events which may occur at the airport from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035, 836.642 & sec. 4, ch. 820 & OL 2005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 836.640, 836.642 & ch. 820 & OL 2005 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 3-2006, f. 6-27-06, cert. ef. 7-1-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
