



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 82 SMALL GENERATOR INTERCONNECTION RULES 
 860-082-0075 
 Temporary Disconnection 
 
 (1) Under emergency conditions, a public utility or an interconnection customer may suspend interconnection service and temporarily disconnect a small generator facility from the public utility’s transmission or distribution system at any time and for as long as reasonably necessary.  (a) A public utility must notify an interconnection customer immediately after becoming aware of an emergency condition that may reasonably be expected to affect a small generator facility’s operation. To the extent possible, the notice must describe the emergency condition, the extent of the damage or deficiency, the expected effect on the small generator facility, the anticipated duration of the condition, and the necessary corrective action.  (b) An interconnection customer must notify the public utility immediately after becoming aware of an emergency condition that may reasonably be expected to affect the public utility’s transmission or distribution system. To the extent possible, the notice must describe the emergency condition, the extent of the damage or deficiency, the expected effect on the public utility’s transmission or distribution system, the anticipated duration of the condition, and the necessary corrective action.  (2) A public utility or an interconnection customer may suspend interconnection service and temporarily disconnect a small generator facility to perform routine maintenance, construction, or repairs. A public utility or an interconnection customer must provide written notice five business days before suspending interconnection service or temporarily disconnecting the small generator facility. A public utility and an interconnection customer must use reasonable efforts to coordinate interruptions caused by routine maintenance, construction, or repairs.  (3) A public utility must use reasonable efforts to provide written notice to an interconnection customer affected by a forced outage of the public utility’s transmission or distribution system at least five business days before the forced outage. If prior written notice is not given, then the public utility must provide the interconnection customer written documentation explaining the circumstances of the disconnection within five business days after the forced outage.  (4) A public utility may disconnect a small generator facility if the public utility determines that operation of the small generator facility will likely cause disruption or deterioration of service to other customers served by the public utility’s transmission or distribution system, or if the public utility determines that operation of the small generator facility could cause damage to the public utility’s transmission or distribution system.  (a) The public utility must provide written notice to the interconnection customer of the disconnection at least five business days before the disconnection. If the condition requiring disconnection can be remedied, then the public utility must describe the remedial action necessary.  (b) If requested by the interconnection customer, the public utility must provide documentation supporting the public utility’s decision to disconnect.  (c) The public utility may disconnect the small generator facility if the interconnection customer fails to perform the remedial action identified in the notice of disconnection within a reasonable time, but no less than five business days after the interconnection customer received the notice of disconnection.  (5) A public utility may temporarily disconnect a small generator facility if an interconnection customer makes any change to the facility, other than a minor equipment modification, without the public utility’s prior written authorization. The public utility may disconnect the small generator facility for the time necessary for the public utility to evaluate the affect of the change to the small generator facility on the public utility’s transmission or distribution system.  (6) A public utility has the right to inspect an interconnection customer’s small generator facility at reasonable hours and with reasonable prior written notice to the interconnection customer. If the public utility discovers that the small generator facility is not in compliance with the requirements of the small generator interconnection rules, then the public utility may require the interconnection customer to disconnect the small generator facility until compliance is achieved. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 756 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & 756.060 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 10-2009, f. & cert. ef. 8-26-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
