



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Corporation Division - Chapter 160 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 BUSINESS REGISTRY SECTION 
 160-010-0710 
 License Directory Information 
 
 (1) Scope.  (a) All state and local agencies that issue licenses, permits and registrations for which fees and fee-related regulations are imposed on small businesses must report the information designated in this section to the Secretary of State.  (b) All state and local agencies that issue licenses, permits and registrations for which fees and fee-related regulations are imposed on any business may report the information designated in this section to the Secretary of State.  (c) Additional relevant information may also be reported.  (2) Directory information will be formatted and organized in a database maintained by the Secretary of State. Group Administrators may select some information from choices presented by the Oregon License Directory application.  (3) Required Information. The information for licenses, permits and registrations shall include:  (a) “Name.” The name of the license, permit or registration.  (b) “Start Date.” The date this license, permit or registration will first be seen by the public in the license directory.  (c) “License Category.” The type of field the license, permit or registration applies to.  (d) “Group.” The group or agency associated with this license, permit or registration.  (e) “Description of license.” This is a description of the duties/activities that the license covers and often includes definitions.  (f) “Duration.” The length of time the license, permit or registration will be effective. The duration of renewals is also required.  (g) “Fee.” The dollar amount of fees normally associated with the license, permit or registration, including application fee, exam fee, et cetera.  (A) Non-normative fees, such as late fee or expedite fee are not included.  (B) Renewal fees, duplicate fees, and other fees occurring after the initial issuance of the license.  (h) “Processing Time.” The average time to process and issue the license, permit or registration on July 1st.  (i) “License Count.” The number of active licenses, permits or registrations as of July 1st.  (j) ”Bonding Requirements.” The conditions where a bond may be required and the amount of the bond.  (k) “Insurance Requirements.” The amount and type of insurance required for the license, permit or registration.  (4) The information for licenses, permits and registrations may include:  (a) “Fee exemption.” Conditions where all or part of the license fee may be waived.  (b) “Examination Information.” Information about testing or examination requirements.  (c) “Continuing Education Requirements.” Additional education required to renew the license.  (d) “Prerequisites.” Additional requirements, such as education or work experience, in order to get the license, permit or registration.  (e) “Required Documentation.” Information about documentation necessary to get the license, permit or registration.  (f) “Application Form Name.” The name of the application form for this license, permit or registration.  (g) “License Renewal Information.” Information about requirements for renewal, such as timing of notices, requirements for inspections, and other information not covered elsewhere. The renewal duration and continuing education requirements may also be noted.  (h) “Duplicate License.” The information required to get a duplicate license, permit or registration.  (i) “Statutes, Administrative Rules or Ordinances.” Any applicable law relating to the issuance of the license, permit or registration.  (j) Other relevant information may be provided. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2013 OL Ch. 580 & Sec. 1(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2013 OL Ch. 580 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 1-3-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CORP 3-2013, f. 12-20-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
