



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 FOOD SAFETY DIVISION — BAKERIES 
 603-021-0715 
 Construction and Repair of Equipment 
 
 (1) All equipment, containers, and utensils used in the handling, processing, compounding, mixing, storage, or transporting of beverages or beverage ingredients shall be smooth, impervious, corrosion resistant, nontoxic, and in good repair and shall be constructed to permit adequate sanitation. Effective protection from contamination shall be maintained. Product-contact surfaces shall be self-draining. Equipment shall be free of sharp internal corners. Welded or soldered areas shall be smooth and similar to the parent metal. All joints shall be flush. Piping shall be of sanitary design and installation. All temperature-control equipment and control devices used on bottle washers shall be accurate and adequately maintained. The bottle washer shall be equipped with an indicating thermometer to record the temperature of the caustic wash solution. It shall be placed so as to be conveniently visible to the operator at all times.  (2) If the washing, filling, and crowning devices are not integral parts of one machine, but are performed by separate units of equipment, they shall be arranged to exclude manual contact with the necks or tops of the bottles between filling and crowning.  (3) Mixing and storage tanks, pipelines, filters, and other apparatus employed in the preparation and distribution of sirups shall be of sanitary construction and made of stainless steel or similar materials resistant to the action of sirup ingredients. All apparatus employed in sirup-making shall be free from recesses and so constructed that all parts may be easily sanitized. All permanent in place sirup lines shall be sloped to drain. All sirup tanks shall be self-draining and provided with suitable covers. Mixing shall be by mechanical means performed so as to prevent contamination of the sirup.  (4) Carbonated water shall not be conveyed in pipelines of galvanized iron, lead, zinc, copper, or other deleterious materials. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & 635.045 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 635.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 851(23-67), f. & ef. 9-13-67 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
