



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 88 RULES GOVERNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RESTRICTIONS ON THE PUBLIC RECREATIONAL USE OF STATE-OWNED LAND 
 141-088-0008 
 Restrictions or Closures Imposed by the Director to Facilitate or Protect Removal or Remedial Actions 
 
 (1) The Director may impose restrictions on, or close state-owned land if the Director determines that the restriction or closure is necessary to facilitate or protect any removal or remedial action undertaken by or pursuant to an order issued by DEQ or EPA.  (2) Restrictions or closures imposed by the Director will be as limited in area, duration and scope as necessary to address the identified need for the restriction or closure.  (3) Before imposing a restriction or closure, the Department will provide a 30- calendar-day public comment period on the proposed restriction or closure. An affected party may request a public meeting with agency staff to be held during this 30-day period to discuss the proposed action.  (4) Notice of this public comment period and the opportunity to request a public meeting with agency staff will be:  (a) Sent to affected local, state and federal government agencies and tribal governments, as well as other interested persons that have indicated that they want to be notified of such actions; and  (b) Posted:  (A) One time in the Public Notices Section of The Oregonian and, if the Director deems appropriate, in another newspaper serving the general area one week before the start of the public comment period; and  (B) On the Department’s website upon imposition of the restrictions or closure at http://www.oregon.gov/DSL  (5) A restriction or closure imposed by the Director will not take effect until a date to be determined by the Director which must be at least four weeks following posting of a notice of the restriction or closure.  (6) If the Director imposes a restriction or closure the Department will:  (a) Notify affected local, state and federal government agencies and tribal governments, as well as other interested persons that have indicated that they want to be notified of such actions; and  (b) Post a notice of such proposed public use restrictions or closure at least four weeks before the time that the restriction or closure is to take effect:  (A) One time in the Public Notices Section of The Oregonian and, if the Director deems appropriate, in another newspaper serving the general area before the start of the restrictions or closure is to take effect; and  (B) On the Department’s website at http://www.oregon.gov/DSL 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273 & 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2015, f. 5-6-15, cert. ef. 6-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 5-2009, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
