



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 71 INSURANCE LICENSING 
 836-071-0280 
 Permitted and Prohibited Activities of Insurance Personnel Exempt from Insurance Producer License Requirement 
 
 For purposes of ORS 744.056(2)(a):  (1) An unlicensed person whose activities are executive, administrative, managerial, clerical or a combination of these and is employed by an insurance producer may engage in any activity described in this section, subject to review by the insurance producer or an insurance producer employed by the insurance producer if review is required under this section, if the unlicensed person engages in the activity under the supervision of the insurance producer and on the premises of the insurance producer’s business. The unlicensed person may:  (a) Disclose rates to the insurance-buying public, but only if the rates are reviewed by the insurance producer prior to submission to the insurer;  (b) Fill out an application for insurance if the application is reviewed by the insurance producer prior to submission to the insurer;  (c) Accept or receive an insurance premium;  (d) Provide information to current policyholders addressing existing policy terms;  (e) Take requests for changes on in-force policies;  (f) Obtain information needed from insureds;  (g) Receive claim information directly from insureds and claimants;  (h) Engage in telephone marketing or making appointments, but only to the extent that the person may obtain policy expiration dates; and  (i) Transmit insurance policies to insureds.  (2) An unlicensed person whose activities are executive, administrative, managerial, clerical or a combination of these and is employed by an insurer may engage in any activity described in this section. The unlicensed person may:  (a) Disclose rates to the insurance-buying public;  (b) Fill out an application for insurance;  (c) Accept or receive an insurance premium;  (d) Provide information to current policyholders addressing existing policy terms;  (e) Take requests for changes on in-force policies;  (f) Obtain information needed from insureds;  (g) Receive claim information directly from insureds and claimants;  (h) Engage in telephone marketing or making appointments, but only to the extent that the person may obtain policy expiration dates;  (i) Transmit insurance policies to insureds; and  (j) Analyze, interpret and resolve policy coverage questions regarding a claim.  (3) An unlicensed person whose activities are executive, administrative, managerial, clerical or a combination of these and is employed by an insurance producer may engage in the following activities only if they are indirectly related to the sale, solicitation or negotiation of insurance:  (a) Binding coverage; or  (b) Interpreting policy coverages. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 744.056 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 744.056 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 8-2005, f. 5-18-05, cert. ef. 8-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 9-2002, f. & cert. ef. 3-18-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 6-1994, f. & cert. ef. 5-20-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 3-1990, f. & cert. ef. 1-19-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
