



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 645 DEMONSTRATION OF NEED FOR REHABILITATION SERVICES 
 333-645-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Rehabilitation Services” are medical and other services designed for the primary purpose of restoring disabled persons to the fullest degree of physical, psychological, social and vocational competency in an integrated program.  (2)(a) “Comprehensive Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (CIRFs)” are hospital-based inpatient departments which are medically directed, supervised and coordinated to deliver rehabilitation services to patients with simple or multiple severe disabilities. A facility of this scope must include, but is not limited to, the following rehabilitation interdisciplinary services:  (A) Physiatrist or other medical doctor with two years of experience in a comprehensive inpatient rehabilitation program for physical disabilities;  (B) Intensive skilled rehabilitation nursing care;  (C) Social worker/discharge planner;  (D) Physical therapy;  (E) Occupational therapy;  (F) Speech/language pathology (as prescribed);  (G) Psychology.  (b) Dependent upon the needs of those served and stated goals in the application, a CIRF program shall provide or make formal arrangements for the following services:  (A) Audiology;  (B) Driver education;  (C) Orthotics;  (D) Prosthetics;  (E) Rehabilitation engineering;  (F) Respiratory therapy;  (G) Therapeutic recreation;  (H) Vocational rehabilitation.  (3) “Comprehensive Inpatient Rehabilitation” is a program of coordinated and integrated services which include evaluation and treatment, and emphasizes education and training of those served and their families.  (4) An “Interdisciplinary Team” includes a physician, rehabilitation nurse, social worker or psychologist, and those therapists involved in the patient’s care.  (5) For the purposes of this division, “Rehabilitation Facility” or “Rehabilitation Unit” refers to any CIRF. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 431.120(6) & 442.315 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 431.120(6) & 442.315 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 13-1994, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
