



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 314 INCOME TAXATION GENERALLY  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 150-314-0455 
 Modified Factors for Publishing
 
 
 (1) The following special rules are established with respect to the apportionment of income derived from the publishing, sale, licensing, or other distribution of books, newspapers, magazines, periodicals, trade journals, or other printed material. The rule adopts a model regulation recommended by the Multistate Tax Commission to promote uniform treatment of these items by the states. 

 (2) In General. Except as specifically modified by this rule, when a person in the business of publishing, selling, licensing, or distributing newspapers, magazines, periodicals, trade journals, or other printed material has income from sources both within and without this state, the amount of apportionable income from sources within this state from such business activity will be determined pursuant to ORS 314.650 through 314.665 and the rules thereunder. 

 (3) Definitions. The following definitions are applicable to the terms contained in this rule. 

 (a) "Outer-jurisdictional property" means certain types of tangible personal property, such as orbiting satellites, undersea transmission cables and the like, that are owned or rented by the taxpayer and used in the business of publishing, licensing, selling, or otherwise distributing printed material, but that are not physically located in any particular state. 

 (b) "Print or printed material" includes, without limitation, the physical embodiment or printed version of any thought or expression including, without limitation, a play, story, article, column, or other literary, commercial, educational, artistic, or other written or printed work. The determination of whether an item is or consists of print or printed material will be made without regard to its content. Printed material may take the form of a book, newspaper, magazine, periodical, trade journal, or any other form of printed matter and may be contained on any medium or property. 

 (c) "Purchaser" and "subscriber" mean the individual, residence, business, or other outlet that is the ultimate or final recipient of the print or printed material. Neither of such terms will mean or include a wholesaler or other distributor of print or printed material. 

 (d) "Terrestrial facility" will include any telephone line, cable, fiber optic, microwave, earth station, satellite dish, antennae, or other relay system or device that is used to receive, transmit, relay, or carry any data, voice, image or other information that is transmitted from or by any outer-jurisdictional property to the ultimate recipient thereof. 

 (4) Apportionment of Apportionable Income. 

 (a) The Property Factor. 

 (A) Property Factor Denominator. All real and tangible personal property, including outer-jurisdictional property, whether owned or rented, that is used in the business will be included in the denominator of the property factor. 

 (B) Property Factor Numerator. 

 (i) All real and tangible personal property owned or rented by the taxpayer and used in this state during the tax period will be included in the numerator of the property factor. 

 (ii) Outer-jurisdictional property owned or rented by the taxpayer and used in this state during the tax period will be included in the numerator of the property factor in the ratio that the value of such property that is attributable to its use by the taxpayer in business activities in this state bears to the total value of such property that is attributable to its use in the taxpayer's business activities everywhere. The value of outer-jurisdictional property to be attributed to the numerator of the property factor of this state will be determined by the ratio that the number of uplinks and downlinks (sometimes referred to as "half-circuits") that were used during the tax period to transmit from this state and to receive in this state any data, voice, image, or other information bears to the total number of uplinks and downlinks or half-circuits that the taxpayer used for transmissions everywhere. Should information regarding such uplink and downlink or half-circuit usage not be available or should such measurement of activity not be applicable to the type of outer-jurisdictional property used by the taxpayer, the value of such property to be attributed to the numerator of the property factor of this state will be determined by the ratio that the amount of time (in terms of hours and minutes of use) or such other measurement of use of outer-jurisdictional property that was used during the tax period to transmit from this state and to receive in this state any data, voice, image, or other information bears to the total amount of time or other measurement of use that was used for transmissions everywhere. 

 (iii) Outer-jurisdictional property will be considered to have been used by the taxpayer in its business activities within this state when such property, wherever located, has been employed by the taxpayer in any manner in the publishing, sale, licensing or other distribution of books, newspapers, magazines, or other printed material and any data, voice, image, or other information is transmitted to or from this state either through an earth station or terrestrial facility located in this state. 

 Example: One example of the use of outer-jurisdictional property is where the taxpayer either owns its own communications satellite or leases the use of uplinks, downlinks or circuits, or time on a communications satellite for the purpose of sending messages to its newspaper printing facilities or employees in a state. The state or states in which any printing facility that receives the satellite communications is located and the state from which the communications were sent would, under this rule, apportion the cost of the owned or rented satellite to their respective property factors based upon the ratio of the in-state use of said satellite to its total usage everywhere. 

 Assume that ABC Newspaper Co. owns a total of $400,000,000 of property everywhere and that, in addition, it owns and operates a communication satellite for the purpose of sending news articles to its printing plant in this state, as well as for communicating with its printing plants and facilities or news bureaus, employees, and agents located in other states and throughout the world. Also assume that the total value of its real and tangible personal property that was permanently located in this state for the entire income year was valued at $3,000,000. Assume also that the total original cost of the satellite is $100,000,000 for the tax period and that of the 10,000 uplinks and downlinks of satellite transmissions used by the taxpayer during the tax period, 200 or two percent are attributable to its satellite communications received in and sent from this state. 

 Assume further that the company's mobile property that was used partially within this state, consisting of 40 delivery trucks, was determined to have an original cost of $4,000,000 and such mobile property was used in this state for 95 days. 

 The total value of property to be attributed to this state would be determined as follows: 

 Value of property permanently in state: $3,000,000 

 Value of mobile property: 

 95/365 (or .260274) x $4,000,000= $1,041,096 

 Value of leased satellite property used in-state: 

 .02 x $100,000,000= $2,000,000 

 Total value of property attributable to state= $6,041,096 

 Total property factor %: $6,041,096/$500,000,000= 1.2082% 

 (b) The Payroll Factor. The payroll factor will be determined in accordance with OAR 150-314-0415 and the rules thereunder. 

 (c) The Sales Factor: 

 (A) Sales Factor Denominator. The denominator of the sales factor will include the total gross receipts derived by the taxpayer from transactions and activity in the regular course of its trade or business, except receipts that may be excluded under ORS 314.665 and the rules thereunder. 

 (B) Sales Factor Numerator. The numerator of the sales factor will include all gross receipts of the taxpayer from sources within this state, including, but not limited to, the following: 

 (i) Gross receipts derived from the sale of tangible personal property, including printed materials, delivered or shipped to a purchaser or a subscriber in this state. 

 (ii) Except as provided in subsection (4)(c)(B)(iii), gross receipts derived from advertising and the sale, rental or other use of the taxpayer's customer lists or any portion thereof will be attributed to this state as determined by the taxpayer's "circulation factor" during the tax period. The circulation factor will be determined for each individual publication by the taxpayer of printed material containing advertising and will be equal to the ratio that the taxpayer's in-state circulation to purchasers and subscribers of its printed material bears to its total circulation to purchasers and subscribers everywhere. The circulation factor for an individual publication will be determined by reference to the rating statistics as reflected in such sources as Audit Bureau of Circulations or other comparable sources, provided that the source selected is consistently used from year to year for such purpose. If none of the foregoing sources are available, or, if available, none is in form or content sufficient for such purposes, then the circulation factor will be determined from the taxpayer's books and records. 

 (iii) When specific items of advertisements can be shown, upon clear and convincing evidence, to have been distributed solely to a limited regional or local geographic area in which this state is located, the taxpayer may petition, or the department may require, that a portion of such receipts be attributed to the sales factor numerator of this state on the basis of a regional or local geographic area circulation factor and not upon the basis of the circulation factor provided by subparagraph (4)(c)(B)(ii). Such attribution will be based upon the ratio that the taxpayer's circulation to purchasers and subscribers located in this state of the printed material containing such specific items of advertising bears to its total circulation of such printed material to purchasers and subscribers located within such regional or local geographic area. This alternative attribution method will be permitted only upon the condition that such receipts are not double counted or otherwise included in the numerator of any other state. 

 (iv) In the event that the purchaser or subscriber is the United States Government or that the taxpayer is not taxable in a state, the gross receipts from all sources, including the receipts from the sale of printed material, from advertising and from the sale, rental or other use of the taxpayer's customer's lists, or any portion thereof that would have been attributed by the circulation factor to the numerator of the sales factor for such state, will be included in the numerator of the sales factor of this state if the printed material or other property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse, factory, or other place of storage or business in this state. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 & 314.667 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 314.667 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 68-2017, amend filed 12/22/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-314.667-(A), REV 34-2016, f. 8-12-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 Renumbered from 150-314.670-(A), REV 5-2016, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-16 
REV 11-2004, f. 12-29-04, cert. ef. 12-31-04
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
