



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 CONSTRUCTION 
 437-003-0503 
 Training Requirements 
 
 (1) Training Program.  (a) The employer shall provide a training program for each employee who might be exposed to fall hazards. The program shall enable each employee to recognize the hazards of falling and shall train each employee in the procedures to be followed in order to minimize these hazards.  (b) The employer shall assure that each employee has been trained, as necessary, by a competent person qualified in the following areas:  (A) The nature of fall hazards in the work area;  (B) The correct procedures for erecting, maintaining, disassembling, and inspecting the fall protection systems to be used;  (C) The use and operation of guardrail systems, personal fall arrest systems, safety net systems, warning line systems, safety monitoring systems, personal fall restraint systems, positioning devices, and other appropriate protection to be used;  (D) The role of each employee in the safety monitoring system when this system is used;  (E) The limitations on the use of mechanical equipment during the performance of roofing work;  (F) The correct procedures for the handling and storage of equipment and materials and the erection of overhead protection; and  (G) The role of employees in the fall protection work plan;  (H) The standards contained in this subpart.  (2) Certification of training.  (a) The employer shall verify compliance with paragraph (a) of this section by preparing a written certification record. The written certification record shall contain the name or other identity of the employee trained, the date(s) of the training, and the signature of the person who conducted the training or the signature of the employer. If the employer relies on training conducted by another employer or completed prior to the effective date of this section, the certification record shall indicate the date the employer determined the prior training was adequate rather than the date of actual training.  (b) The latest training certification shall be maintained.  (3) Retraining. When the employer has reason to believe that any affected employee who has already been trained does not have the understanding and skill required by paragraph (a) of this section, the employer shall retrain each such employee. Circumstances where retraining is required include, but are not limited to, situations where:  (a) Changes in the workplace render previous training obsolete; or  (b) Changes in the types of fall protection systems or equipment to be used render previous training obsolete; or  (c) Inadequacies in an affected employee’s knowledge or use of fall protection systems or equipment indicate that the employee has not retained the requisite understanding or skill. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 2-2016, f. 3-1-16, cert. ef. 10-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 6-2002, f. & cert. ef. 7-19-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
