



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 650 RECREATION PARKS AND ORGANIZATIONAL CAMPS 
 918-650-0025 
 Coordinating Regulation 
 
 Permit Issuance:  (1) The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data filed by an applicant must be reviewed by the building official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments or agencies to verify compliance with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the building official finds that the work described in the application for a permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed conform to the requirements of these rules and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the fees have been paid, the building official must issue a permit to the applicant. Regulations that also apply to recreation parks and organizational camps are:  (a) Land Use. Land use must comply with the regulations of the unit of government which has planning authority over the proposed construction site;  (b) Flood Zones. Buildings or areas used within a flood zone must be approved by the agency having jurisdiction prior to the issuance of permits;  (c) Water Supply. Water supply systems must comply with regulations under the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority;  (d) Sewage Disposal. Sewage treatment and disposal facilities, including, but not limited to, on-site facilities, solid waste container wash-down facilities, gray water waste disposal systems, pit privies, vaults and chemical toilets, must comply with regulations under the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality;  (e) Solid Waste Disposal. Solid waste disposal must comply with regulations under the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority and such waste must be disposed of in a manner that complies with regulations under the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality;  (f) Eating and Drinking Establishments. Eating and drinking establishments must comply with regulations under the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority;  (g) Ice Machines. Ice machines must comply with regulations under the Oregon State Department of Agriculture;  (h) State Building Code. Buildings and structures must comply with the State Building Code and where applicable to rules adopted thereunder;  (i) Highway, Street and Driveway Permits. Access must comply with the regulations of the city, county or State Highway Division having jurisdiction over access to the public roads;  (j) Fire Protection. Fire protection facilities must comply with the requirements of the appropriate jurisdiction’s fire protection regulations;  (k) Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). Liquefied petroleum gas installations must comply with the regulations of the Oregon State Fire Marshal;  (l) Swimming Pools and Spas. Swimming Pools and spas must comply with regulations under the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority;  (m) Hostels. Hostels must comply with the Oregon State Building Code and with regulations under the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority;  (n) Engineers/Architects Design. When required, park and camp designs must be prepared by a registered design professional.  (2) Recreation Park and Organizational Camp Operating License Approved parks and camps must comply with any operating license requirements established by the Department of Human Services Oregon Health Authority.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 455.020, 455.110 & 455.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 455.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 26-2011, f. 9-30-11, cert. ef. 10-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCA 10-1987, f. & ef. 9-18-87, Renumbered from 814-029-0070 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
