



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 220 ENDORSEMENTS 
 584-220-0025 
 Agricultural Science
 
 
 (1) Purpose: An Agricultural Science endorsement indicates that an educator is qualified to teach prekindergarten through grade 12 assignments in agricultural science as provided by the TSPC course catalogue for Agricultural Science. 

 (2) An educator is not authorized to teach in the endorsed area unless and until the endorsement is officially added to the license, except as provided in as provided in OAR 584-210-0170, Atypical Assignments and OAR 584-210-0160, License on Conditional Assignment. 

 (3) Adding to existing Preliminary Teaching License: An Agricultural Science endorsement may be added to an existing Preliminary Teaching license by demonstrating content knowledge and completing Agricultural Science pedagogy requirements as defined in this rule. To be eligible to add an Agricultural Science endorsement to an existing Preliminary Teaching License, an applicant must: 

 (a) Meet one of the following content knowledge requirements: 

 (A) Provide documentation of a passing score on the Commission-approved subject mastery test for Agricultural Science; or 

 (B) Complete Commission-approved coursework of at least sixty quarter or forty semester hours designed to develop competence in agriculture education, to include: 

 (i) Agribusiness management; 

 (ii) Agricultural mechanics; 

 (iii) Animal science; 

 (iv) Crop sciences; 

 (v) Soil science; 

 (vi) Horticulture; and 

 (vii) Program organization and administration, such as advisory committees, student organizations, and supervision of occupational experience. 

 (C) At least fifty percent (50%) of the Agricultural Science coursework must have been completed within five years prior to the date of application for the endorsement. 

 (b) Meet one of the following Agricultural Science pedagogy requirements: 

 (A) Admission to and Completion of a Commission-approved Agricultural Science preparation program; or 

 (B) Complete an Agricultural Science pedagogy course of at least three quarter or two semester hours acceptable to the Commission. The course must include the word pedagogy or methods in the course title or must be acceptable to the Commission upon evaluation of course syllabi or other evidence; or 

 (C) Complete a supervised practicum in an agricultural science assignment in a public school setting. To verify the practicum, a school district must submit a PEER form and a statement verifying that: 

 (i) The applicant completed at least 60 hours of a supervised practicum in agricultural science courses; 

 (ii) The practicum was supervised by a teacher holding a Professional, Teacher Leader or Legacy Teaching license with an agricultural science endorsement. If the school or school district is unable to provide a teacher with an Agricultural Science endorsement, the school or school district may permit a teacher holding a Professional, Teacher Leader or Legacy Teaching license with an alternate endorsement to supervise the practicum, as approved by the Director of Licensure. The reason for using a supervisor with an alternate endorsement must be noted on the verification statement for the practicum; and 

 (iii) The applicant has obtained the required pedagogy skills to teach agricultural science. 

 
 NOTE: The district must indicate in the statement that the supervisory teacher supports the verification of applicant skill level. 
 

 (D) At the Executive Director’s or Licensure Director’s discretion, agricultural science teaching experience such as teaching in at a post-secondary institution or in a private school setting may qualify to satisfy the practicum experience. In these settings, verification from the employer of satisfactory completion of the supervised teaching experience with at least 60 clock hours of agricultural science instruction is required to qualify as a suitable practicum to add the endorsement. 

 (c) Submit a complete and correct application to obtain the endorsement in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 
 NOTE: Adding the endorsement at the time of licensure renewal does not require an additional application fee. 
 

 (4) Adding to Other Existing Licenses: To be eligible to add an Agricultural Science endorsement to an existing Professional, Teacher Leader or Legacy teaching license, an applicant must: 

 (a) Meet one of the following content knowledge requirements: 

 (A) Provide documentation of a passing score on the Commission-approved subject mastery test for Agricultural Science; or 

 (B) Complete a Commission-approved Agricultural Science coursework of at least sixty quarter or forty semester hours designed to develop competence in agriculture education, to include: 

 (i) Agribusiness management; 

 (ii) Agricultural mechanics; 

 (iii) Animal science; 

 (iv) Crop sciences; 

 (v) Soil science; 

 (vi) Horticulture; and 

 (vii) Program organization and administration, such as advisory committees, student organizations, and supervision of occupational experience. 

 (C) At least fifty percent (50%) of the Agricultural Science coursework must have been completed within five years prior to the date of application for the endorsement. 

 (b) Submit a complete and correct application to obtain the endorsement in the form and manner required by the Commission, including payment of all required fees as provided in OAR 584-200-0050. 

 
 NOTE: Adding the endorsement at the time of licensure renewal does not require an additional application fee. 
 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 - 342.430, 342.455 - 342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2018, amend filed 04/17/2018, effective 04/17/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 12-2015, f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
