



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 250 WATER DISTRIBUTION 
 690-250-0150 
 Management of Stored Water 
 
 (1) Water which has been illegally stored is under the complete control of the watermaster. When water has been illegally stored, the watermaster shall notify the owner of the reservoir containing the illegally stored water of how much was illegally stored and how it is to be released. If necessary, the watermaster may take control of the outlet controls to effect the appropriate release. Such release shall be done in a manner which will make the most effective use of the water for downstream uses. Releases recommended by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Department to prevent damage to fish and wildlife resources may be considered.  (2) Downstream storage right holders can demand water from upstream storage right holders when the actions of upstream storage right holders, junior in priority, have prevented the fulfillment of the downstream, senior storage rights. When storable water is made available to downstream storage interests, any of the storable water which they fail to store shall be deducted from the amount that could be demanded from the upstream rights holders. While downstream senior rights must be protected, they have a duty to store when it is available. The senior right holder’s failure to do so shall not work to the disadvantage of an upstream junior right. When releases from upstream storage are made, the recommendations of the Department of Fish and Wildlife may be considered to prevent damage to fish and wildlife resources.  (3) When physical circumstances permit, and when all interests involved agree, the watermaster shall coordinate the storage and release of waters from multiple reservoirs in a manner which results in the most effective use of the storage space available. However, such action shall not deprive any water right holder of water to which the holder would otherwise have been entitled. The purpose of this section is to allow the watermaster to deviate from the storage program dictated by the storage right holders involved when such deviation would result in mutual benefits to all parties, including the public. Such deviations may include water exchanges between consenting storage interests. Releases recommended by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Department to prevent damage to fish and wildlife resources may be considered.  (4) Use of legally stored water is governed by the water rights, if any, which call on that source of water. Any legally stored water released in excess of the needs of water rights calling on that source of water shall be considered natural flow, unless such release is part of a water exchange under the approval and control of the watermaster. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 24-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
