



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 OUTPATIENT BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES 
 309-019-0270 
 IPS Purpose and Definitions
 
 
 (1) Purpose:  These rules establish the standards and procedures for an Individual Placement and Support (IPS) Employment Services that will be certified by the Division. The IPS program uses an evidence-based model and integrates employment and Vocational Services with clinical mental health and non-vocational support. 

 (2) “Career Profile” means the approved form(s) completed by program staff during the first weeks of meeting with a participant. Information must include at least; 

 (a) Name of individual 

 (b) Address 

 (c) Contact information; this can include email and cell phone number; 

 (d) Names of treatment team points of contact; if the individual is participating in any outpatient therapy; 

 (e) Preference of type of work 

 (f) Any relevant information about current diagnosis and potential limitations in work environments 

 (g) Strengths and skills 

 (h) Historical work experiences 

 (i) Any career path goals 

 (3) “Competitive Integrated Employment” means full-time or part time work that is: 

 (a) At minimum wage or higher rate that is not less than the customary rate paid by the employer for the same or similar work performed by other employees; 

 (b) With eligibility for level of benefits provided to other employees. 

 (c) Paid Internships open to the public. 

 (d) An unpaid internship that is directly tied to higher education or trade school, including work-study opportunities with colleges. 

 (e) Seasonal Employment that is consistent with that industry of work. 

 (f) Self-Employment if: 

 (A)Income is reported to the government; and 

 (B) Taxes must be filed should income generated meet threshold requirements. 

 (g) Temporary Employment from an Oregon-authorized temporary staffing agency as defined in OAR 331-995-0000. 

 (4) “Division Approved Reviewer” means the Division’s contracted entity responsible for conducting IPS Supported Employment fidelity reviews, training, and technical assistance to support new and existing IPS Supported Employment programs statewide. 

 (5) “Face to Face” means that a personal interaction where communication between at least two-person(s) can be had. This will include any interactions through telehealth services where there is secured Health Insurance Portability and Accountability (HIPAA) approved live streaming audio and video. 

 (6) “Fidelity” for the purposes of the IPS Supported Employment program means the Program is providing services that are faithful to the evidence-based practice model and obtains a satisfactory score from the Division Approved Reviewer for IPS Supported Employment as part of their regular reviews. 

 (7) “Fidelity Tool” means the documents used to score and evaluate a programs fidelity that is based on the Division approved evidence-based fidelity scale. 

 (8) “Full Time Employment” or “FTE” means a way to measure how many full-time employees are required to provide the appropriate level of service to fulfill minimum fidelity requirements per the employer standards. FTE must be reflected in job description 

 (9) “Individual Placement and Support (IPS) Employment Services” means the evidence-based model of Supported Employment Services for people with  SPMI per 309-019-0270(12). IPS helps people identify and acquire part-time or full-time employment of their choice in their community. 

 (10) “Person-Centered Planning” means the IPS program services are based on individual preferences and choices for employment. This includes but is not limited to culturally, linguistically, and developmentally appropriate for that participant. 

 (11) “Rapid Job Search” means an approach utilized to help participants obtain jobs directly, training, and or job counseling . 

 (12) Serious Mental Illness (SMI) means for IPS programs, the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) diagnostic criteria as a primary diagnosis for an adult 18 years of age or older:   

 (13) “Systematic Job Development” means the IPS program creates an employer network based on participants’ interests and developing relationships and partnerships with local employers. 

 (14) “Work Incentive Planning” means a document that is personalized to fit the need of a participant to ensure that individuals receive information regarding an array of benefits that may or may not be available to them and how employment could impact those services. This can include but not limited to: SNAP, Medical Benefits, Veteran Affairs benefits, subsidies housing, dependent benefits, transportation assistance etc. This can be also referred to as Personalized Benefit Planning however IPS model reflects as “Work Incentive Planning” 

 (15) “Vocational Services” means employment support that will contribute to gaining competitive integrated employment.  This service will include a vocational profile that includes information about the participants preferences, experiences, skills, strengths, person contacts etc. This will include input from participant, treatment team, clinical records, and any others the participant identifies per preference. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.630 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 3-2024, amend filed 01/27/2024, effective 02/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 6-2017, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-17 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 1-2017(Temp), f. 1-17-17, cert. ef. 1-18-17 thru 7-16-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 26-2016(Temp), f. 12-27-16, cert. ef. 12-28-16 thru 6-23-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
