



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL 
 603-052-0390 
 Wallowa County Potato Disease Control Area and Procedures 
 
 (1) As authorized by ORS 570.405 to 470.435 a control area is established for the protection of the seed potato industry in Wallowa County against the introduction and spread of potato diseases, including viruses and pests. Such area includes all of Wallowa County, Oregon.  (2) The following methods are to be used in the control area described in section (1) of this rule for the control of potato diseases and pests within the control area and to prevent the introduction of such diseases and pests into Wallowa County:  (a) All potato seed imported into the control area shall have a Federal-State Shipping Point inspection and certification prior to entering the control areas;  (b) All potato seed planted in the control area for the purpose of producing commercial or seed quality potatoes shall be of a quality which meets the minimum requirements of the Oregon State University potato seed certification standards for Generation III, VT-SC Stock established via stem-cutting, and must be eligible for recertification in the growing area. Recertification quality shall be based on a winter test and must meet the Oregon State University potato seed certification standard for Generation III, VT-SC winter test tolerances;  (c) All potato seed sold in the control area for the purpose of home garden or noncommercial potato production shall be of a quality which meets the minimum requirements of the Oregon State University potato seed certification standards for Oregon Foundation Class;  (d) Copies of all certification tags and shipping point certificates shall be forwarded to the Department for final approval of potato seed stock intended for use in the production of commercial or seed quality potatoes within the control area; and  (e) All cull potatoes accumulated at the time potatoes are dug and moved into storage shall be destroyed within 30 days thereof, and all cull potatoes accumulated during shipment process shall also be destroyed within 30 days thereof.  (3) Exceptions to the requirements specified in subsection (2)(b) of this rule shall be permitted only when planting stock of the quality specified in said subsection is not available for certain potato varieties. Varieties or clones considered under this exception shall be converted to the requirements set forth in subsection (2)(b) of this rule as soon as seed stock is available. Potato seed intended for use in production of commercial or seed quality potatoes which do not meet the recertification requirements of subsection (2)(b) of this rule are subject to the following limitations:  (a) Written approval to plant such potato seed stock shall be secured from the Department prior to planting in the control area;  (b) Such potato seed stock shall be limited to no more than twenty cwt. for any one variety, and for each cwt. of such variety planted at least ten tubers must be virus-tested in accordance with standards established under the Oregon State University seed potato certification program, and such variety of potato seed stock shall be brought up to the Oregon State University potato seed certification standards for Generation III, VT Stock within three years;  (c) All such potato seed stock shall be planted in accordance with the following procedures:  (A) Tuber Unit: a tuber unit shall consist of two or more seed pieces produced from a single tuber. The seed pieces so produced from a single tuber shall be planted in successive hills in the seed row with two or more hills skipped between tuber units;  (B) Single Drops: uncut single tubers selected from the allowable twenty cwt. may be planted as single drops provided that the single drop planting area is clearly marked within the field.  (4) Persons subjected to subsection (2)(b) of this rule shall have three years within which to convert their seed stock programs so as to meet the requirements set forth in said subsection, and seed stock used for the 1983 planting season shall meet the requirements of subsection (2)(b) of this rule.  (5) Any violation of this rule shall be deemed to be a violation of ORS 570.410 and subject the violator to the penalty provisions of ORS 570.990. Additionally, any potato seed found to be in violation of this rule shall be destroyed or disposed of in a manner prescribed by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 570 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 561.190, 561.510 - 561.600, 570.305, 570.405 & 570.410 - 415 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 3-1980, f. 4-22-80, ef. 5-12-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
