



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 PUBLIC CONTRACT RULES; HIGHWAY AND BRIDGE PROJECTS 
 731-005-0620 
 Mistakes
 
 
 (1) General. To protect the integrity of the competitive solicitation process and to assure fair treatment of Offerors, ODOT shall carefully consider whether to permit waiver, correction or withdrawal for certain mistakes. 

 (2) Agency Treatment of Mistakes. ODOT shall not allow an Offeror to correct or withdraw an Offer for an error in judgment. If ODOT discovers certain mistakes in an Offer after Opening, but before award of the Contract, ODOT may take the following action: 

 (a) ODOT may waive, or permit an Offeror to correct, a minor informality. A minor informality is a matter of form rather than substance that is evident on the face of the Offer, or an insignificant mistake that can be waived or corrected without prejudice to other Offerors. Examples of minor informalities include an Offeror's failure to: 

 (A) Return the correct number of Signed Offers or the correct number of other documents required by the Solicitation Document; 

 (B) Sign the Offer in the designated block, provided a Signature appears elsewhere in the Offer, evidencing an intent to be bound; and 

 (b) ODOT may correct a clerical error if the intended Offer and the error are evident on the face of the Offer, or other documents submitted with the Offer, and the Offeror confirms ODOT's correction in Writing. A clerical error is an Offeror's error in transcribing its Offer. Examples include typographical mistakes, errors in extending unit prices, transposition errors, arithmetical errors, instances in which the intended correct unit or amount is evident by simple arithmetic calculations (for example, a missing unit price may be established by dividing the total price for the units by the quantity of units for that item, or incorrect total price for an item may be established by multiplying the unit price by the quantity when those figures are available in the Offer). In the event of a discrepancy, unit prices shall prevail over extended prices. 

 (c) ODOT may permit an Offeror to withdraw an Offer based on other errors only if the Offeror shows by clear and convincing evidence to the satisfaction of ODOT: 

 (A) The nature of the error on the face of the Offer or documents submitted with the Offer, pursuant to the solicitation requirements; and 

 (B) That the error is not a judgment error, minor informality or clerical error. 

 (3) Rejection for Mistakes. ODOT shall reject any Offer in which a mistake is evident on the face of the Offer and the intended correct Offer is not evident or cannot be substantiated from documents submitted with the Offer, pursuant to solicitation requirements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.619, 279A.050 & 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279C.375 & 279C.395 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 1-2024, amend filed 05/09/2024, effective 06/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 2-2005, f. 2-16-05, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
