



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 86 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING — ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICES 
 411-086-0240 
 Social Services 
 
 (1) Social Services Program. A social services program shall be provided which identifies, attains and maintains the highest practicable physical, mental and psychosocial well-being of each resident:  (a) The program shall assist facility staff, family and friends of the resident to help meet the resident’s personal and emotional needs;  (b) The facility shall provide space and furnishings for social services which are readily accessible and assure privacy for interviewing, counseling and telephone conversations.  (2) Social Services Director. The facility shall employ a Social Services Director. The Director shall have a written job description which identifies the duties and responsibilities of the position and includes the requirements to be met by this rule:  (a) Qualifications. The Social Services Director shall:  (A) Have a bachelor’s or master’s degree in behavioral sciences (e.g., human development, psychology, sociology or counseling) with at least one year’s experience in a health care setting; or  (B) An associate degree in behavioral sciences with two years’ experience in a health care setting; or  (C) Receive regular on-site consultation, no less often than quarterly, from an individual who has a bachelor’s or master’s dgree in social work or a related behavioral science, and one year’s experience in a long-term care setting working directly with individual residents, and have written procedures for referring residents in need of social services to appropriate resources;  (D) The Social Services Director of a facility with more than 120 beds shall be full-time and shall meet the requirements in either paragraph (2)(a)(A) or (B) of this rule.  (b) Responsibilities. The Social Services Director shall:  (A) Interview residents and family;  (B) Assess the psychosocial and emotional needs of the residents;  (C) Participate in resident care planning conferences and socal service inservices for facility staff;  (D) Identify and document changes in affect, behavior and personality;  (E) Maintain liaison with community agencies and ensure needed ancillary services are available and provided when requested;  (F) Help ensure that the resident’s rights are provided and protected;  (G) Make referrals as needed and document outcomes;  (H) Plan and participate in facility inservice required by OAR 411-086-0310; and  (I) Prepare for resident’s discharge as appropriate:  (i) The social services program staff shall educate the resident and the resident’s significant others regarding the resident’s rights, the resident’s potential for discharge and the availability of alternate living services;  (ii) The social services staff shall assess the resident’s potential for discharge and the availability of alternate living services no less often than quarterly;  (iii) The social services staff shall assist with the development and coordination of services required to effect the resident’s discharge.  (J) Assist the resident in obtaining appropriate prosthetics that will allow for resident’s optimal functioning and quality of life.  (3) Staffing. The facility shall have adequate staffing to carry out the social services program in accordance with facility policy (OAR 411-085-0210).  (4) Social Services Plan. Each resident shall have a social services plan incorporated into the comprehensive care plan based on the psychosocial and comprehensive assessments. The social services plan shall be reviewed and updated as frequently as the resident’s condition changes, but no less often than quarterly.  (5) Documentation. Progress notes relevant to the plan shall be documented in the clinical record as frequently as the resident’s condition changes, but no less often than quarterly. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070, 410.090 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 8-1993, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 19-1990, f. 8-29-90, cert. ef. 10-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
