



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 228 REQUIREMENTS FOR FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT AND FUEL SULFUR CONTENT 
 340-228-0639 
 Utility Mercury Rule: Fuel Analyses and Procedures
 
 
 (1) The owner or operator must conduct fuel analyses according to the procedures in sections (2) through (5) of this rule and Table 4 to this division, as applicable. 

 (2) The owner or operator must develop and submit a site-specific fuel analysis plan to the Department for review and approval according to the following procedures and requirements in subsections (2)(a) and (b) of this rule. 

 (a) The owner or operator must submit the fuel analysis plan no later than 60 days before the date that the owner or operator intends to demonstrate compliance. 

 (b) The owner or operator must include the information contained in paragraphs (2)(b)(A) through (F) of this rule in the fuel analysis plan. 

 (A) The identification of all fuel types anticipated to be burned in each boiler or process heater. 

 (B) For each fuel type, the notification of whether the owner or operator or a fuel supplier will be conducting the fuel analysis. 

 (C) For each fuel type, a detailed description of the sample location and specific procedures to be used for collecting and preparing the composite samples if the procedures are different from section (3) or (4) of this rule. Samples should be collected at a location that most accurately represents the fuel type, where possible, at a point prior to mixing with other dissimilar fuel types. 

 (D) For each fuel type, the analytical methods, with the expected minimum detection levels, to be used for the measurement of selected total metals, chlorine, or mercury. 

 (E) If requesting to use an alternative analytical method other than those required by Table 4 to this division, the owner or operator must also include a detailed description of the methods and procedures that will be used. 

 (F) If using fuel analysis from a fuel supplier in lieu of site-specific sampling and analysis, the fuel supplier must use the analytical methods required by Table 4 to this division. 

 (3) At a minimum, the owner or operator must obtain three composite fuel samples for each fuel type according to the procedures in subsection (3)(a) or (b) of this rule. 

 (a) If sampling from a belt (or screw) feeder, collect fuel samples according to paragraphs (3)(a)(A) and (B) of this rule. 

 (A) Stop the belt and withdraw a 6-inch wide sample from the full cross-section of the stopped belt to obtain a minimum two pounds of sample. Collect all the material (fines and coarse) in the full cross-section. Transfer the sample to a clean plastic bag. 

 (B) Each composite sample will consist of a minimum of three samples collected at approximately equal intervals during the testing period. 

 (b) If sampling from a fuel pile or truck, collect fuel samples according to paragraphs (3)(b)(A) through (C) of this rule. 

 (A) For each composite sample, select a minimum of five sampling locations uniformly spaced over the surface of the pile. 

 (B) At each sampling site, dig into the pile to a depth of 18 inches. Insert a clean flat square shovel into the hole and withdraw a sample, making sure that large pieces do not fall off during sampling. 

 (C) Transfer all samples to a clean plastic bag for further processing. 

 (4) Prepare each composite sample according to the procedures in subsections (4)(a) through (f) of this rule. 

 (a) Thoroughly mix and pour the entire composite sample over a clean plastic sheet. 

 (b) Break sample pieces larger than 3 inches into smaller sizes. 

 (c) Make a pie shape with the entire composite sample and subdivide it into four equal parts. 

 (d) Separate one of the quarter samples as the first subset. 

 (e) Grind the sample in a mill. 

 (f) If the subset is too large for grinding, repeat the procedures in subsection (4)(c) of this rule to obtain a one-quarter subsample for analysis. If the quarter sample is too large, subdivide it further using the same procedure. 

 (5) Determine the concentration of pollutants in the fuel (mercury) in units of pounds per million Btu of each composite sample for each fuel type according to the procedures in Table 4 to this subpart. 

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 & 468A.310 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-16-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
