



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-1820 
 Filing an Application to Expand Exclusive Service Territory 
 
 (1) A water utility may apply to expand its designated service territory to serve an area not currently being provided water service by filing an application under ORS 758.302(2). The application must include:  (a) The information required in OAR 860-036-1810(1)(a) through (k):  (b) A statement describing the need and reasons for water service in the proposed expanded service territory;  (c) The approximate date the water utility plans to begin providing service to the proposed expanded service territory;  (d) The proposed rates and charges to customers in the expanded service territory. Include customer growth projections that support the proposed water service rates and charges;  (e) A study showing the projected cost to provide service to the proposed expanded service territory. Identify the amount per each operating expense account at full build out;  (f) A schedule showing the projected capital structure including the methods of financing the construction and operation of the utility until it reaches 100 percent of the design capacity of the system;  (g) Evidence of existing or proposed capacities of the system and facilities to adequately serve the proposed expanded territory. Provide estimated average daily customer demand, customer peak demand, and daily pumping capacity per water source in gallons or cubic feet. If development will be in phases, separate this information by phase;  (h) A written description of the type of water treatment necessary, if required;  (i) A schedule showing the projected cost of the capital improvements necessary to serve the proposed service territory by plant accounts and the expected date the plant is projected to go into service. If the system is to be built in phases, show information for each phase individually;  (j) A list of all entities, including affiliates, upon which the applicant is relying to provide funding to the water utility for capital improvement, and an explanation of the manner and amount of such funding, including their financial statements and a copy of all contracts or agreements with the utility. This requirement will not apply to any person or entity holding less than 10 percent ownership interest in the utility;  (k) Financial statements demonstrating applicant's financial capability;  (l) A statement showing applicant's technical ability or capacity to procure technical skill necessary to provide service; and  (m) A statement describing any impact the expansion of service territory may have on existing customers.  (2) Within 15 calendar days of the filing date of the application, a water utility must provide written notice to existing customers that contains the information required by OAR 860-036-1810(2) as modified to reflect the request to expand service territory. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756, 757 & 758 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 758.300-758.320 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
