



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 140 OREGON COALITION BROWNFIELDS CLEANUP FUND 
 123-140-0050 
 Program Rights and Remedies 
 
 (1) The Department may exercise certain rights and remedies in the event the Recipient fails to comply with Contract provisions and, if allowed under the Contract, the Recipient fails to correct the deficiency within a reasonable time after the Recipient is notified of the deficiency. The circumstances that may warrant the Department's exercise of rights or remedies include, but are not limited to the following:  (a) None of the Project activities have begun within nine months after an OBCF award;  (b) Any third party agreement relating to the Project is not legally binding within six months of the OBCF award;  (c) Federal or State statutory or regulatory requirements have not been met;  (d) There is a significant deviation from the Contract;  (e) The Department finds that significant corrective actions are necessary to protect the integrity of the Project funds and those corrective actions are not, or will not, be made within a reasonable time; or  (f) A Recipient defaults on loan payments, which may otherwise be made from any source of revenue at the Recipient's disposal, including but not limited to General Fund revenues if the Recipient is a public entity borrower.  (2) The Department may exercise one or more of the following rights and remedies if the Recipient fails to comply with Contract provisions and the Recipient fails to correct the deficiency within a reasonable time after Recipient is notified of the deficiency:  (a) Bar a Recipient from applying for or receiving future Department assistance;  (b) Revoke an existing Department award;  (c) Withhold unexpended Department funds;  (d) Require immediate return of unexpended Department funds;  (e) Require repayment of expended Department funds;  (f) Withhold other state funds otherwise due to the Recipient, such as state-shared revenues; or,  (g) Other remedies that may be incorporated into the Contract.  (3) The remedies set forth in this rule are cumulative, are not exclusive, and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under the Contract.  (4) The Recipient shall be responsible for ensuring that any subcontractor complies with the applicable terms and conditions of the Contract. Nothing in this rule shall restrict the Department's right to enforce independently the terms of any contract or to recover any sums that may become due as a result of a breach of such Contract. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.190, 285A.192 & 285A.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285A.190 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 8-2010, f. 3-30-10, cert. ef. 4-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EDD 9-2006, f. 10-30-06, cert. ef. 10-31-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
