



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Lottery 
 Chapter 177 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 LOTTERY PROMOTIONS, GIVEAWAYS, AND PLAYER LOYALTY PROGRAMS 
 177-051-0120 
 Limitation of Liability 
 
 (1) General: The State of Oregon, its agents, officers, and employees, the Oregon State Lottery Commission, and the Oregon State Lottery, and its agents, officers, and employees, are not liable for any:  (a) Late, lost, misrouted, garbled, distorted, or damaged entries, claims, other communications, or transmissions;  (b) Telephone, electronic, hardware, software, network, Internet, or other computer, or communications-related malfunctions or failures;  (c) Promotion disruptions, any printing or typographical errors in any materials associated with a promotion;  (d) Entries, claims, or other communications not received by the Lottery, or if applicable, by a Lottery contractor, vendor, or authorized agent, or that are lost in the mail or delivered elsewhere, or are electronically misrouted or misdirected; or  (e) Other injuries, losses, or damages arising from, related to, or caused by a promotion, or any claims arising from or related to the acceptance, possession, or use of any promotional reward, giveaway, or any other item of value offered by the Lottery.  (2) Voluntary Participation: Participation in a promotion is voluntary. Acceptance of any promotional reward, giveaway, or other item of value offered in a promotion is voluntary. Promotions that require persons to compete with other persons, play games, or complete tasks, or any similar activities carry a risk of personal injury or death. Participation is at the person’s own risk. The State of Oregon, its agents, officers, and employees and the Oregon State Lottery Commission and the Oregon State Lottery, its agents, officers, and employees, are not liable for any personal injury, loss, or consequential damage arising from, related to, or caused by a person’s participation in any promotion. Possession, use, or participation in any activity resulting from the acceptance of a promotional reward, giveaway, or other item of value awarded to a person by the Lottery carry a risk of personal injury or death. Such acceptance is at the person’s own risk. The State of Oregon, its agents, officers, and employees and the Oregon State Lottery Commission and the Oregon State Lottery, its agents, officers, and employees, are not liable for any personal injury, loss, or consequential damage arising from, related to, or caused by a person’s acceptance of any promotional reward, giveaway, or other item of value awarded to the person by the Lottery.  (3) Disputes: In the event a person disagrees with the Lottery’s determination that the person is not eligible to participate in a promotion, or has not complied with the terms and conditions of a promotion, and therefore should not receive a promotional reward, giveaway, or any other item of value offered by the Lottery, the Lottery’s determination is final. At the sole discretion of the Lottery, and if the person is eligible, the Lottery may provide the person with the opportunity to enter another promotion, or may provide the person a ticket or share from any current Lottery game. This is the person’s sole and exclusive remedy. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OR Const. Art. XV, Sec. 4(4) & ORS 461 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 461.200 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 2-2013, f. 6-24-13, cert. ef. 7-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 1-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-1-13 thru 7-27-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 3-2011, f. 7-29-11, cert. ef. 8-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 13-2003, f. & cert. ef. 9-29-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 5-2003(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 5-28-03 thru 11-21-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
