



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 250 WATER DISTRIBUTION 
 690-250-0080 
 Water Rotation Agreements 
 
 (1) Appropriators may rotate use of the supply to which they may be collectively entitled. The nature of potential agreements are subject to the limitations in section (3) of this rule.  (2) An agreement shall identify the duration of the agreement which shall be no less than one irrigation season. The agreement shall not be terminated within an irrigation season, and the rotation agreement shall be signed by all participants and dated. A copy of the agreement shall be filed with the watermaster for the area. Unless the rotation agreement provides otherwise, any member of the agreement may notify the watermaster after the end of the irrigation season, and before the beginning of the next season’s use, that they are terminating the agreement.  (3) A watermaster shall distribute water only under those enforceable agreements that include the provisions of section (2) of this rule. A watermaster shall not implement a rotation agreement that violates existing water statutes, court decrees, instream water rights, minimum flows, other rules of the Commission, or interferes with the rights of any appropriator not a member of such agreement. If distribution of water by the rotation agreement requires substantially more of the watermaster’s time than distribution among the relative priorities, then the watermaster may require payment by the appropriators for an assistant watermaster, as described in ORS 540.100.  (4) The agreement may contain language describing how a call from an appropriator or minimum flow senior to one or more appropriators in the rotation will be honored. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 24-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
