



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 OREGON AGRICULTURAL OPPORTUNITIES FUND 
 603-009-0060 
 Grant Awards 
 
 (1) The Director will review the recommendations of staff as well as current information on available lottery revenues.  (2) The Director will review those proposals that have been recommended by staff from the Department and will make one of the following decisions for each proposal.  (a) Approval of project and grant award for the full amount requested;  (b) Approval of project and grant award of partial amount requested. In this instance, the Director may elect to fund a portion or a phase of a project;  (c) Deferral of proposal for further consideration based upon submission of additional information;  (d) Denial of request. Applicants whose proposals are denied may reapply at subsequent deadlines.  (3) The Director may invite applicants to make presentations on behalf of their proposals at review meetings.  (4) Any funds not allocated within the current quarter may be carried forward into the next quarter.  (5)(a) Generally, the Director will obligate only those revenues available in the current quarter and will not obligate lottery revenues from future quarters to grants under consideration;  (b) In some instances, project scope and duration may justify allocations of funds before collection. When this condition arises, the Director may make a commitment to an applicant based on forecasted and anticipated lottery revenues, provided:  (A) The commitment clearly explains that any ultimate grant award is contingent upon actual lottery collections; and  (B) The commitment provides options for both the applicant and the Director should the forecasted revenues fail to materialize. Options shall range from full award of the identified amount, a partial award based on proportions of lottery revenues (or other calculations), to cancellation of the commitment if revenues are too far below the forecasted levels. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 576 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 576.013 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 13-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-18-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
