



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 53 SCHOOL BUS DRIVER TRAINING, LICENSING, AND SCHOOL BUS STANDARDS 
 581-053-0640 
 Minimum Standards for Special Pupil Activity Buses 
 
 (1) SPAB equipment requirements:  (a) Emergency exits shall be labeled with instructions to meet FMVSS 217.  (b) Shall have roof hatches that meet FMVSS 217.  (c) Shall have reflective “conspicuity marking” on the rear that meets or exceeds the coefficient of retro reflectivity of ASTM D 4956 for Type 1 Engineering Grade standards.  (d) Rear wheel wells shall not be composed of exposed flammable material or rear wheel wells shall have pressure and temperature sending units mounted inside rear wheel rims that will activate an alarm in the drivers compartment when either pressure or temperature are outside normal ranges.  (e) Shall have air brakes.  (2) Emergency Equipment:  (a) Emergency road reflectors:  (A) Each SPAB shall be equipped with at least three DOT triangle reflectorized disabled vehicle warning devices;  (B) Reflectors must be in a container securely mounted with nut-and-bolt fasteners enhanced with large flat (fender) washers or held in place by a nut-and-bolt mounted metal bracket that also protects and secures the container lid or in a location provided by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) which securely holds the container. Both must be located in an accessible location. Reflectors must not be mounted in any engine compartment;  (C) If not mounted in plain view of the driver, the location must be clearly designated.  (b) Fire extinguishers:  (A) Each SPAB shall be equipped with at least one pressurized, dry, chemical type fire extinguisher, mounted in a bracket. A pressure gauge shall be mounted on each extinguisher so as to be readily read without removing the extinguisher from its mounted position. A SPAB must have either:  (i) One or more fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., with a rating of 5 BC or more; or  (ii) Two or more fire extinguishers, each of which has Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., rating of 4 BC or more.  (B) Extinguishers with plastic heads are not permitted.  (c) A first aid kit.  (3) Maintenance and inspections:  (a) SPABs must be maintained in safe operating condition and must meet or exceed the minimum standards in effect at the time of purchase for the type of vehicle, plus any subsequent rules applicable to the vehicle.  (b) Vehicle maintenance records must be kept for each vehicle used to transport students. These records shall be available to ODE upon request. Records shall be kept for every service, adjustment or repair of the following items and shall include date and mileage:  (A) Chassis lubrication;  (B) Engine oil and filter changes;  (C) Major engine tune-ups and repairs;  (D) All adjustment, service and repair of brake system;  (E) All adjustment, service and repair of steering mechanism and other related parts;  (F) Tires; and  (G) Drive train components.  (c) SPAB carriers shall have all vehicles used in transporting pupils inspected annually, and certify to ODE that all deficiencies have been corrected before the SPAB is used to transport students. Copies of the Annual Vehicle Inspection Report must be sent to ODE.  (d) ODE personnel may conduct an inspection of a SPAB at any time or upon request of the motorcoach carrier. ODE may investigate accidents and examine SPABs involved in accidents as the Department considers necessary.  (e) Upon inspection of a SPAB by ODE personnel, motor coach carrier shall be notified in writing of deficiencies. Such deficiencies must be corrected by the motorcoach carrier before the SPAB is dispatched.  (f) The motor coach carrier must notify ODE in writing that the deficiency is corrected before transporting students in a SPAB that has been declared unsafe in subsection (e) of this section. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 327.013 & 820.100 - 820.120 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 327.013, 820.100, 820.105, 820.110 & 820.120 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 40-2014, f. & cert. ef. 9-3-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 19-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-14-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
