



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 DROUGHT MITIGATION 
 690-019-0090 
 Requirement for Conservation and Curtailment Plans 
 
 (1) When the Commission declares that a severe or continuing drought is likely to occur, it may order state agencies and political subdivisions to develop and file with the Director conservation or curtailment plans:  (a) The Commission’s order shall require development of the plan within 30 days from the date of the order; and  (b) If a state agency or political subdivision fails to comply with the order to provide plans that are acceptable to the Director, or fails to implement approved plans when directed by the Governor, the Director may do any or all of the following:  (A) Delay approval of an emergency use permit requested by a state agency or political subdivision;  (B) Suspend use under an existing emergency use permit held by a state agency or political subdivision;  (C) Offer evidence of the failure to comply by a political subdivision to the Commission when the Commission is considering designating an area for preference of use for livestock and human consumption; and  (D) Develop an appropriate plan for the state agency or political subdivision. Plans developed by the Director shall be implemented by the state agency or political subdivision when directed by the Governor.  (2) Following a declaration by the Governor that a severe, continuing drought exists or is likely to exist, the Governor may direct state agencies and political subdivisions to implement water conservation or curtailment plans, as approved by the Director:  (a) Water conservation plans shall include procedures to:  (A) Reduce usage of water resources for non-essential public purposes;  (B) Undertake activities consistent with law designed to promote conservation, prevention of waste, salvage and reuse of water resources; and  (C) Establish programs consistent with law designed to promote conservation, prevention of waste, salvage and reuse of water.  (b) Water curtailment plans shall be developed to provide water necessary for human and livestock consumption during a severe, continuing drought. The plans shall specify procedures:  (A) To curtail, adjust or allocate the supply of water resources for domestic, municipal and industrial use; and  (B) To regulate the times and manner in which water resources are consumed.  (c) Approval by the Director of a water conservation plan or a water curtailment plan is contingent on the Director finding that the plan satisfactorily promotes uniformity in water conservation or curtailment practices and that there is consideration given to local conditions in providing coordination of usage regulation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.720 - 536.780 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 536.720 - 536.780 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 8-1994, f. & cert. ef. 8-2-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 7-1990, f. & cert. ef. 6-25-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
