



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Treasury 
 Chapter 170 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 PUBLIC FUNDS COLLATERALIZATION RULES 
 170-040-0030 
 Approval of Loan Repayment Obligations Pledged by Depositories 
 
 (1) Loan repayment obligations owed by a county, city, school district, port district or other public body in the State of Oregon may be pledged by a depository as collateral only after the depository has received written approval from the Office of the State Treasurer (OST). However, the OST will not accept requests for and approve such loans as collateral, unless and until written notice is provided to depositories that, from a date designated in the notice, OST will begin to accept such requests and evaluate the acceptability of such loans as collateral. In the event OST approves such loans as collateral, the loans will be valued at seventy-five percent of their outstanding principal amount for purposes of calculating whether adequate collateral has been pledged by a depository with its custodian, as required under ORS Chapter 295.  (2) After receipt of the notice described above, the depository shall submit a written request to the OST containing the following information:  (a) The name of the payment obligor under the loan;  (b) The original principal balance of the loan;  (c) The current unpaid principal balance of the loan;  (d) The maturity date for the loan;  (e) Whether the loan may be repaid prior to maturity;  (f) The credit rating (if applicable) of the general obligations of the obligor;  (g) The credit enhancement (such as insurance), if any, for the loan;  (h) Whether an event of default has ever occurred under the loan; and  (i) Whether the obligor has defaulted with respect to the payment of principal or interest on any of its loans or similar obligations within the preceding 10 years or during the period of its existence if that is less than 10 years.  (3) The OST will permit a loan to be pledged as security only if:  (a) The public body has not been in default with respect to the payment of principal or interest on any of its loans within the preceding 10 years or during the period of its existence if that is less than 10 years;  (b) If rated by a rating agency, the public body’s general obligations have a credit rating of AA or Aa;  (c) If the loan is credit enhanced, the provider of the credit enhancement has a credit rating of, AA or Aa;  (d) If the above referenced ratings are not available, OST determines, based on the information submitted to it, that the loan is of sufficiently high credit quality that it may be pledged as collateral; and  (e) The unpaid principal amount of the loans pledged does not exceed 30% of the depository’s collateral. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 295.001(19)(f) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OST 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OST 2-2008, f. 6-27-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
