



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 SALE OF FOREST PRODUCTS FROM LANDS OWNED OR MANAGED BY THE STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY 
 629-029-0035 
 Time for Receipt of Bids 
 
 (1) Time for the closing of bids: Bids shall be received in the designated place and manner until the time set for the close of the receipt of bids. No bid shall be received after the time appointed unless the time for the receipt of bids is expanded in the manner set out below. The STATE’s agent designated for the receipt of bids shall determine when the time set for receipt has expired by reference to a clock maintained by the STATE in the place designated for the receipt of bids in the Invitation for Bids. In the absence of such a clock or in the event that the agent determines that the clock is inaccurate, the agent shall determine expiration of the time set for receipt of bids by whatever means the agent determines to be appropriate under the circumstances. The agent’s determination shall not be subject to review.  (2) The time set for the receipt of bids may be extended at the sole discretion of the STATE:  (a) By written amendment to the Notice of Timber Sale which shall be effective when issued and which will be provided to persons who have requested a copy of the Notice of Timber Sale; or  (b) Orally prior to the time set for the close of bids if the STATE’s agent determines that events have occurred that have restricted competition by preventing potential bidders from making a submittal including but not limited to: road closures, unusually severe weather, acts of God or acts of the public enemy, physical obstruction of access to the bid depository and similar occurrences beyond the control of bidders. Such postponement shall be confirmed in writing to each person who submitted a bid and to persons who have requested a copy of the Notice of Timber Sale on the next business day. The time for receipt of bids shall be extended at least two business days from the day the notice is issued.  (3) The time set for the receipt of bids shall not be extended if the time set for the receipt of bids has expired and the envelope enclosing a sealed bid has been opened.  (4) The judgment of the STATE in electing to extend the time for the receipt of bids is not subject to review. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 1-1997, f. 9-4-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
