



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Dentistry 
 Chapter 818 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 STANDARDS OF PRACTICE 
 818-012-0007 
 Procedures, Record Keeping and Reporting of Vaccines 
 
 (1) Prior to administering a vaccine to a patient of record, the dentist must follow the “Model Standing Orders” approved by the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) for administration of vaccines and the treatment of severe adverse events following administration of a vaccine. 

 (2) The dentist must maintain written policies and procedures for handling and disposal of used or contaminated equipment and supplies. 

 (3) The dentist or designated staff must give the appropriate Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) to the patient or legal representative with each dose of vaccine covered by these forms. The dentist or designated staff must ensure that the patient or legal representative is available and has read, or has had read to them, the information provided and has had their questions answered prior to the dentist administering the vaccine. The VIS given to the patient must be the most current statement. 

 (4) The dentist or designated staff must document in the patient record: 

 (a) The date and site of the administration of the vaccine; 

 (b) The brand name, or NDC number, or other acceptable standardized vaccine code set, dose, manufacturer, lot number, and expiration date of the vaccine; 

 (c) The name or identifiable initials of the administering dentist; 

 (d) The address of the office where the vaccine(s) was administered unless automatically embedded in the electronic report provided to the OHA ALERT Immunization System; 

 (e) The date of publication of the VIS; and 

 (f) The date the VIS was provided and the date when the VIS was published. 

 (5) If providing state or federal vaccines, the vaccine eligibility code as specified by the OHA must be reported to the ALERT system. 

 (6) A dentist who administers any vaccine must report, the elements of Section (3), and Section (4) of this rule if applicable, to the OHA ALERT Immunization System within 14 days of administration. 

 (7) The dentist must report adverse events as required by the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), to the Oregon Board of Dentistry within 10 business days and to the primary care provider as identified by the patient. 

 (8) A dentist who administers any vaccine will follow storage and handling guidance from the vaccine manufacturer and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 

 (9) Dentists who do not follow this rule can be subject to discipline for failure to adhere to these requirements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 679 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 679 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 1-2023, amend filed 06/20/2023, effective 07/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 2-2019, adopt filed 10/29/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
