



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 83 RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARDS 
 860-083-0100 
 Incremental Costs 
 
 (1)(a) For amortization and levelization calculations, an electric company must use the discount rate used in its most recently filed or updated integrated resource plan, unless otherwise specified by the Commission.  (b) For amortization and levelization calculations, an electricity service supplier must use the discount rate applicable to the electric company in whose service area it made the most retail sales in megawatt-hours over the five calendar years preceding the compliance year.  (c) The incremental cost under ORS 469A.100(4) for long-term qualifying electricity is the difference between the levelized annual cost of qualifying electricity delivered in a compliance year and the levelized annual cost of an equivalent amount of electricity delivered from the corresponding proxy plant.  (d) The time horizon for long-term qualifying electricity and for the corresponding proxy plant must be no longer than the amortization period of the qualifying electricity and must be at least as long as the lesser of:  (A) The amortization period of the qualifying electricity; or  (B) The period from the beginning year of the amortization period of the qualifying electricity until 20 years after the current compliance year.  (e) The incremental cost under ORS 469A.100(4) for short-term qualifying electricity is the difference between the levelized annual cost of qualifying electricity delivered in a compliance year and the levelized annual cost of an equivalent amount of delivered market purchases with a consistent term that is not qualifying electricity. The cost of non-qualifying electricity must be based on published prices for a nearby electricity trading hub. When choosing among nearby hubs, the one with transmission costs most similar to the short-term qualifying electricity must be used. Specific costs must be adjusted to account for the differences in all transmission-associated costs.  (f) Levelized annual delivered costs for qualifying electricity and non-qualifying electricity are specific costs plus applicable shares of aggregate costs.  (g) Aggregate and specific costs for interstate electric companies must reflect interstate allocations of costs.  (h) Incremental cost estimates for an electric company must be based on the likely impacts on the rates of its Oregon retail electricity consumers.  (i) Incremental costs are deemed to be zero for qualifying electricity from generating facilities or contracts that became operational before June 6, 2007 and for certified low-impact hydroelectric facilities under ORS 469A.025(5).  (2) Each electric company must forecast the levelized incremental cost of long-term qualifying electricity in the following manner:  (a) For each generation source of qualifying electricity, the electric company must estimate the delivered cost of qualifying electricity for each year over the time horizon of the qualifying electricity. Delivered cost includes aggregate costs and costs specific to a generating facility or contract. Costs include, but are not limited to, those specified in ORS 469A.100(4). Capital costs must be amortized.  (b) The levelized annual cost of qualifying electricity delivered in the compliance year must be based on all costs that will be included in rates through the qualifying electricity’s time horizon.  (c) Aggregate costs must be estimated as the incremental cost to the utility system for all qualifying electricity.  (d) Aggregate transmission costs must be allocated proportionately to existing and planned generating facilities that will reasonably be served by the transmission facilities.  (e) If an electric company anticipates that it will have firming and shaping services available for sale for a compliance year, the company may not use rates in its Open Access Transmission Tariff approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as the basis for the firming or shaping portion of aggregate costs. In such case, the electric company should use the actual or forecasted cost of supplying or purchasing firming and shaping services as the basis for such costs. If an electric company anticipates it will not be able to sell firming and shaping services due to its use of such services, the company may use its approved Open Access Transmission Tariff as the basis for such costs.  (3) Each electricity service supplier must forecast the cost of long-term qualifying electricity it plans to use to serve the service areas of electric companies subject to ORS 469A.052 consistent with section (2) of this rule.  (4) Updates of amortization periods are required for compliance reports described in ORS 469A.170 and implementation plans described in ORS 469A.075 under any of the following circumstances:  (a) If a generation facility that was previously included in a compliance report has significant investment costs in a compliance year, all qualifying electricity from the facility is new qualifying electricity under this rule with an amortization period based on the expected useful life of the facility, considering such investments. Except as provided in subsections (13)(a) and (b) of this rule, costs for each such facility must be updated in the next regularly scheduled compliance report and implementation plan.  (b) Except as provided in subsections (13)(a) and (b) of this rule, if a generating facility produces qualifying electricity after all capital costs have been amortized, the electric company must update the next regularly scheduled compliance report and implementation plan to establish an extended amortization period. The extended amortization period must be based on the expected remaining useful life of the facility. Qualifying electricity from the facility must be treated in the same manner as new qualifying electricity. Additional extended amortization periods may be added.  (c) Each electricity service supplier must update amortization periods for long-term qualifying electricity it plans to use to serve the service areas of electric companies subject to ORS 469A.052 consistent with subsections (4)(a) and (b) of this rule.  (5) The amortization period for a generation facility may change as provided in subsections (4)(a) or (b) or (6)(g) of this rule. Otherwise, the amortization period of the facility may not change.  (6) For each compliance year, except as provided in subsections (13)(a) and (b) of this rule, each electric company must establish a new proxy plant for use in estimating the cost of non-qualifying electricity corresponding to new long-term qualifying electricity with the same beginning amortization year. New proxy plant costs must be based on relevant information in the most recently filed or updated integrated resource plan unless there have been material changes since the most recent of such filings. Proxy plant costs must be estimated in the following manner:  (a) For each new proxy plant, each electric company must provide the estimated heat rate, availability factor, operation and maintenance costs per megawatt-hour, annualized capital replacement costs per megawatt-hour, and the initial capital costs per megawatt. The initial capital cost estimate must comply with the following requirements:  (A) Adjustment must be made for price escalation or de-escalation based on the initial year of the proxy plant and the applicable year of the estimate. Such adjustment may be based on applicable construction cost indexes or other published sources; and  (B) Initial capital costs must be amortized.  (b) Each electric company must estimate the costs of factors listed in subsection (6)(a) of this rule and other elements of the proxy plant that affect its costs for each year of the time horizon of the proxy plant. Estimates must account for expected degradation of the heat rate, capacity, and other elements affecting costs. Forecasts of fuel prices must include cost adders based on current regulation of greenhouse gas emissions or such regulations that are known or reasonably expected to be implemented in the relevant time frame.  (c) Each electric company must allocate aggregate costs for proxy plants in a manner consistent with the allocation of aggregate costs for qualifying electricity.  (d) For calculating the incremental cost for long-term qualifying electricity from a specific generating source, annual aggregate and specific costs for the corresponding proxy plant must be levelized over the time horizon of the qualifying electricity.  (e) The average cost per megawatt-hour for each year of the applicable time horizon is the levelized cost in subsection (6)(d) of this rule divided by the expected base-load electricity production of the proxy plant for that year.  (f) The cost of equivalent non-qualifying electricity is the estimated average cost per megawatt-hour of the proxy plant in subsection (6)(e) of this rule for each year multiplied by the amount of corresponding long-term qualifying electricity that was produced, or is expected to be produced, in each year of the applicable time horizon.  (g) If corresponding long-term qualifying electricity is produced or is planned to be produced after a proxy plant’s initial amortization period, a new amortization period for the qualifying electricity must be established based on the expected remaining useful life of the generating facility. Any remaining unamortized investment for the facility associated with the qualifying electricity must be amortized over the new amortization period. Qualifying electricity from the facility must be treated in the same manner as new qualifying electricity.  (h) If the initial amortization period for new long-term qualifying electricity is longer than the initial amortization period for the corresponding proxy plant, the electric company must estimate the year-by-year replacement capital, operation and maintenance expenditures necessary to extend the lifetime of the proxy plant to a period equal to or greater than the amortization period of the qualifying electricity. In such case, initial and replacement capital costs of the proxy plant must be amortized over its extended lifetime before the proxy plant costs are levelized in subsection (6)(d) of this rule. Fuel costs must be estimated for each year of the extended lifetime of the proxy plant. A proxy plant whose lifetime has been extended under this subsection may be used as the corresponding proxy plant for all new long-term qualifying electricity with the same beginning amortization year.  (i) Each electricity service supplier must forecast the cost of proxy plants consistent with subsections (6)(a) through (h) of this rule for plants corresponding to long-term qualifying electricity it plans to use to serve the service areas of an electric company subject to ORS 469A.052.  (7) To the extent practical, forecasts of proxy plant fuel prices in compliance reports and implementation plans must be based on the most recent forecast filed in an avoided cost proceeding under ORS 758.525(1) or filed or updated in an integrated resource planning proceeding per Commission orders. Fuel prices must include fuel transportation costs to an appropriate location for the proxy plant. Forecasts of fuel costs made by electric companies and electricity service suppliers for each new proxy plant must use one of the following methods when a new proxy plant is established:  (a) Proxy plant fuel prices may be based on financially firm, long-term fixed prices for fuel for the period such contracts are available. After such period, the method in subsection (7)(b) of this rule must be used; or  (b) Proxy plant fuel prices may be based on forecasts of spot prices for fuel at an appropriate market trading hub plus an estimate of the cost of hedging as much fuel price risk as can be reasonably achieved for remainder of the time horizon of such plant.  (8) To the extent practical, forecasts of biomass fuel prices in compliance reports and implementation plans must be based on the most recently filed or updated integrated resource plan. Fuel costs for long-term qualifying electricity from biomass sources specified in ORS 469A.025(2) must be forecast in a manner that reduces fuel price risk as much can be reasonably achieved though long-term contracts, hedging, or other mechanisms for the time horizon of the generation resource.  (9)(a) If fuel prices for a proxy plant or biomass plant were forecasted based on a method similar to the method in subsection (7)(b) of this rule, an electric company must update plant costs for actual spot fuel prices, including actual cost adders from regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, in each implementation plan and compliance report.  (b) If fuel prices are updated as described in subsection (9)(a) of this rule, actual fuel costs must include hedging costs as described in subsection (7)(b) or section (8) of this rule.  (c) For the period fuel prices for a proxy plant or biomass plant were forecasted based on a method similar to the method in subsection (7)(a) of this rule, fuel costs are not updated, except fuel costs are updated for additional actual costs from regulation of greenhouse gas emissions if such costs were not included in the contract referenced in subsection (7)(a) of this rule.  (d) In its implementation plans and compliance reports, an electric company must update for amounts of actual qualifying electricity.  (e) To the extent that forecasts of the amount of qualifying electricity are used in a compliance report, such forecasts, to the extent practicable, should be based on the most recently filed implementation plan, unless section (10) or (11) of this rule applies.  (f) In its compliance reports, an electricity service supplier must include updated estimates of the incremental cost of long-term qualifying electricity at least every two years consistent with subsections (9)(a) through (e) of this rule for qualifying electricity it plans to use to serve the service areas of an electric company subject to ORS 469A.052.  (10) If an electric company or electricity service supplier discovers a significant error in its incremental cost estimates, it must update incremental cost estimates in the next applicable filing.  (11) If the number of renewable energy certificates used for compliance or the amount of alternative compliance payments is reduced due to a cost limit in ORS 469A.100, the electric company or electricity service supplier must review the methodologies used to estimate the levelized costs of proxy plants and long-term qualifying electricity. If a systematic error is discovered, all such errors must be corrected in estimates of the incremental costs of qualifying electricity in the applicable compliance report. If such a correction is made, the correct total number of certificates and amount of alternative compliance payment, if any, must be used for the compliance year.  (12) If the cost limit specified in ORS 469A.100(1) is expected to reduce the number of renewable energy certificates used for compliance or the amount of alternative compliance payments for any forecasted compliance year covered by an implementation plan, the electric company must review the methodologies used to estimate the levelized costs of proxy plants and long-term qualifying electricity. If a systematic error is discovered, all such errors must be corrected in estimates of the incremental cost of qualifying electricity in the applicable implementation plan.  (13)(a) Except as provided in section (11) of this rule, if new long-term qualifying electricity in a compliance year, including qualifying electricity treated in the same manner as new qualifying electricity in subsections (4)(b) and (6)(g) of this rule, totals less than 20 megawatts of capacity, the incremental cost for such long-term qualifying electricity is not required to be included in compliance reports or implementation plans. Such long-term qualifying electricity may be included in a compliance report for purposes of determining compliance with the applicable renewable portfolio standard under ORS 469A.052 or 469A.065.  (b) When the capacity of qualifying electricity described in subsection (13)(a) of this rule equals or exceeds 20 megawatts in a compliance year or the cumulative capacity of qualifying electricity in subsection (13)(a) of this rule exceeds 50 megawatts, the incremental cost of all such qualifying electricity must be included in the compliance report for the compliance year and in compliance reports and implementation plans filed after such compliance report.  (c) The amortization periods for the qualifying electricity in subsections (13)(a) and (b) of this rule must begin at the same time as the latest operational date for the qualifying electricity. Costs must be adjusted for price escalation or de-escalation based on the beginning amortization year and actual initial years for such qualifying electricity. Adjustments may be based on applicable construction costs indexes or other published sources.  (d) A new proxy plant with the same beginning amortization year as the qualifying electricity in subsection (13)(c) of this rule must be used to estimate the non-qualifying costs corresponding to such qualifying electricity. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 756.040, 757.659 & 469A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469A.100 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 8-2009, f. & cert. ef. 8-5-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
