



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0475 
 Special Education: Deaf and Hard of Hearing: Program Standards 
 
 (1) Candidates who are prepared for the Special Education: Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing endorsement will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of students in the deaf and Hard-of-Hearing population.  (2) The Commission may provide approval to an educator preparation program or course of study that prepares candidates for a Special Education: Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing endorsement only if it includes:  (a) Content that will enable candidates to meet the standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook;  (b) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships in classrooms with deaf and hard-of-hearing learners; and  (c) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Special Education: Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Endorsement program.  (d) A requirement for students to complete the Commission-approved test for Deaf and Hard of Hearing;  (3) Standard 1: American Sign Language Competency: Candidates can demonstrate proficiency in American Sign Language to meet the rating of 3.0 or above on the American Sign Language Proficiency Interview (ASLPI), or the rating of Advanced on the Sign Language Proficiency Interview (SLPI).  (4) Standard 2: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to philosophical, historical, and legal foundations of special education for individuals who are deaf or hard-of-hearing and be able to incorporate this knowledge within the context of the educational system.  (5) Standard 3: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to models of practice, and growth and improvement indicators for students who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.  (6) Standard 4: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to the impact that disabilities have on the cognitive, physical, emotional, social, and communication development of an individual and to create opportunities that support the communication, intellectual, social, and personal development of all students.  (7) Standard 5: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to the educational assessment process and to utilize various assessment strategies to support the continuous development of all students.  (8) Standard 6: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to how students differ in their approaches to learning and to create instructional opportunities that are adapted to diverse learners.  (9) Standard 7: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to proficiency in the languages used for instructing students who are deaf or hard-of-hearing ;  (10) Standard 8: Candidates demonstrate knowledge and skills related to individual and group motivation and behavior to create a learning environment that encourages positive social interaction, active engagement in learning, and self-motivation.  (11) Standard 9: Candidates demonstrate the ability to interact in a variety of communication situations.  (12) Standard 10: Candidates demonstrate the ability to use effective written, verbal, nonverbal, and visual communication techniques to foster active inquiry, collaboration, and supportive interaction among professionals, parents, paraprofessionals, and students.  (13) Standard 11: Candidates demonstrate knowledge related to the teaching profession, standards of professional conduct, and to providing leadership to improve student learning and well-being. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430; 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 13-2015(Temp), f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
