



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0590 
 Twin Trifecta Pools 
 
 (1) The Twin Trifecta requires selection of the first three finishers, in their exact order, in each of two designated contests. Each winning ticket for the first Twin Trifecta contest must be exchanged for a free ticket on the second Twin Trifecta contest in order to remain eligible for the second-half Twin Trifecta pool. Such tickets may be exchanged only at attended ticket windows prior to the second Twin Trifecta contest. Winning first half Twin Trifecta wagers will receive both an exchange and a monetary payoff. Both of the designated Twin Trifecta contests shall be included in only one Twin Trifecta pool.  (2) After wagering closes for the first half of the Twin Trifecta and commissions have been deducted from the pool, the net pool shall then be divided into separate pools: the first half Twin Trifecta pool and the second-half Twin Trifecta pool.  (3) In the first Twin Trifecta contest only, winning wagers shall be determined using the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish for the first Twin Trifecta contest:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first three betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those whose combination correctly selected the first-place betting interest only; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) The entire Twin Trifecta pool shall be refunded on Twin Trifecta wagers for that contest and the second-half shall be cancelled.  (4) If no first half Twin Trifecta ticket selects the first three finishers of that contest in exact order, winning ticket holders shall not receive any exchange tickets for the second-half Twin Trifecta pool. In such case, the second-half Twin Trifecta pool shall be retained and added to any existing Twin Trifecta carryover pool.  (5) Winning tickets from the first half of the Twin Trifecta shall be exchanged for tickets selecting the first three finishers of the second-half of the Twin Trifecta. The second-half Twin Trifecta pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish for the second Twin Trifecta contest:  (a) As a single price pool, including any existing carryover monies, to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first three betting interests; but if there are no such tickets; then  (b) The entire second-half Twin Trifecta pool for that contest shall be added to any existing carryover monies and retained for the corresponding second-half Twin Trifecta pool of the next consecutive performance.  (6) If a winning first half Twin Trifecta ticket is not presented for cashing and exchange prior to the second-half Twin Trifecta contest, the ticket holder may still collect the monetary value associated with the first half Twin Trifecta pool but forfeits all rights to any distribution of the second-half Twin Trifecta pool.  (7) Should a betting interest in the first half of the Twin Trifecta be scratched, those Twin Trifecta wagers including the scratched betting interest shall be refunded.  (8) Should a betting interest in the second-half of the Twin Trifecta be scratched, an announcement concerning the scratch shall be made and a reasonable amount of time shall be provided for exchange of tickets that include the scratched betting interest. If tickets have not been exchanged prior to the close of betting for the second Twin Trifecta contest, the ticket holder forfeits all rights to the second-half Twin Trifecta pool.  (9) If, due to a late scratch, the number of betting interests in the second-half of the Twin Trifecta is reduced to fewer than the minimum, all exchange tickets and outstanding first half winning tickets shall be entitled to the second-half Twin Trifecta pool for that contest as a single price pool, but not the Twin-Trifecta carryover.  (10) If there is a dead heat or multiple dead heats in either the first- or second-half of the Twin Trifecta, all Twin Trifecta wagers selecting the correct order of finish, counting a betting interest involved in a dead heat as finishing in any dead-heated position, shall be a winner. In the case of a dead heat occurring in:  (a) The first half of the Twin Trifecta, the payoff shall be calculated as a profit split.  (b) The second-half of the Twin Trifecta, the payoff shall be calculated as a single price pool.  (11) If either of the Twin Trifecta contests are cancelled prior to the first Twin Trifecta contest, or the first Twin Trifecta contest is declared “no contest,” the entire Twin Trifecta pool shall be refunded on Twin Trifecta wagers for that contest and the second-half shall be cancelled.  (12) If the second-half Twin Trifecta contest is cancelled or declared “no contest,” all exchange tickets and outstanding first half winning Twin Trifecta tickets shall be entitled to the net Twin Trifecta pool for that contest as a single price pool, but not Twin-Trifecta carryover. If there are no such tickets, the net Twin Trifecta pool shall be distributed as described in subsection (3) of the Twin Trifecta rules.  (13) The Twin-Trifecta carryover may be capped at a designated level approved by the commission so that if, at the close of any performance, the amount in the Twin-Trifecta carryover equals or exceeds the designated cap, the Twin-Trifecta carryover will be frozen until it is won or distributed under other provisions of this rule. After the Twin Trifecta carryover is frozen, 100 percent of the net Twin Trifecta pool for each individual contest shall be distributed to winners of the first half of the Twin Trifecta pool.  (14) A written request for permission to distribute the Twin-Trifecta carryover on a specific performance may be submitted to the commission. The request must contain justification for the distribution, an explanation of the benefit to be derived, and the intended date and performance for the distribution.  (15) Should the Twin-Trifecta carryover be designated for distribution on a specified date and performance, the following precedence will be followed in determining winning tickets for the second-half of the Twin Trifecta after completion of the first half of the Twin Trifecta:  (a) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished in correct sequence as the first three betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination included, in correct sequence, the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a single price pool to those whose combination correctly selected the first-place betting interest only; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a single price pool to holders of valid exchange tickets.  (e) As a single price pool to holders of outstanding first half winning tickets.  (16) Contrary to subsection 4 of the Twin Trifecta rules, during a performance designated to distribute the Twin-Trifecta carryover, exchange tickets will be issued for those combinations selecting the greatest number of betting interests in their correct order of finish for the first half of the Twin Trifecta. If there are no wagers correctly selecting the first-, second-, and third-place finishers, in their exact order, then exchange tickets shall be issued for combinations correctly selecting the first- and second-place betting interests. If there are no wagers correctly selecting the first- and second-place finishers, in their exact order, then exchange tickets shall be issued for combinations correctly selecting the first-place betting interest only. If there are no wagers selecting the first-place betting interest only in the first half of the Twin Trifecta, all first half tickets will become winners and will receive 100 percent of that day’s net Twin Trifecta pool and any existing Twin-Trifecta carryover as a single price pool.  (17) The Twin-Trifecta carryover shall be designated for distribution on a specified date and performance only under the following circumstances:  (a) Upon written approval from the commission as provided in subsection (15) of the Twin Trifecta rules.  (b) Upon written approval from the commission when there is a change in the carryover cap or when the Twin Trifecta is discontinued.  (c) On the closing performance of the meet or split meet.  (18) If, for any reason, the Twin-Trifecta carryover must be held over to the corresponding Twin Trifecta pool of a subsequent meet, the carryover shall be deposited in an interest bearing account approved by the commission. The Twin-Trifecta carryover plus accrued interest shall then be added to the second-half Twin Trifecta pool of the following meet on a date and performance so designated by the commission.  (19) Providing information to any person regarding covered combinations, amounts wagered on specific combinations, number of tickets sold, or number of valid exchange tickets is prohibited. This shall not prohibit necessary communication between totalizator and pari-mutuel department employees for processing of pool data.  (20) The race meet licensee must obtain written approval from the commission concerning the scheduling of Twin Trifecta contests, the percentages of the net pool added to the first half pool and second-half pool, and the amount of any cap to be set on the carryover. Any changes to the approved Twin Trifecta format require prior approval from the commission. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
