



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Dentistry 
 Chapter 818 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 13 HEALTH PROFESSIONALS’ SERVICES PROGRAM 
 818-013-0001 
 Definitions 
 
 For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:  (1) “Confidential” means that, to the highest degree possible, the identities of the licensees investigated for alleged addiction to, dependence upon, or abuse of alcohol, drugs, and mind altering substances, or mental health disorders, and who have a diagnosed substance abuse disorder or mental health disorder, will be kept confidential by the Board and not be a matter of public record.  (2) “Diagnosis” means the principal mental health or substance use diagnosis listed in the DSM. The diagnosis is determined through the evaluation and any examinations, tests, or consultations suggested by the evaluation, and is the medically appropriate reason for services.  (3) “Direct Observe” means that a collection taker is in the restroom with donor and observes the providing of the sample throughout the entire process.  (4) “Diversion Coordinator” means the individual(s) authorized by the Board and the Executive Director to know the identities of the licensees who are candidates for or who are enrolled in HPSP.  (5) “Division” means the Oregon Health Authority, Addictions and Mental Health Division.  (6) “DSM” means the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, published by the American Psychiatric Association.  (7) “Evaluation” means the process a Board approved, independent evaluator uses to diagnose the licensee’s symptoms and to recommend treatment options for the licensee.  (8) “Health Professionals’ Services Program” (HPSP) means the consolidated, statewide health professionals program for licensees diagnosed with a substance use disorder, a mental health disorder, or both types of disorders, as established by ORS 676.190.  (9) “Independent evaluator” means a Board approved individual or entity qualified to evaluate, diagnose, and recommend treatment regimens for substance abuse disorders, mental health disorders, or co-occurring disorders.  (10) “Mental health disorder” means a clinically significant behavioral or psychological syndrome or pattern that occurs in an individual and that is associated with present distress or disability or with a significantly increased risk of suffering death, pain, disability, or an important loss of freedom that is identified in the DSM. “Mental health disorder” includes gambling disorders.  (11) “Monitoring agreement” means an individualized agreement between a licensee and the HPSP vendor that meets the requirements for a diversion agreement set by ORS 676.190.  (12) “Monitoring Entity” means an independent third-party that monitors licensees’ program enrollment statuses and monitoring agreement compliance.  (13) “Non-disciplinary” means the Board will not take disciplinary action or enter disciplinary orders against a licensee who agrees to enter into the HPSP and remains compliant with that program.  (14) “Non-identifying” means a system where the licensee is referred to by number rather than name and the licensee’s identity remains confidential to the Board.  (15) “Program” means the process whereby allegations of addiction to, dependence upon, or abuse of alcohol, drugs, or mind altering substances or mental health disorders are investigated, evaluated, and reported to the Board for action.  (16) “Substance Use Disorders” means disorders related to the taking of a drug of abuse including alcohol, to the side effects of a medication, and to a toxin exposure. The disorders include substance use disorders such as substance dependence and substance abuse, and substance-induced disorders, including substance intoxication, withdrawal, delirium, and dementia, as well as substance induced psychotic disorder, mood disorder, etc., as defined in DSM criteria.  (17) “Substantial non-compliance” means that a licensee is in violation of the terms of his or her monitoring agreement in a way that gives rise to concerns about the licensee’s ability or willingness to participate in the program. Substantial non-compliance and non-compliance include, but are not limited to, the factors listed in ORS 676.190(1)(f). Conduct that occurred before a licensee entered into a monitoring agreement does not violate the terms of that monitoring agreement.  (18) “Successful completion” means the licensee has complied with the licensee’s monitoring agreement to the satisfaction of the Board.  (19) “Toxicology testing” means urine testing or alternative chemical monitoring including, but not limited to blood, saliva, or breath as conducted by a laboratory certified, accredited or licensed and approved for toxicology testing.  (20) “Treatment” means the planned, specific, individualized health and behavioral-health procedures, activities, services and supports that a treatment provider uses to remediate symptoms of a substance use disorder, mental health disorder or both types of disorders.  (21) “Vendor” means the entity that has contracted with the Division to conduct the program.  (22) “Voluntary” means that the Board cannot compel a licensee to enter the HPSP. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 676, 679 & 680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  676.185, 676.190, 676.195, 676.200 & 676.140(e) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 3-2013, f. 10-24-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 4-2011, f. & cert. ef. 11-15-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 1-2011, f. 1-11-11, cert. ef. 2-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBD 2-2010(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 8-6-10 thru 2-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
