



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 EGGS 
 603-022-0310 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) "Adulterated” means eggs of possible edible quality that fail to meet the requirements of an official Oregon grade or that have been contaminated by smoke, chemicals, or other foreign material which has seriously affected the character, appearance, or flavor of the eggs.  (2) Dirty. An individual egg that has an unbroken shell with adhering dirt or foreign material, prominent stains, or moderate stains covering more than 1/32 of the shell surface if localized, or 1/16 of the shell surface if scattered.  (3) Check. An individual egg that has a broken shell or crack in the shell but with its shell membranes intact and its contents do not leak. A "check" is considered to be lower in quality than a "dirty.”  (4) "Inedible Eggs" means eggs of the following descriptions are classed as inedible: Black rots, yellow rots, white rots, mixed rots (addled eggs), sour eggs, eggs with green whites, eggs with stuck yolks, moldy eggs, musty eggs, eggs showing blood rings, eggs containing embryo chicks (at or beyond the blood ring state), and any eggs that are adulterated as such term is defined pursuant to the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 342.  (5) "Leaker" means an individual egg that has a crack or break in the shell and shell membranes to the extent that the egg contents are exuding or free to exude through the shell.  (6) "Loss" means an egg that is inedible, smashed, or broken so that contents are leaking, cooked, frozen, contaminated, or containing bloody whites, large blood spots, large unsightly meat spots, or other foreign material.  (7) Terms descriptive of the shell:  (a) Clean. A shell that is free from foreign material and from stains or discolorations that are readily visible. An egg may be considered clean if it has only very small specks, stains or cage marks, if such specks, stains or cage marks are not of sufficient number or intensity to detract from the generally clean appearance of the egg. Eggs that show traces of processing oil on the shell are considered clean unless otherwise soiled;  (b) Dirty. A shell that is unbroken and that has dirt or foreign material adhering to its surface, which has prominent stains, or has moderate stains covering more than 1/32 of the shell surface if localized, or 1/16 of the shell surface if scattered;  (c) Practically normal (AA or A quality). A shell that approximates the usual shape and that is sound and is free from thin spots. Ridges and rough areas that do not materially effect the shape and strength of the shell are permitted;  (d) Abnormal (B quality). A shell that may be somewhat unusual or decidedly misshapen or faulty in soundness or strength or that may show pronounced ridges or thin spots.  (8) Terms descriptive of the air cell:  (a) Depth of air cell (air space between shell membranes, normally in the large end of the egg). The depth of the air cell is the distance from its top to its bottom when the egg is held air cell upward;  (b) Free air cell. An air cell that moves freely toward the uppermost point in the egg as the egg is rotated slowly;  (c) Bubbly air cell. A ruptured air cell resulting in one or more small separate air bubbles usually floating beneath the main air cell.  (9) Terms descriptive of the white:  (a) Clear. A white that is free from discolorations or from any foreign bodies floating in it. (Prominent chalazas should not be confused with foreign bodies such as spots or blood clots.)  (b) Firm (AA quality). A white that is sufficiently thick or viscous to prevent the yolk outline from being more than slightly defined or indistinctly indicated when the egg is twirled. With respect to a broken-out egg, a firm white has a Haugh unit value of 72 or higher when measured at a temperature between 45 degrees and 60 degrees F.  (c) Reasonably firm (A quality). A white that is somewhat less thick or viscous than a firm white. A reasonably firm white permits the yolk to approach the shell more closely which results in a fairly well defined yolk outline when the egg is twirled. With respect to a broken-out egg, a reasonably firm white has a Haugh unit value of 60 to 72 when measured at a temperature between 45 degrees and 60 degrees F.  (d) Weak and watery (B quality). A white that is weak, thin and generally lacking in viscosity. A weak and watery white permits the yolk to approach the shell closely, thus causing the yolk outline to appear plainly visible and dark when the egg is twirled. With respect to a broken-out egg, a weak and watery white has a Haugh unit value lower than 60 when measured at a temperature between 45 degrees and 60 degrees F.  (e) Blood spots or meat spots. Small blood spots or meat spots (aggregating not more than 1/8 inch in diameter) may be classified as B quality. If larger, or showing diffusion of blood into the white surrounding a blood spot, the egg shall be classified as Loss. Blood spots shall not be due to germ development. They may be on the yolk or in the white. Meat spots may be blood spots which have lost their characteristic red color or tissue from the reproductive organs.  (10) Terms descriptive of the yolk:  (a) Outline slightly defined (AA quality). A yolk outline that is indistinctly indicated and appears to blend into the surrounding white as the egg is twirled.  (b) Outline fairly well defined (A quality). A yolk outline that is discernible but not clearly outlined as the egg is twirled.  (c) Outline plainly visible (B quality). A yolk outline that is clearly visible as a dark shadow when the egg is twirled.  (d) Enlarged and flattened (B quality). A yolk in which the yolk membranes and tissues have weakened and/or moisture has been absorbed from the white to such an extent that the yolk appears definitely enlarged and flat.  (e) Practically free from defects (AA or A quality). A yolk that shows no germ development but may show other very slight defects on its surface.  (f) Serious defects (B quality). A yolk that shows well developed spots or areas and other serious defects, such as olive yolks, which do not render the egg inedible.  (g) Clearly visible germ development (B quality). A development of the germ spot on the yolk of a fertile egg that has progressed to a point where it is plainly visible as a definite circular area or spot with no blood in evidence.  (h) Blood due to germ development. Blood caused by development of the germ in a fertile egg to the point where it is visible as definite lines or as a blood ring. Such an egg is classified as inedible. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 632 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 632.811 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 24-2004, f. & cert. ef. 10-28-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 7-1982, f. & ef. 7-9-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 1079(3-76), f. & ef. 2-3-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 977(10-72), f. 8-28-72, ef. 9-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
