



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Office of Community Colleges and Workforce Development - Chapter 589 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 PROGRAMS 
 589-007-0160 
 Menu of Core Apprenticeship Services and Supplemental Apprenticeship Services 
 
 (1) Core apprenticeship services will include the services provided by Oregon community colleges to registered apprentices and local joint committees when the registered apprentice is enrolled for one or more related training courses at the community college and the related training courses meet the community college's content, minimum class size, and other requirements for such courses.  (2) The menu of core apprenticeship services will include the core apprenticeship services and the definition of each service as have been identified by the community colleges in collaboration with the Office. Core apprenticeship services will include:  (a) Registration services for registered apprentices;  (b) Academic credit for apprenticeship related training instruction under the direct control of the college utilizing the same academic credit and instructional guidelines used for other similar college courses;  (c) Opportunities for registered apprentices to complete requirements to achieve an associate degree;  (d) Registered apprentices with access to the same college services and facilities (financial aid eligibility, counseling, advising, library access, etc.) as other similarly enrolled students;  (e) Inservice and professional development opportunities for apprenticeship related training instructors that are consistent with opportunities provided for other similarly hired college instructors;  (f) Classroom and laboratory facilities for apprenticeship relating training courses either at the college facility or at another facility as agreed upon by the college and the local joint committee; and  (g) When appropriate authorization has been provided by the registered apprentice, apprenticeship related training class lists and related training attendance records for registered apprentices will be provided to local joint committees.  (3) Community colleges identified on the Annual List of Community College Related Training Providers may also provide a listing of supplemental apprenticeship services available to local joint committees from their individual community college. Supplemental apprenticeship services include services that may be available at an individual community college on a fee for service basis to support the local joint committee in its effort to provide effective services to registered apprentices.  (4) Supplemental apprenticeship services to be provided by a community college to a local joint committee will be provided through a contract between the parties. Such contracts will include but not be limited to the identification of supplemental apprenticeship and other services to be provided, fees for services provided and length of services to be provided.  (5) Supplemental apprenticeship services that may be provided by a community college on a fee for services basis through a contract between the community college and the local joint committee may include but are not limited to:  (a) Administrative support to the local joint committee;  (b) Posting meetings;  (c) Maintenance of equal opportunity records;  (d) Maintenance of records required by state and federal apprenticeship regulations;  (e) Computer technical support;  (f) Taking and distributing minutes for or on behalf of the local joint committee;  (g) Marketing/promotion;  (h) Grant proposal preparation and administration of grants;  (i) Assessing transferability of related training coursework;  (j) Completion of applicant rating forms; and  (k) End of the term recommendations. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 341.290 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 351.735, 341.665, 660.157, 660.160, 660.167 & 660.190 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 5-2015, f. & cert. ef. 10-30-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 5-2003, f. & cert. ef. 10-20-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 2-2003, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
