



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 
 581-017-0478 
 Criteria 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Education shall establish a request for proposal, application, or direct grant solicitation and approval process to be conducted each biennium for which CTE Summer Youth Engagement Program Grant funds are available.  (2) Requests for funding shall be evaluated and scored based on the following criteria:  (a) Summer programs serving students in grades 7 and 8 must:  (A) Focus on exploration of careers that include high wage and high demand occupations;  (B) Expose students to related CTE programs of study available at a student’s future high school; and  (C) Include opportunities for students to interact with adults involved in related high wage and high demand occupations.  (b) Summer programs serving students who are in high school and have participated in a CTE course during the school year must:  (A) Focus on intensive CTE study addressing academic and technical attainment;  (B) Create opportunities for students to earn industry credentials or dual credit or both when appropriate;  (C) Align with CTE Programs of Study available in a student’s high school;  (D) Include student interactions with related local businesses and industries; and  (E) Expose students to related educational opportunities through community colleges, universities, or apprenticeship programs.  (c) The Department of Education shall give priority to proposals that meet the minimum criteria and address the needs of historically underserved students.  (3) The Department of Education shall allocate funds for the grant program based on the evaluation of the grant application and the following considerations:  (a) Geographic location of districts to insure geographic diversity within the recipients of grant program funds throughout the state;  (b) Districts who have an achievement gap between subgroup populations; and  (c) Districts who have a high level of students in poverty. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2015 OL Ch. 763 & Sec. 1 (Enrolled HB 3072) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2015 OL Ch. 763 & Sec. 1 (Enrolled HB 3072) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 21-2016, f. & cert. ef. 3-22-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
