



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 DEFINITIONS 
 230-010-0005 
 Other Definitions
 
 
 For purposes of OAR Division 230, the following definitions apply: 

   

 (1) “Amateur unarmed combat sports competitor” means a competitor who participates in any unarmed combat sports and who has never received a purse for competing in an unarmed combat sports event. 

 (2) “Anti-Doping violation” means any violation of the provisions Division 20. 

 (3) "Authorized representative of the superintendent" means an individual assigned by the superintendent of the Oregon State Police to regulate an event for purposes of ensuring compliance with the requirements of statute and rule. 

 (4) “Bout” means a competition between two unarmed combat sports competitors where rounds are separated by designated rest periods. 

 (5) “Boxing” means a competition between competitors who fight with their fists.  Their hands are protected by gloves or mittens fashioned of leather or similar material. 

 (6) “Commission” means the Oregon State Athletic Commission of the Oregon Department of State Police. 

 (7) “Competitor” means a person who competes in  an unarmed combat sports event. 

 (8) “Conflict of Interest” means a situation in which a private interest may influence a person’s judgment in the performance of his or her duty.  A conflict of interest includes, but is not limited to, the following: 

 (a) Conduct or circumstances that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that the person is biased;  

 (b) Acceptance of compensation, except as provided for in OAR 230, for services rendered as part of the person’s duties.  

 (c) Participation in business being transacted by any person in which the person’s spouse or child has a financial interest.  

 (d) Use of a person’s position, title, or authority associated with it in a manner designed for personal gain or benefit;  

 (e) Demonstration, through work or action in the performance of the person’s duties, of   preferential attitude or treatment toward another person.    

 (9) “Disqualification” means that due to an intentional foul or fouls, a referee may disqualify a competitor. 

 (10) “Doping Control” means all steps and processes involved in the drug testing of unarmed combat sports competitors, from test distribution planning through the ultimate disposition of any appeal, including, without limitation, the collection and handling  of a sample or specimen, laboratory analysis, therapeutic use exemptions, results management functions and hearings. 

 (11) A “Draw” is when the judges’ score cards result in a three way tie. 

 (12) “Event Administrator” means the director of the Oregon State Athletic Commission, referred to as the “administrator” in ORS 463.125. 

 (13) “In-competition” means the period from the start of the weigh in of an unarmed combat sports event in which an unarmed combat sports competitor is scheduled to compete, and ending at the time that the process of collecting post-event samples or specimens from unarmed combat sports competitors is completed, or the event has concluded. 

 (14) “Inspector” means an individual licensed as an inspector by the superintendent of the State Police for purposes of providing on-site regulation at an event.  

 (15)  “Key Person” is a person that may not have an ownership stake in a promotion or AAO, but is permitted by the promotion or AAO to be the lead contact person at an event and make decisions pertaining to the event on behalf of the promotion or AAO for an unarmed combat sports or entertainment wrestling event. 

 (16) “Kickboxing” means a competition between competitors who fight with their fists and feet.  Their hands are protected by gloves or mittens fashioned of leather or similar material. 

 (17) “Majority Decision” means that two judges score in favor of one competitor and one judge has scored the bout as a draw. 

 (18) “Majority Draw” is when two judges score the bout a draw and one judge has declared a winner. 

 (19) “Marker” means a compound, a group of compounds or a biological variable that indicates the use of a prohibited substance or prohibited method. 

 (20) “Metabolite” means any substance produced by a biotransformation process. 

 (21) “Medical Disqualification” means a competitor is unable to compete in the scheduled bout,  if prior to the scheduled bout, it is determined, by medical personnel or an authorized representative of the superintendent,  that a competitor does not meet the standards or requirements of one or more criteria from the pre-fight physical, weigh-in, or medical history questionnaire. A medical disqualification  is not an action on the competitor’s license.  

 (22) “Medical Suspension” is a period of time during which a competitor is ineligible to compete based on the results of the post-fight medical examination  following a bout as determined by medical personnel. A medical suspension is not an action on a competitor’s license. 

 (23) “Mixed Martial Arts” means a competition between competitors, the rules of which allow two mixed martial arts competitors to attempt to achieve dominance over one another by utilizing a variety of techniques including, but not limited to, striking, grappling and the application of submission holds.  Mixed Martial Arts does not include martial arts such as tae kwon do, karate, kempo karate, kenpo karate, judo, sumo, jujitsu, submission wrestling, submission grappling or kung fu when exhibited independently of one another. 

 (24) “Muay Thai” means a competition between two competitors who fight with any part of the hand, elbow, knee, shin, and any part of the foot in which the competitors’ hands are protected by gloves or mittens fashioned of leather or similar material. 

 (25) “No Contest” is the outcome of a bout due to an unintentional foul which causes injury and the bout is continued, but is later stopped because of the initial foul OR if the injury from an unintentional foul causes injury that requires the bout to be stopped, but enough rounds have been completed to allow a win for the competitor ahead on the judges’ score cards. 

 (26) “Out-of-competition” means any period during which an unarmed combat sports competitor is not in-competition. 

 (27) "Purse" means the monetary remuneration or any other remuneration a competitor receives for participating in a bout. 

 (28) “Prohibited List” means the prohibited list adopted by reference in Division 230-020-0450 of this regulation. 

 (29) “Prohibited substance” means any substance, or class of substances, identified as prohibited on the prohibited list. 

 (30) "Referee" means an individual licensed as a referee by the Superintendent of the Oregon State Police who is responsible for the safety of competitors within the fenced area or ring during a bout. 

 (31) “Rest period” means the time between rounds of an unarmed combat sports bout. 

 (32) “Round” means a two-, three- or five- minute time periods of unarmed combat sports bout separated by one- minute rest periods. 

 (33) “Sanctioned drug testing organization” means an organization sanctioned by the Commission pursuant to Division 230-020-0450 of this regulation to administer a drug testing program on behalf of the commission or a promoter.  

 (34) “Sample or specimen” means any biological material collected for the purposes of doping control. 

 (35) “Second” means a person who provides assistance to unarmed combat sports  competitors during an event. Seconds working with professional unarmed combat sports competitors shall be licensed as a second by the Superintendent of the Oregon State Police. 

 ( 36) “Sell” means to transfer possession and ownership of goods or other property for money or something of equivalent value. 

 (37)  “Split Decision” means that two judges score in favor of one competitor, while one judge scores in favor of the other. 

 (38)  “Submission” is when one competitor notifies the referee that said competitor no longer wishes to continue the bout. A licensed second for a competitor may notify the referee that said competitor is not fit to continue the bout by stepping onto or standing at the apron. 

 (39) “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the Oregon Department of State Police. 

 (40) “ Technical Draw” means that in the case of an intentional violation which causes injury AND the bout is continued, but is later stopped because of the initial foul, the referee should stop the bout and give a TKO Draw if the scores are equal or if the ruled competitor is behind on the judges’ scorecards. 

 (41) “Technical Knockout” is when a referee orders the bout stopped because it is determined that one competitor is not fit to continue, or one competitor is unable to answer the bell for the upcoming round or is so badly injured or cut that the referee or medical personnel  determine that the competitor is not fit to continue.  

 (42) “Technical Decision” means that in the case of an intentional foul which causes injury AND the bout is continued, BUT is later stopped because of the initial foul, the referee should declare a victory or win for the fouled competitor if said competitor is ahead on the judges’ scorecards OR if a bout cannot continue due to an unintentional foul but enough rounds have been completed, the referee shall declare a win for the competitor ahead on the judges’ score cards. 

 (43) "Timekeeper" means an individual licensed as a timekeeper by the Superintendent of the Oregon State Police who is responsible for keeping time during a bout. 

 (44) Unanimous Decision means that all three judges of a bout score in favor of one competitor. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.113 & 463.015 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 2-2018, amend filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 5-2008, f. 6-12-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BWC 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 4-8-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
