



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 88 COMMUNITY SOLAR PROGRAM RULES 
 860-088-0150 
 Renewable Portfolio Standards and Renewable Energy Certificates 
 
 (1) Megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions will be deducted from the amount of electricity sold by the electric company to retail electricity consumers for purposes of calculating the electric company’s renewable portfolio standard under ORS 469A.052.  (2) All claims to environmental, economic, and social benefits associated with megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions, including any renewable energy certificates, must remain with the participants.  (3) Registration with the Western Renewable Energy Generation Information System (WREGIS) is required. For any project that is 360 kilowatts in aggregate size or less, the Project Manager may request with its application for project pre-certification a waiver from the requirement to register with WREGIS.  (4) If a project is registered with WREGIS, the Project Manager must:  (a) Maintain sub-accounts associated with the renewable energy certificates owned by participants and retire those renewable energy certificates annually on behalf of participants;  (b) Report annually to the Commission the retirement of renewable energy certificates on behalf of participants; and  (c) Report annually to the Commission the sale of any renewable energy certificates generated by the project sold as of a result of a contract for the unsold or unsubscribed portion of project generation. The report must include adequate information for the Commission to verify that any renewable energy certificates owned by participants were not sold.  (5) If a project is granted a waiver from the requirement to register with WREGIS, the Project Manger must:  (a) Disclose in the contracting documents with participants that the project will not create and retire renewable energy certificates on their behalf; and  (b) Provide an attestation at the time of project pre-certification that all renewable energy attributes associated with megawatt hours of electricity associated with participant ownership interests or subscriptions are being claimed solely by project participants. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
