



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS UNDER GORGE COMMISSION ORDINANCES 
 350-070-0140 
 Hearing 
 
 (1) The hearing before the Commission shall be "de novo" but shall include the record submitted by the Executive Director.  (2) Conduct of hearing:  (a) The hearing shall be conducted in the following order:  (A) The Executive Director shall briefly summarize the decision on appeal and any recommendation if different from the decision on appeal;  (B) The appellant shall present its evidence including that of any witnesses;  (C) Any person supporting the appellant shall present his or her testimony and evidence in support of the appellant;  (D) Any person opposing the appellant shall present his or her testimony and evidence opposing the appellant;  (E) Any person who wishes to offer evidence or testify but neither supports nor opposes the appellant shall present his or her testimony.  (F) The Executive Director may respond to the testimony and evidence presented raised by the testimony and evidence presented by the written and oral testimony, including exhibits.  (G) The appellant shall be allowed to present rebuttal evidence limited to the specific issues raised by the testimony and evidence presented by the written and oral testimony, including exhibits, and the Executive Director;  (H) The applicant, if different than the appellant and if an intervenor, shall be allowed to present rebuttal evidence limited to the specific issues raised by the testimony and evidence presented by the written and oral testimony, including exhibits, and the Executive Director.  (b) The appellant and members of the Gorge Commission may ask questions orally of the persons testifying. Any other person who desires to ask a question shall submit that question in writing to the Chair of the Commission, who shall ask the question on behalf of the person. The Chair of the Commission may choose not to ask any question that is repetitious, unduly prejudicial, or unrelated to the testimony and issues raised in the appeal. The Chair of the Commission may also limit the number of questions, including from members of the Commission and the appellant to ensure hearings proceed on schedule with the Commission’s agenda.  (c) Any member of the Commission may question any person testifying, including witnesses;  (d) The burden of presenting evidence in support of a fact or proposition rests on the proponent of the fact or proposition;  (e) The Commission may continue a hearing, may leave open the record for submission of additional evidence necessary to address issues raised at the hearing, and may set time limits for any hearing, including time limits for oral presentations;  (f) Exhibits shall be marked to identify the person offering the exhibits. The Appellant shall mark his or her exhibits as "Appellant’s Exhibit (n)." All other participants shall mark their exhibits as "(PARTICIPANT’S NAME’s) Exhibit (n)." The exhibits shall be preserved by the Commission as part of the record.  (3) Evidentiary Rules:  (a) Evidence of a type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in conduct of their serious affairs shall be admissible.  (b) Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.  (c) All evidence not objected to, shall be received by the Commission, subject to the Commission's power to exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious matter.  (d) Evidence objected to may be received by the Commission. The Chair of the Commission shall rule on all offers of evidence, including objections to testimony. Rulings on the admissibility of such evidence, if not made at the hearing, shall be made at or before the time a final order is issued. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 U.S.C. § 544c(b) & 16 U.S.C. § 544m(a)(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 2-2003, f. 6-23-03, cert. ef. 8-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 4-1994, f. 12-22-94, cert. ef. 1-23-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 4-1993, f. & cert. ef. 8-4-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-1993(Temp), f. 5-6-93, cert. ef. 6-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
