



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 58 PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES 
 734-058-0020 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in OAR 734-058-0010 through 734-058-0080, the following definitions apply:  (1) “Applicant” means the individual or individuals, corporation, company, firm, business, partnership, organization or agency named in and signing the Permit and to whom the Permit is issued.  (2) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT).  (3) “DM” means the ODOT District Manager or designee. DMs are responsible for highway maintenance, operations and issuing permits for use of Right of Way for all State highways within a specific geographic area or “District.”  (4) “General Provisions” means those provisions attached and made part of an issued Permit, which are generally applicable to all Permits. General Provisions are superior to any Standard or Special Provisions in a Permit if there is a conflict between them.  (5) “MUTCD” means Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.  (6) “Oregon Temporary Traffic Control Handbook” means a guide for traffic control operations of three days or less based upon the MUTCD.  (7) “Pedestrian Activity” or “Activity” means any planned activity that brings together a community or group of people for an expressed purpose, including soliciting contributions, business, or interest from motorists using the highway provided the activity does not impede traffic or cause a traffic hazard.  (8) “Permit” means the application as a fully executed form signed, issued and controlled by the DM on behalf of the State of Oregon, Department of Transportation, and allowing Applicant to conduct a Pedestrian Activity and all provisions and exhibits attached to the Permit as deemed necessary by the DM. A Permit does not convey any land right or easement.  (9) “Right of Way” means the entire width of real property delineated by property lines along each side of the highway, including the paved surface, shoulders, ditches and other drainage facilities, and all other highway facilities or lands within the boundaries of the right of way lines used for the operation of the highway.  (10) “Special Provisions” means those specific provisions under the heading “Special Provisions” which when attached to are made part of, and are unique to, the Permit. Special Provisions are subordinate to General Provisions and superior to Standard Provisions, if they are in conflict.  (11) “Standard Provisions” means provisions with standard wording under the heading “Standard Provisions” which are attached to and made part of the Permit. Standard Provisions are subordinate to General Provisions and Special Provisions if they are in conflict. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 814.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 814.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 8-2008, f. & cert. ef. 8-26-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
