



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 POLICY, PURPOSE, AND DEFINITIONS 
 166-005-0010 
 Definitions for Divisions 5 through 475 
 
 As used in these rules, "photocopy", "political subdivision", "public record", "public writings", and "state agency" are defined by ORS 192. As used in these rules unless otherwise required by context:  (1) "Accession" means to take into physical custody a group of records or other materials and to formally document their receipt.  (2) "Agency" when used alone means either a state agency or a political subdivision.  (3) "Exempt records" are public records that do not need to be disclosed under ORS 192.410.  (4) "Excluded records" are records which are excluded from the definition of public records by ORS 192.005(5) or other state or federal laws or rules.  (5) “Hard Copy” means a printout of data stored in a computer.  (6) "Local agency" means any officer, department, board, commission or institution created by or under the jurisdiction of a political subdivision of this state.  (7) "Official copy" is that version of a public record that has been designated by the agency as the record of a transaction or event, and which is subject to the requirements of laws, rules and the records retention schedule authorized by the State Archivist.  (8) "Permanent" public records are those deemed worthy of permanent preservation by the State Archivist and the official copy of permanent records must be retained in paper or in microfilm.  (9) "Records Management" means the planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting and other managerial activities involving the life cycle of information, including creation, maintenance (use, storage, retrieval) and disposal, regardless of physical form. Records management procedures are used to achieve adequate and proper documentation of state policies and transactions and effective and economical management of agency and organizational operations.  (10) "Records Officer" refers to the person designated by a state agency or political subdivision in accordance with ORS 192.105(2)(a). Records Officers organize and coordinate the agency’s Records Management Program. Records Officers also serve as their agency’s primary liaison with the State Archivist and receive training from the State Archivist in performing their duties. Typical duties include planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting the program, and other activities involving the life cycle of information including records scheduling, retirement, storage and destruction.  (11) "Record series" is an itemized listing on a records retention schedule which identifies a single record or a group of records for purposes of retention and disposition.  (12) "Records Retention Schedule" means a document produced and approved by the State Archivist listing the length of time a record needs to be kept for administrative, legal, fiscal or historic purposes. For state agencies this time represents both the minimum and maximum length of time a record must be kept. A records retention schedule approved by the State Archivist is an agency’s legal authorization to destroy public records. The State Archivist writes two types of records retention schedules. The first is a special schedule that is written for records unique to an agency, and the second is a general schedule representing those records that are common to most agencies.  (13) "Retention Period" means the length of time a public record must be retained as authorized by an applicable records retention schedule produced and approved by the State Archivist. Retention periods for state agency records are both a minimum and maximum retention meaning that the records must be destroyed when the retention has been met as long as there is no pending litigation and all audit requirements have been satisfied. Retention periods for local governments are required minimums only.  (14) "Security Copy Depository" is a storage and retrieval facility operated by the State Archivist for security copies of microfilm for state and local agencies. The depositing agency maintains custody of the records and all requests for access to the stored records are made through authorized persons of that agency.  (15) “Special District” is any unit of local government other than a city, county, state agency, board, commission, school, school district, educational service district, college, or university.  (16) "State Archivist" is the public employee who serves under the Secretary of State and who administers the Archives Division which operates the State Archives, the State Records Center and the Security Copy Depository (ORS 192 and 357).  (17) "State Records Center" is a storage and retrieval facility operated by the State Archivist for inactive records of state agencies. The depositing agency maintains custody of the records and all requests for access to the stored records are made through authorized persons of that agency. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 2-25-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 9-2009, f. & cert. ef. 10-15-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1996, f. 4-9-96, cert. ef. 4-15-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1988, f. & cert. ef. 10-20-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-1986, f. & ef. 3-17-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 5, f. 12-30-77, ef. 1-1-78 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
