



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 26 SALVAGED VESSEL SUBACCOUNT 
 250-026-0055 
 Vessel Turn-in Program Grants 
 
 (1) Grants are available to public agencies to sponsor a vessel turn-in program. These programs will allow owners to surrender vessels at risk of becoming abandoned or derelict before the vessels damage the environment or become a hazard to navigation.  (2) Recreational vessels, acknowledged by the Board, in danger of becoming abandoned or derelict are eligible for removal through a vessel turn-in grant. The owner of the vessel must:  (a) Surrender the vessel by signing a release of interest on the certificate of title;  (b) Provide the title to the public agency; or  (c) If the title is lost, sign an alternative release of interest document as approved by the Board.  (3) Any public agency may submit a proposal to the Board for a vessel turn-in grant to be funded in part from the Salvaged Vessel Subaccount. Proposals must be submitted in writing by mail, email, or fax.  (4) The proposal for a vessel turn-in program grant must include a description of:  (a) How the turn-in program will be advertised or how boats will be identified for surrender;  (b) The dates and times for any turn-in events;  (c) The location of any turn-in events;  (d) The criteria used by the public agency to determine if a vessel was in danger of being an abandoned vessel or a derelict vessel and was likely to cause damage to the environment or become a hazard to navigation;  (e) A description of how surrendered boats will be removed and disposed of;  (f) An estimate of the number of boats that will be surrendered;  (g) An itemized list of expenses associated with the turn-in program;  (h) The total amount of funds requested; and  (i) Any cash or in-kind match to be provided by the public agency.  (5) The Board will review the proposed vessel turn-in program. Grant decisions will be based upon criteria outlined in 250-026-0055(4)(a)–(i), as well as, funds available in the Salvaged Vessel Subaccount. The Board will provide its decision in writing.  (6) If the Board approves the vessel turn-in program grant, the Board will prepare an Intergovernmental Project Agreement for signature by the parties prior to the grant award. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830.110 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 830.948 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 9-2014, f. 5-12-14, cert. ef. 6-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
