



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 APPLICATION OF THE STATEWIDE PLANNING GOALS TO NEWLY INCORPORATED CITIES, ANNEXATION, AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT ON RURAL LANDS 
 660-014-0040 
 Establishment of New Urban Development on Undeveloped Rural Lands 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, "undeveloped rural land" includes all land outside of acknowledged urban growth boundaries except for rural areas committed to urban development. This definition includes all resource and nonresource lands outside of urban growth boundaries. It also includes those lands subject to built and committed exceptions to Goals 3 or 4 but not developed at urban density or committed to urban level development.  (2) A county can justify an exception to Goal 14 to allow establishment of new urban development on undeveloped rural land. Reasons that can justify why the policies in Goals 3, 4, 11 and 14 should not apply can include but are not limited to findings that an urban population and urban levels of facilities and services are necessary to support an economic activity that is dependent upon an adjacent or nearby natural resource.  (3) To approve an exception under section (2) of this rule, a county must also show:  (a) That Goal 2, Part II (c)(1) and (c)(2) are met by showing that the proposed urban development cannot be reasonably accommodated in or through expansion of existing urban growth boundaries or by intensification of development in existing rural communities;  (b) That Goal 2, Part II (c)(3) is met by showing that the long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences resulting from urban development at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically result from the same proposal being located on other undeveloped rural lands, considering:  (A) Whether the amount of land included within the boundaries of the proposed urban development is appropriate, and  (B) Whether urban development is limited by the air, water, energy and land resources at or available to the proposed site, and whether urban development at the proposed site will adversely affect the air, water, energy and land resources of the surrounding area.  (c) That Goal 2, Part II (c)(4) is met by showing that the proposed urban uses are compatible with adjacent uses or will be so rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts considering:  (A) Whether urban development at the proposed site detracts from the ability of existing cities and service districts to provide services; and  (B) Whether the potential for continued resource management of land at present levels surrounding and nearby the site proposed for urban development is assured.  (d) That an appropriate level of public facilities and services are likely to be provided in a timely and efficient manner; and  (e) That establishment of an urban growth boundary for a newly incorporated city or establishment of new urban development on undeveloped rural land is coordinated with comprehensive plans of affected jurisdictions and consistent with plans that control the area proposed for new urban development.  (4) Counties are not required to justify an exception to Goal 14 in order to authorize industrial development, and accessory uses subordinate to the industrial development, in buildings of any size and type, in exception areas that were planned and zoned for industrial use on January 1, 2004, subject to the territorial limits and other requirements of ORS 197.713 and 197.714. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 8-2005, f. & cert. ef. 12-13-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-17-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 11-1983, f. & ef. 12-30-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 5-1983(Temp), f. & ef. 7-20-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
