



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 71 INSURANCE LICENSING 
 836-071-0148 
 Extended License Expiration Date, Active Military Duty and Other Extenuating Circumstances 
 
 (1) An individual insurance producer who is unable to comply with license renewal procedures due to military service or another extenuating circumstance such as a long term medical disability may request a waiver from compliance with those procedures as authorized by ORS 744.072, as provided in this rule. The waiver may include an extension of the expiration date of the license as provided in this rule.  (2) An individual insurance producer who is ordered by a branch of the armed forces of the United States into active military duty may obtain an extension of the expiration date of the license for the period of time provided in this section. The extended expiration date is established for a license as follows:  (a) By adding the number of days the licensee served on active duty to the date on which the licensee is released from active duty, if the license would otherwise have expired during the period of active duty; or  (b) By adding the number of days the licensee served on active duty to the date on which the license of the licensee expires, if the license would otherwise have expired after the date on which the licensee is released from active duty.  (3) The expiration date of the license of an insurance producer who requests extension of the expiration date of the license for an extenuating circumstance other than being ordered into active military duty under section (2) of this rule may be extended by the Director according to the Director's judgment, as provided in this section. The extended expiration date is established for a license as follows:  (a) By adding the number of days the insurance producer was unable to exercise authority under the insurance producer license to the date on which the insurance producer was once again able to resume duties under the license, if the license would otherwise have expired during the period of the extenuating circumstance; or  (b) By adding the number of days the insurance producer was unable to exercise authority under the insurance producer license to the date on which the insurance producer was once again able to resume duties under the license, if the license would otherwise have expired after the date on which the period of the extenuating circumstance ends.  (4) The extended expiration date established under sections (2) and (3) of this rule is the last day of the month in which the final day of the added period occurs. The date so established shall also be the expiration date for purposes of subsequent renewals of the license.  (5) The fee, continuing education and other applicable requirements for renewal that would have applied for the normal expiration date of a license of an insurance producer described in section (2) or (3) of this rule apply for the extended expiration date. An insurance producer applying for renewal under this rule shall include documentation with the renewal application as follows:  (a) If the reason for the requested extension is that the insurance producer was called to active duty in the military, the insurance producer shall provide a copy of documentation by the branch of the armed forces in which the insurance producer served that shows the period served on active duty or an affidavit, signed by the applicant, that states the period served on active duty.  (b) If the extension is requested for some other reason, the insurance producer shall provide documentation or other evidence of the extenuating circumstances as specified by the Director.  (6) Sections (2) and (3) of this rule apply only to licensees who leave active duty under honorable conditions. This rule does not apply to regular and routine reservist training periods of service. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 744.072 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 8-2005, f. 5-18-05, cert. ef. 8-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 9-2002, f. & cert. ef. 3-18-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-1997, f. & cert. ef. 10-8-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
