



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 APPROPRIATION AND USE OF WATER FOR HYDROELECTRIC POWER AND STANDARDS FOR HYDROELECTRIC APPLICATIONS 
 690-051-0070 
 Applications for Preliminary Permits: Contents and Scope of Evaluation 
 
 All applications for Preliminary Permits shall include information described in this rule. The applicant shall supply the information in sufficient detail to evaluate the potential for cumulative impacts with other proposed, approved and existing projects in the river basin. Information shall also be sufficient to identify interests, issues and areas of concern that require detailed assessment in the application for a License for hydroelectric development. An application shall be deemed incomplete and shall not be accepted for filing if it lacks any of the following required information.  (1) The name and address of the applicant including every person, association of persons, domestic corporation or municipality that has any proprietary right or interest in the project. If the applicant is a municipality, the applicant must submit copies of applicable state or local laws or a municipal charter or any such other appropriate legal authority, evidencing that the municipality is authorized under such laws to engage in the business of development, transmitting, or distributing power.  (2) A description of the location of the project, giving the county or counties within which located and stream or streams from which water is to be appropriated.  (3) The quantity of water to be appropriated.  (4) If a reservoir is to be used in connection with the project, the application shall state the quantity of water to be stored, the maximum surface area in acres, the name of the stream(s) on which the reservoir is to be located or the name of the stream(s) or aquifer from which the stored water is to be collected or both.  (5) The head to be utilized and the number of THP to be developed. The number of THP shall be determined by multiplying the quantity of water to be diverted in cubic feet per second by the vertical head in feet and dividing the product by 8.8.  (6) The approximate location of the point(s) of diversion and the quantity of water to be taken at each point.  (7) The approximate length of the proposed canal, pipeline or other conduit, the approximate location of the proposed power plant and the point where water will be returned to some natural stream.  (8) The approximate height of diversion or storage dams and the material from which they will be constructed.  (9) A legible map to be prepared on U.S. Geological Survey topographic quadrangle sheets showing the general location of the project including all dams, reservoirs, canals, pipelines, forebays, power plants, and streams, and the location of such data shall be given with respect to township and section lines. If on unsurveyed land, the location shall be with respect to projections of township and section lines.  (10) A statement describing the proposed use or market for the power to be developed.  (11) The name and mailing address of all property owners:  (a) Within 300 feet of the project boundary if the project is within an urban growth boundary; or  (b) Within 1,000 feet if the project is outside of an urban growth boundary giving also the amount of land under the adjacent property owners ownership in acres or hectares.  (12) The length of time for which a Preliminary Permit is desired. A Preliminary Permit may be issued for a period not exceeding two years. This period may be extended by order of the Director. An extension may not exceed one year.  (13) An an exhibit, the application must contain a description of the proposed project, specifying and including, to the extent possible:  (a) The number, physical composition, dimensions, general configuration and, where applicable, age and condition, of any dams, spillways, penstocks, powerhouses, tailraces, or other structures, whether existing or proposed, that would be part of the project;  (b) The total estimated average annual energy production and installed capacity (provide only one energy and capacity value), the estimated number, rated capacity, and, where applicable, the age and condition, of any turbines and generator, whether existing or proposed, that would be part of the project works.  NOTE: The energy production figures submitted with the Preliminary Permit are recognized as estimates. The actual values will be established in the draft License application.  (c) Any other information demonstrating how the proposed project would develop, conserve, and utilize in the public interest the water resources of the state. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197, 536.025, 536.027, 537 & 543 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-1993, f. & cert. ef. 5-19-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 12-1990, f. & cert. ef. 8-8-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 14-1986, f. & ef. 10-13-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
