



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 163 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR HEATING OIL TANK SOIL MATRIX CLEANUP SERVICE PROVIDERS AND SUPERVISORS 
 340-163-0070 
 Department Review of Certified Reports 
 
 (1) The Department may review and verify the accuracy of certified decommissioning and cleanup reports using a variety of standard compliance verification methods, including, but not limited to:  (a) Review of certified reports submitted for Department approval;  (b) Field inspection of heating oil tank services at tank sites; and  (c) Inspection of records, equipment, or materials held or temporarily stored at the service provider’s place of business or storage facility.  (2) The Department will document the result of any report review conducted in writing, which includes a brief summary of the report review or inspection results. This information will be provided to both the tank owner and the certifying service provider.  (3) Any enforcement actions taken as a result of a report review will be conducted in accordance with the applicable requirements of OAR 340, division 12.  (4) The Department may reject any decommissioning or cleanup report that has been certified as in compliance with all applicable regulations by a service provider if, but not limited to, any of the following conditions exist:  (a) There is a lack of information or data included with the certified report to support the finding of compliance;  (b) The Department determines that the compliance determination is not accurate based on the information submitted;  (c) Some or all of the supporting documentation does not accurately reflect conditions at the tank site;  (d) Information obtained during a site inspection by the Department may affect the validity of the certification results; or  (e) There is a violation of applicable regulations that has or potentially could affect the validity of the certification results.  (5) For any rejected certified report, the Department may require the service provider or their insurance policy to take specific corrective action(s) that may include additional work at the tank site, including, but not limited to, additional sampling and analysis, contaminated soil removal, or removal of the heating oil tank. Completion of any required additional work must be coordinated with the property owner.  (6) For purposes of determining report certification accuracy, any employee or authorized representative of the Department may enter the tank site or service provider facility at any reasonable time to interview persons, inspect equipment and site conditions, collect samples, take still or video pictures, conduct an investigation, or review and copy records.  (7) To assist the Department in scheduling inspections, service providers must provide information regarding specific projects in progress on any specific day or days upon request by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 466.706 - 466.895 & 466.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 466.706 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 3-2000, f. & cert. ef. 2-17-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
