



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-2300 
 Relating to City Charges, Taxes, and Other Exactions 
 
 (1) A rate-regulated water utility may recover the aggregate amount of all business or occupation taxes, licenses, franchise or operating permit charges, or other similar exactions imposed by any city in Oregon for engaging in business or for use and occupancy of city streets and public ways.  (2) The water utility may recover these amounts up to 3.5 percent of the water utility’s gross revenue as operating expenses from all water utility customers. The utility may collect any remaining amounts in excess of 3.5 percent of its gross revenues on a pro rata basis to customers within the applicable city if separately stated on the regular billings to the customers. "Gross revenues" means revenues received from water utility operations within the city less related net uncollectibles, but do not include proceeds from the sale of bonds, mortgage or other evidence of indebtedness, securities or stocks, sales at wholesale by one utility to another when the water utility purchasing the service is not the ultimate customer.  (3) To calculate the amounts to be recovered under this rule, the water utility may not include:  (a) Permit or similar charges for street opening, installations, construction, and the like if the charges are reasonably related to the city's costs for inspection, supervision, and regulation in exercising its police powers; or  (b) The value of any water utility service or use of facilities provided on or before November 6, 1967, to a city without charge. These services may be continued within the same category or type of use.  (4) This rule does not affect franchises granted by a city on or before November 6, 1967. Payments made or value of service rendered by a water utility must be collected from all customers.  (a) When a franchise agreement existing on November 6, 1967, specifies a different compensation percentage than set forth in section (2), the compensation continues to be treated by the affected water utility as an operating expense during the balance of the term of such franchise.  (b) If a city unilaterally imposes or increases any tax, charge, or other exaction specified in section (2) of this rule during the unexpired term of a franchise existing on November 6, 1967, for use and occupancy of streets and public ways, the water utility must charge the additional amounts on a pro rata basis to local users. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
