



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 APPEALS FROM COUNTY ORDINANCES 
 350-060-0230 
 Reconsideration 
 
 Reconsideration is only permitted as follows:  (1) Within ten days of the service of a final order, any party may file a petition for reconsideration, stating the specific grounds upon which relief is requested and serving it on the Gorge Commission and all parties to the appeal.  (a) No petition for reconsideration may stay the effectiveness of an order.  (b) If a petition for reconsideration is timely filed, the time for filing a petition for judicial review does not commence until the agency disposes of the petition for reconsideration. The agency is deemed to have denied the petition for reconsideration if, within thirty days from the date the petition is filed, the agency does not either:  (A) Dispose of the petition; or  (B) Serve the parties with a written notice specifying the date by which it will act on the petition.  (2) Any party to the appeal may file a response within ten days of service of the petition.  (3) The following factors must be present for reconsideration:  (a) An error has been made in the decision; and  (b) New information is now available concerning the error which through due diligence could not have been acquired earlier.  (4) Unless the petition for reconsideration is deemed denied under subsection (a) above, the petition shall be disposed of by the Commissioners who entered the order, if reasonably available. The disposition shall be in the form of a written order denying the petition, granting the petition and dissolving or modifying the final order, or granting the petition and setting the matter for further consideration without oral argument. Granting the petition for reconsideration shall require approval of two-thirds of the Commissioners who made the original decision. Once granted, subsequent dissolution or modification of the original decision/order requires a majority of the Commissioners who made the original decision.  (5) The filing of a petition for reconsideration is not a prerequisite for seeking judicial review. An order denying reconsideration, or a notice provided for in subsection (b) of this section is not subject to judicial review. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 U.S.C. § 544 et seq. 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 2-1994, f. 5-4-94, cert. ef. 5-16-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
