



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Film and Video Office 
 Chapter 951 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 FILM PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT CONTRIBUTION CREDIT (TAX CREDIT AUCTION) 
 951-003-0003 
 Program Description 
 
 (1) A credit against the taxes that are otherwise due under ORS chapter 316 or, if the taxpayer is a corporation, under ORS chapter 317 or 318, is allowed to a taxpayer for certified film production development contributions made by the taxpayer during the tax year to the Oregon Production Investment Fund established under ORS 284.367 (Oregon Production Investment Fund). 

 (2)(a) The Department of Revenue shall, in cooperation with OFVO, conduct an auction of tax credits under this section. The department may conduct the auction in the manner that it determines is best suited to maximize the return to the state on the sale of tax credit certifications and shall announce a reserve bid prior to conducting the auction. The reserve amount shall be at least 90 percent of the total amount of the tax credit. Moneys necessary to reimburse the department for the actual costs incurred by the department in administering an auction, not to exceed 0.25 percent of auction proceeds, are continuously appropriated to the department. The department shall deposit net receipts from the auction required under this section in the Oregon Production Investment Fund. 

 (b) OFVO shall adopt rules in order to achieve the following goals: 

 (A) Subject to paragraph (a) of this subsection, generate contributions for which tax credits of the maximum allowable under ORS 315.514 Sec. 2(b)(A) are certified for each fiscal year; 

 (B) Maximize income and excise tax revenues that are retained by the State of Oregon for state operations; and 

 (C) Provide the necessary financial incentives for taxpayers to make contributions, taking into consideration the impact of granting a credit upon a taxpayer’s federal income tax liability. 

 (3) Contributions made under this section shall be deposited in the Oregon Production Investment Fund. 

 (4)(a) Upon receipt of a contribution, OFVO shall, except as provided in ORS 315.516 (Funding in lieu of tax credit certification), issue to the taxpayer written certification of the amount certified for tax credit under this section to the extent the amount certified for tax credit, when added to all amounts previously certified for tax credit under this section, does not exceed the maximum allowable under ORS 315.514 Sec. 2(b)(A)  for the fiscal year in which certification is made. 

 (b) OFVO and the department are not liable, and a refund of a contributed amount need not be made, if a taxpayer who has received tax credit certification is unable to use all or a portion of the tax credit to offset the tax liability of the taxpayer. 

 (5) To the extent OFVO does not certify contributed amounts as eligible for a tax credit under this section, the taxpayer may request a refund of the amount the taxpayer contributed, and the office shall refund that amount. 

 (6)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, a tax credit claimed under this section may not exceed the tax liability of the taxpayer and may not be carried over to another tax year. 

 (b) Any tax credit otherwise allowable under this section that is not used by the taxpayer in a particular tax year may be carried forward and offset against the taxpayer’s tax liability for the next succeeding tax year. Any credit remaining unused in the next succeeding tax year may be carried forward and used in the second succeeding tax year, and likewise, any credit not used in that second succeeding tax year may be carried forward and used in the third succeeding tax year but may not be carried forward for any tax year thereafter. 

 (7) If a tax credit is claimed under this section by a nonresident or part-year resident taxpayer, the amount shall be allowed without proration under ORS 316.117 (Proration between Oregon income and other income for nonresidents, part-year residents and trusts). 

 (8) If the amount of contribution for which a tax credit certification is made is allowed as a deduction for federal tax purposes, the amount of the contribution shall be added to federal taxable income for Oregon tax purposes.  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 284.335 & ORS 315.514 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 315.514 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FVO 1-2019, adopt filed 08/26/2019, effective 08/26/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
