



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 STATE APPROVAL PROCESS FOR EDUCATOR PREPARATION PROVIDERS 
 584-400-0170 
 Experimental Programs 
 
 (1) The purpose of experimental licensure, endorsement, or specialization programs is to allow Educator Preparation Providers (EPPs) to develop innovative and creative programs that respond to community, social, and educational needs. Furthermore, it is to encourage collaboration among EPPs and to foster partnerships between EPPs and other educational entities, such as school districts, education service districts, private schools, and non-profit organizations. 

 (2) Term of Experimental Programs: The Commission may provide state recognition for an experimental licensure, endorsement, or specialization program for a maximum of two years. The two-year term may begin from either: 

 (a) The date of the recognition of the program by the Commission; or 

 (b) The start date of the program, as provided by the Commission in the resolution enacting the recognition of the program. 

 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the Commission may approve a term for more than two years, if the experimental program is funded, in whole or in part, by a grant with a term that exceeds two years. 

 (a) The term of the experimental program may not exceed the term of the underlying grant. 

 (b) If the term exceeds two years, the EPP must report to the Commission on the experimental program: 

 (A) Two years from the date of the initial recognition; or 

 (B) On the date(s) provided by the Commission in the resolution enacting the recognition of the program. 

 (4) Requirements for Experimental Programs: To receive state recognition of an experimental program, an EPP must submit a proposal to the Commission that provides: 

 (a) Rationale for the experimental program; 

 (b) Specific variations to Commission-adopted program requirements the EPP is seeking; 

 (c) A description of the innovative and creative program structure and how it will serve community, social, and educational needs; 

 (d) A description of any partnerships, collaborations, or grants involved with the experimental program; 

 (e) Descriptions of proposed educational experiences and settings; 

 (f) A plan for clinical practices; 

 (g) Evidence of institutional capacity to support the program; and 

 (h) A plan for evaluation of program completers. 

 (5) Requirements for Licensure: Candidates completing an experimental program must meet all Oregon licensure requirements. 

 (6) Annual Reports: EPPs must include data and information regarding any state-recognized experimental programs in their annual report(s) to the Commission, as provided in the Program Review and Standards Handbook. 

 (7) Full State Recognition: EPPs must report to the Commission no later than two years following the date of the initial state recognition for the experimental program of the EPP’s intent to either: 

 (a) Request full state recognition of the licensure, endorsement, or specialization program, as provided in OAR Chapter 584, Division 400, State Approval Process for Educator Preparation Providers (EPPs); or 

 (b) Eliminate the experimental program, as provided in 584-400-0090, Elimination of Programs . 

   

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 - 342.430, 342.455 - 342.495 & 342.533 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2018, adopt filed 04/17/2018, effective 04/17/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
