



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 78 CRIME VICTIMS’ ASSISTANCE 
 137-078-0015 
 Distribution of Funds 
 
 (1) The Administrator, or designee during periods of absence or unavailability, is authorized to interpret and apply the criteria for the equitable distribution of moneys disbursed under the Act and these rules. The Administrator, after consultation with the advisory committee established under these Rules (the “Committee”), shall make decisions concerning eligibility of Programs for Funding. The Administrator is also authorized, after consultation with the Committee, to make all other decisions concerning distribution of moneys to counties and cities, including but not limited to, denial of Funding, conditional allocation of Funding when necessary to establish eligibility for Funding, notices and time limits for applications, acceptance of Funding terms, conditions and reports, method of review and role of the Committee, and reallocation of moneys not applied for or disbursed by Programs.  (2) The criteria for the equitable distribution of moneys disbursed under the Act and these Rules to Programs (the “Formula”) is based on the following criteria:  (a) The amount of Funding shall reflect consideration of county per capita population, county crime rates and other similar criteria.  (b) The Formula established for counties will be applied to cities, and be adjusted as necessary to reflect the current percentage of the total of Program Funding the counties have received under the current allocation per 137-078-0010(2)(a). City Programs will only be approved for Funding after consultation with the Committee and after a memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the County and City programs has been executed. The financial impact and Funding considerations associated with adding a new city Program will be considered in the context of ORS 147.227(2)(c) which requires service priority to victims of serious crimes against persons.  (3) The Formula may be revised periodically by the Administrator, following consultation with the Committee to reflect statistical updates relating to the criteria reflected in the formula, and the amount of Criminal Fine Account revenues provided to CVSD’s Criminal Injuries Compensation Account.  (4) Distribution of moneys to Programs and the conditions relating thereto, including availability of monies available for Funding, shall be described in a grant agreement established by the Administrator (“Grant”). The Grant shall incorporate by reference the requirements of the Act and these Rules, and such other terms and conditions which apply. If a Program elects to accept Funding based on the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant, an authorized representative of the Program shall sign the Grant in the manner provided therein, and submit a signed Grant to the Administrator within the timeframe established in the Grant. Upon submission of the signed Grant, the Administrator shall distribute funds to the county or city upon the terms contained in the Grant.  (5) In the event the Administrator, after review of a Program, or otherwise, discovers non-compliance by a city or county with the terms of the Grant, Funds which were allocated to a non-compliant city or county may be reallocated to eligible cities or counties. This will occur by applying the Formula which is applicable to the city or county, to the monies which were originally allocated to the non-compliant Program. A reallocation of Funding shall thereafter be made to Programs which are in compliance with their respective Grants or held in reserve by the Administrator for future Grant allocations. The reallocation of funds derived from the non-compliant Program shall be made in the form of an Amended Award of Funding in the same manner as an initial award of Funding pursuant to a Grant.  (6) In the event Funds have already been disbursed to a Program which is or has been in non-compliance with the terms of the Grant, the Administrator, may adjust or reduce a Program’s allocation in future fiscal years to take into account the Program non-compliance.  (7) If a Program does not expend all of its allocated Funds for the period of time described in the Grant, the Administrator may permit a Program to retain some or all the funds for use in a subsequent Grant. The Program will be required to demonstrate how those monies will be incorporated into the next year’s Program.  (8) Any Program which has unexpended monies pursuant to a fully executed Grant (including an Amended Award of Funding), and which elects to file an objection to a notice of its alleged non-compliance under these rules, shall retain said monies until such time as the filed objection is resolved by the Administrator in favor of the Program. In the event the objection is not resolved in favor of the Program, the Program shall immediately return the monies to CVSD. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 147 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 147.227 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 12-2015, f. & cert. ef. 10-8-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 17-2010, f. 11-29-10, cert. ef. 12-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 14-2010(Temp), f. 7-27-10, cert. ef. 8-2-10 thru 1-28-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 1-1984, f. & ef. 3-5-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 5-1983(Temp), f. & ef. 9-9-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
