



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 31 REST AREA SPONSORSHIP ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SIGN PROGRAM 
 734-031-0015 
 Participant Selection 
 
 (1) Solicited Contributions  (a) Participants will be identified using an open, competitive solicitation process such as a request for proposal.  (b) Solicitations will provide a description of the sponsorship opportunity being offered stating all information pertinent to an understanding of the offer.  (c) When the offer is for a Highway Related Service that includes removal of noxious weeds, a plan approved in writing by the Oregon Department of Agriculture or the appropriate county governing body must be included with the proposal. The plan must include the species of plant to be removed, the method of removal that does not include the use of pesticides, herbicides, or machine powered equipment, and the timing and frequency of noxious weed removal.  (d) Successful Participants will be selected based on a net benefit for the public. There may be more than one Participant providing Contributions in support of a Rest Area or a Rest Area feature; however only one Participant will be selected for the overall sponsorship of a Rest Area. The Rest Area Operator reserves the right to reject any or all proposals if it determines the proposal is not a reasonable value or is not in the public’s best interest.  (2) The decision to solicit Contributions for sponsorship of Rest Areas shall be at the discretion of the Rest Area Operator. The Rest Area Operator may consider factors such as the nature of the offered Product or Highway Related Service and the location of the proposed work in determining eligibility of a Rest Area or Rest Area feature for sponsorship.  (3) A Sponsorship Agreement will be executed by the Participant and the Rest Area Operator. The Sponsorship Agreement will list the specific requirements and obligations of both the Participant and the Rest Area Operator. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Federal Policy 5160.1A, ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 366.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 366.205 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
