



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 WATER DEVELOPMENT LOAN FUND 
 690-090-0019 
 Loan Advisory Board 
 
 (1) The director shall appoint a loan advisory board to review applications made under ORS 541.700 through 541.855 and pursuant to these rules and make recommendations thereon to the director. The members appointed to the board shall be subject to the approval of the commission.  (2) At least five but not more than seven members shall be appointed to the loan advisory board. The board shall be composed of individuals with expertise in and representing interests of one or more of the following: instream flow and watershed enhancement, finance or banking, project development, agriculture, and local government operations.  (3) Before appointing a member to the board, the director shall mail notice to all persons and organizations which have filed with the department a written request to be included on the mailing list maintained for the Water Development Loan Fund program.  (4) Appointments to the board are not limited to individuals submitted for consideration as a result of the solicitation process set forth in (3) above.  (5) Each member shall serve at the pleasure of the director and be appointed to serve a two-year term. The term may exceed two years, at the discretion of the director, until such time as a successor is appointed and qualified. The director may provide administrative facilities and services for the board.  (6) The director shall annually appoint a chair of the board. The chair or chair’s designee shall preside over all board meetings. An affirmative act of the majority of the appointed members shall be required to act on a loan recommendation.  (7) The director shall select a department employee to serve as secretary to the board.  (8) The board shall hold public meetings at the call of the director. The chair and secretary shall set the date, time and place of meetings. The agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the secretary and the chair and shall include all matters to come before the board at the meeting. The secretary shall send the agenda, the staff loan recommendation and any related material to members and the applicant at least one week prior to a meeting.  (9) Meetings may be run informally by the chair. The chair or chair’s designee shall sign all board documents unless a member or the secretary is allowed by a board vote to do so.  (10) The director shall make public notice of each loan advisory board meeting as provided in OAR 690-090-0035.  (11) The board shall hear comments on any matter before it. The board may set time limits on comments.  (12) After its review, the board shall advise the director in writing whether the project complies with OAR 690, division 090 and recommend the amount in which any loan should be made. The director may accept, modify or reject the recommendation of the board. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 541 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 541.700 - 541.855 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 3-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-15-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
