



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 163 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR HEATING OIL TANK SOIL MATRIX CLEANUP SERVICE PROVIDERS AND SUPERVISORS 
 340-163-0030 
 Licensing Requirements for Heating Oil Tank Service Providers 
 
 (1) The Department will issue a license for heating oil tank services to firms who complete and submit a license application to the Department that includes, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) The name of the firm or assumed business name as registered with the Oregon Corporation Division, and address and telephone number of the firm;  (b) The names and addresses of all principals of the firm;  (c) The names and supervisor license numbers and expiration dates of all employees or principals responsible for on-site project supervision;  (d) Proof of insurance as required by OAR 340-163-0050(3);  (e) Current Construction Contractors Board registration number;  (f) General information about any underground storage tank work (regulated or heating oil) performed in Oregon or any other state(s) within the previous year as applicable; and  (g) The required license fee.  (2) The Department will review the application for completeness. If the application is incomplete, the Department will notify the applicant by telephone or in writing of the deficiencies.  (3) Upon approval, the Department will issue a license to the applicant that is valid for twelve (12) months from the date of issue.  (4) License renewals must be applied for and will be issued in the same manner as required for an initial license, except:  (a) The complete renewal application must be submitted to the Department no later than 30 days prior to the license expiration date;  (b) The application must include a list of all heating oil tank site assessments and certified decommissioning and cleanup projects worked on during the previous twelve (12) month period. The list must include, but is not limited to, the name of the property owner, address of the property, date(s) the services were performed, and the type of services performed (i.e. site assessment, decommissioning, cleanup).  (c) The renewal license period will be for twelve (12) months from the expiration date of the previous license issued. If the current license lapses for any reason, the service provider may not perform or offer to perform heating oil tank services during any time between the expiration date and issuance of the renewal license.  (5) If a firm changes its business name, but there are no changes in the corporate structure (i.e. all principals remain the same), a request for a business name change and re-issuance of the service provider license must be made in writing and be accompanied by the required fee for name changes. A copy of the certificate of insurance with the new corporate name must be included. The license period will remain the same as issued to the previous business name.  (6) If the Construction Contractors Board requires that a firm re-register as a new entity, the service provider license issued by the Department will become invalid and the firm must reapply as a new applicant. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 466.706 - 466.895 & 466.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 466.706 & 466.750 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 3-2000, f. & cert. ef. 2-17-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 28-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-6-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
