



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION (CTE) TEACHING LICENSES 
 584-230-0050 
 CTE Endorsements 
 
 (1) Purpose of CTE Teaching License Endorsements: The purpose of a Career and Technical Education (CTE) endorsement on a license is to indicate the CTE areas for which the educator is authorized to teach. Only Commission-adopted CTE endorsements may be added teaching licenses. New CTE endorsements may only be established through official Commission action at a meeting.  (2) The following teaching licenses are eligible to hold CTE endorsements:  (a) Restricted CTE Teaching License;  (b) Preliminary CTE Teaching License;  (c) Professional CTE Teaching License;  (d) Preliminary Teaching License;  (e) Professional Teaching License;  (f) Reciprocal Teaching License;  (g) Teacher Leader License;  (h) Legacy Teaching License; and  (i) Emergency Teaching License.  (3) The following teaching licenses and registrations are not eligible to add CTE endorsements:  (a) American Indian Languages Teaching License;  (b) Charter school teacher registration;  (c) Restricted Teaching License;  (d) Limited Teaching License;  (e) International Visiting Teaching License;  (f) Substitute Teaching License (Already valid to substitute teach in any subject); and  (g) Restricted Substitute Teaching License (Already valid to substitute teach in any subject).  NOTE: Holders of the licenses listed in subsection (3) may be eligible to qualify for a CTE license and endorsement upon completion of the CTE requirements.  (4) To add an endorsement to an existing teaching license, the applicant must complete the ODE-approved CTE application process, which may include completion of a CTE Professional Development Plan. ODE may require the licensed teacher to complete additional work experience or education through the CTE Professional Development Plan and the LCA process.  (5) Out-of-state applicants holding a non-CTE (regular) teaching licenses with CTE endorsement(s) must complete the ODE CTE application process. A CTE endorsement may be added to a Reciprocal Teaching License.  (6) Out-of-state applicants holding a CTE teaching license with CTE endorsement(s) must complete the ODE CTE application process prior to receiving an Oregon CTE license. After completing the ODE CTE application process, the applicant may be eligible for the Restricted CTE, Preliminary CTE or Professional CTE license, depending on the applicant’s qualifications.  (7) The Commission-approved Career and Technical Education endorsements are:  (a) Endorsements in the Agriculture, Food and Natural Resource Systems area include:  (A) Agriculture Science and Technology;  (B) Natural Resources Management; and  (C) Environmental Services.  (b) Endorsements in the Arts, Information and Communications area include:  (A) Publishing and Broadcasting;  (B) Information and Communications Technology; and  (C) Visual, Performing and Media Arts.  (c) Endorsements in the Business and Management area include:  (A) Business Management and Administration;  (B) Finance;  (C) Hospitality and Tourism;  (D) Marketing; and  (E) Culinary.  (d) Endorsements in the Health Sciences area include:  (A) Health Sciences;  (B) Biotechnology and Research;  (C) Therapeutic Services; and  (D) Diagnostic Services.  (e) Endorsements in the Human Resources area include:  (A) Education and Related Fields;  (B) Government and Public Administration;  (C) Human Services; and  (D) Public Services.  (f) Endorsements in the Industrial and Engineering Systems area include:  (A) Construction Technology;  (B) Engineering Technology;  (C) Transportation Technology; and  (D) Manufacturing Technology.  (8) Effective July 1, 2017, new and renewing CTE teaching licenses will be issued the Commission-adopted endorsements as provided in subsection (7). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430, 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 4-2017, f. 6-27-17, cert. ef. 7-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
