



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0010 
 Airport and Seaport Records
 
 
 (1) Airport Certification Records: Series documents certifications, licenses, or permits from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or other federal or state agencies. Records may include documentation bearing directly on the application for issuance or renewal, agency prepared airport certification manuals, certification specifications, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Certification manuals or specifications, permanent; (b) All other records, 2 years after expiration. 

 (2) Airport and Seaport Inspection Reports: Series documents Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mandated inspections by airport staff, and marine operational inspections. Records may include reports of runway, ramp, and taxiway conditions, fire and reserve facilities, bird hazards, wind indicating devices, standby power systems, weather and tide conditions, and lighting. SEE ALSO: Inspection and Occupancy Records; and Fire and Emergency Medical Services Maps. Minimum retention: (a) Reports documenting incidents, 2 years; (b) Self-inspection reports not documenting incidents, 1 year; (c) Federal Aviation reports, 5 years; (d) All other reports, 6 months. 

 (3) Airport Law Enforcement Action Records: Series documents various types of security actions taken by the airport as described in 49 CFR 1542.221. Records may include documentation of discovery of weapons, bomb threats and other acts of terror, and arrests. SEE ALSO: Incident Case Files for records related to actual police reports filed. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (4) Airport Security Program Records: Series documents the agency airport’s objectives, methods, and procedures designed to prevent or reduce illegal activities or interference with civil aviation. Records may include a description of the airport, master security plan, planned improvements, procedures in case of hijackings or bomb threats, security gate information, airport statistics, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Program records described in 49 CFR 1542, permanent; (b) All other records, 2 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 (5) Civil Aviation Registers: Series documents civil airplane registrations as listed by the Federal Aviation Administration to be used for reference by the agency. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (6) Complaint Records, Airport: Series documents complaints or requests related to noise or other aspects of airport operations. Records may include initially received complaints, documentation of actions taken, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after last action. 

 (7) Dredge Placement Records: Series documents the planning, execution, monitoring, and maintenance of dredge fill placement in order to demonstrate compliance with state and federal permits, ensure environmental protection, and support long-term stewardship of dredge placement sites. Records may include site selection records and environmental assessments, permitting and regulatory compliance documentation, geotechnical evaluations, placement tracking and volume logs, post-placement monitoring and site maintenance records, environmental monitoring data (turbidity, sediment quality, etc.), and interagency stakeholder correspondence, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Real Property Transaction Records for records related to terminal berth dredging. Minimum retention: 10 years after disposition of placement site property. 

 (8) Maps, Aviation: Series documents visual, cartographic documentation that aids in airport functioning and issued for reference in the planning process. Records may include maps, plats, charts, field notes, terrain sketches, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (9) Navigational Facilities Maintenance and Operation Reports: Series documents the maintenance and operation of various types of airport navigational equipment. Records may include meter readings and adjustment records, facility maintenance logs, radio equipment operation records, technical performance records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after equipment permanently removed from service. 

 (10) Noise Compatibility Program Records : Series documents agency development of a noise compatibility program to moderate the impact of noise in areas surrounding the airport. Records may include studies, reports, noise exposure and other maps, hearing records, public statements, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Easements, Recorded; and Easements, Unrecorded. Minimum retention: (a) Program records described in 14 CFR 150.23, permanent; (b) All other records, 5 years after program approved. 

 (11) Notice To Air Mission (NOTAM) Reports: Series documents the notification of air carriers as to changes in airport conditions. Records may include NOTAM forms, logs of date and time of issue, messages from airport manager, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 1 year after notice expired. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
