



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Treasury 
 Chapter 170 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 PUBLIC FUNDS COLLATERALIZATION RULES 
 170-040-0040 
 Approval of Bond Anticipation Notes Pledged by Depositories 
 
 (1) Bond anticipation notes issued, sold or assumed by an authority under ORS 441.560 may be pledged as collateral by a depository only after the depository has received written approval from the Office of the State Treasurer (OST). However, the OST will not accept requests for and approve such bond anticipation notes as collateral, unless and until written notice is provided to depositories that, from a date designated in the notice, OST will begin to accept such requests and evaluate the acceptability of such notes as collateral.  (2) After receipt of the notice described above, the depository shall submit a written request to the OST containing the following information:  (a) The name of the note issuer;  (b) The original principal balance of the note;  (c) The current unpaid principal balance of the note;  (d) The maturity date of the note;  (e) Whether the note may be repaid prior to maturity;  (f) The credit rating (if applicable) of the issuer;  (g) The credit enhancement (such as insurance), if any, of the note;  (h) Whether an event of default has ever occurred under the note; and  (i) Whether the issuer has defaulted with respect to the payment of principal or interest on any of its notes or similar obligations within the preceding 10 years or during the period of its existence if that is less than 10 years.  (3) The OST will permit a note to be pledged as security only if:  (a) The issuer has not been in default with respect to the payment of principal or interest on any of its obligations within the preceding 10 years or during the period of its existence if that is less than 10 years;  (b) If rated by a rating agency, the issuer’s general obligations have a credit rating of AA or Aa;  (c) If the note is credit enhanced, the provider of the credit enhancement has a credit rating of AA or Aa; or  (d) OST determines, based on the information submitted to it, that the note is of sufficiently high credit quality that it may be pledged as collateral.  (4) If the OST determines that there is an insufficient market in bond anticipation notes issued, sold or assumed by an authority under ORS 441.560 to provide for the efficient trading and liquidation of such bond anticipation notes, OST will value bond anticipation notes issued, sold or assumed by an authority under 441.560 at seventy-five percent of their outstanding principal amount for purposes of calculating whether adequate collateral has been pledged by a depository with its custodian, as required under ORS Chapter 295. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 295.001(19)(g) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OST 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OST 2-2008, f. 6-27-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
