



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 109 RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING USE OF PARTICLE ACCELERATORS 
 333-109-0010 
 Administrative Responsibilities 
 
 (1) A person at each facility must be designated to be responsible for maintaining radiation safety. This person, designated the radiation safety officer, must be responsible for the following:  (a) Establishing and maintaining operational procedures so that the radiation exposure of each worker is kept as far below the maximum permissible dose as is practical;  (b) Instructing all personnel who work with or near radiation producing machines, in safety practices;  (c) Maintaining a system of personnel monitoring;  (d) Arranging for establishment of radiation control areas, including placement of appropriate radiation warning signs and/or devices;  (e) Providing for radiation safety inspection of radiation producing machines, including operation of all safety devices on a routine basis;  (f) Reviewing modifications to apparatus, shielding and safety interlocks;  (g) Investigating and reporting to proper authorities any case of excessive exposure to personnel and taking remedial action;  (h) Being familiar with all applicable rules for the control of ionizing radiation; and  (i) Terminating operations at the facility because of radiation safety considerations.  (2) No individual must be permitted to act as an operator of an accelerator until such person has:  (a) Received an acceptable amount of training in radiation safety as approved by the radiation safety officer;  (b) Has received copies of and instruction in this division, the applicable requirements of divisions 120 and 111 of these rules and:  (A) Pertinent registration conditions; and  (B) Operating and emergency procedures; and  (C) Must have demonstrated understanding of documents and information required in this rule;  (c) Demonstrated competence to in the use of the accelerator, related equipment and radiation survey instruments which will be employed; and  (d) Been approved by the radiation safety officer. Each operator must be responsible for:  (A) Keeping radiation exposure to all individuals as low as is practical;  (B) Being familiar with safety procedures as they apply to each machine;  (C) Wearing of personnel monitoring devices, if applicable; and  (D) Notifying the radiation safety officer of known or suspected excessive radiation exposures to any individual.  (3) The radiation safety committee or the radiation safety officer must have the authority to terminate the operations at a particle accelerator facility if such action is deemed necessary to minimize danger to public health and safety or property. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 1-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 4-1985, f. & ef. 3-20-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
