



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-0940 
 Signaling and Communications 
 
 (1) Hand signals or audible contact, such as, but not limited to, whistles, horns, or radios, must be used whenever noise, distance, restricted visibility, or other factors prevent clear understanding of natural unassisted voice communications between employees.  (2) A whistle or horn, clearly audible and distinguishable to all personnel in the affected area, must be installed and used on all machines operating as yarders, loaders or tree pullers.  (3) All radio-controlled carriages and motorized skycars must have a warning horn which is sounded when any carriage function is activated.  (4) Standard yarding system whistle signals identified in Appendix 7-A must be used at cable logging operations.  (5) A new yarding system whistle signal may be adopted for an unusual or new situation not covered in the standard whistle signals provided:  (a) The new signal is used only for that specific situation.  (b) All employees are informed of the new signal.  (6) A list of the standard yarding whistles, any new yarding system whistle(s) and control system signals used to activate cable logging systems, machinery and equipment functions must be available at the work site.  (7) Affected personnel must understand the control system signals, hand signals and whistles used to activate equipment and machines.  (8) All audible signal systems, equipment and machinery activation signals must be tested and be fully functional prior to beginning the operation.  (9) Spare transmitters must be guarded against accidental activation.  (10) All personnel must be in the clear before any signal is given to move any log, load, rigging, or turn.  (11) Machine operators must not move any lines, logs, loads or rigging unless the signal received is clear and distinct. If in doubt, the operator must repeat the signal as understood and wait for confirmation.  (12) An audible signal must always be sounded before any line is moved.  (13) Voice communication, except as required by 437-007-0950(1), may be used to transmit instruction and direction to the yarder operator to move rigging and control the movement of logs provided that an audible signal is sounded before any line is moved.  (14) An audible signal does not need to be sounded when yarding logs with grapples if personnel are not exposed to line, log or rigging movement.  (15) When hand signals are used, an audible signal does not need to be sounded when personnel are aware of and not exposed to line, log or rigging movement.  (16) Hand signals may only be used:  (a) In plain sight of the machine operator.  (b) Within 300 feet of the machine operator.  NOTE: Hand signals may be used at any time as an emergency stop signal.  (17) Throwing of any type of material as a signal is prohibited.  (18) Citizens' band (CB) radios cannot be used to activate any signal, machine or process either automatically or by voice.  [ED. NOTE: Appendices referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
