



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-1405 
 Radio Signal Systems 
 
 (1) When space transmission of radio signals is used to initiate any whistle, horn, bell, or other audible signaling device, or when such transmission of radio signals is used to activate or control any machine, material-handling device or other equipment hazardous to employees, the following must apply:  (a) An operational whistle signal must be maintained.  (b) A permit assigning tone frequencies and area of use for each radio unit to be used for the control and activation of any signal, machine or equipment, must be obtained from Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division (Oregon OSHA), by an owner prior to placing the unit in operation. Permits must be issued on the basis of compliance with the criteria contained in Appendix 7-F. [Appendix not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (c) Radio equipment must not be used without displaying a permit as required by this rule. The permit must be prominently displayed on the receiver of the unit or on the transmitter in the yarder for radio-controlled carriages.  (d) Applicants for permits must submit the following information concerning the equipment to the Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon OSHA:  (A) Name and address of applicant;  (B) The assigned radio frequency;  (C) The manufacturer of the unit;  (D) The serial number of the receiver;  (E) The tone frequencies upon which the unit operates;  (F) The intended use or function of the unit; and  (G) The designated area in which the equipment will be used. (See the Radio Signal Permit Area Map in Appendix 7-F.) [Appendix not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (e) Before moving any unit from one assigned area to another, a new permit must be secured from the Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon OSHA. (See the Radio Signal Permit Area Map in Appendix 7-F.) [Appendix not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (f) Users shall notify the Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon OSHA, within 15 days after the radio signaling device is:  (A) Permanently retired (in what manner);  (B) Sold (to whom); or  (C) Stolen.  (g) Upon receipt and approval of a properly completed application, OR-OSHA must issue a permit within 30 days; or if OR-OSHA is unable to issue a permit within 30 days of receipt and approval of a properly completed application, the applicant must be notified of the proposed date of issuance.  (2) Additional systems must be certified in advance as spares, providing they are used only as replacements for malfunctioning systems during the time required to repair the original equipment.  (3) Each radio receiver must have its tone frequencies in hertz (cycles per second), the manufacturer's name and serial number, and the assigned radio frequency clearly and permanently indicated on the outside of the case. When the duration or width of the tone frequencies performs a function, the duration or width must also be permanently indicated on the outside of the case.  (4) Single tone frequency must not be used on radio equipment designed to initiate whistle or other audible signal, or to activate or control any machine, material-handling device, or other equipment hazardous to employees.  (5) All adjustment, repair or alteration of radio signaling devices must be done only by or under the immediate supervision and responsibility of a person holding a first or second class commercial radio operator's license (for either radio telephone or radio telegraph) issued by the Federal Communications Commission. All replacement parts must be of such quality as to cause the unit to meet the minimum performance specifications outlined in Appendix 7-F.  (6) At least one model of each radio system must be tested and certified that it meets or exceeds the minimum requirements for performance as specified in Appendix 7-F of this standard. This model must be a random selection from stock. A copy of such performance report must be signed by the person or persons who tested the unit and submitted to Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon OSHA. [Appendix not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (7) Radio-controlled devices must be tested each day before work begins. If, at any time, any part of the equipment fails to function properly, or if interference, overlap, fadeout or blackout of radio signals is encountered, the system shall not be used until the source of trouble is detected and corrected.  (8) Two or more whistle signal receivers on the same tone frequency is prohibited.  [ED. NOTE: Appendices referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
