



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Real Estate Agency 
 Chapter 863 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 863-001-0020 
 Payment of Fees to the Agency
 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, the following definitions apply: 

 (a) "Electronic funds transfer" (EFT) has the same meaning given the term in ORS 293.525. 

 (b) "EFT — ACH Credit" means the electronic funds transfer from a person’s or entity’s bank account, initiated by the person or entity, and cleared through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network for deposit to the Real Estate Agency. 

 (c) "EFT — ACH Debit" means the electronic funds transfer from a person’s or entity’s bank account, initiated by the Agency and cleared through the ACH network to debit a person’s or entity’s bank account and deposit to the Agency’s account. 

 (2) The Agency accepts payments by EFT or credit/debit card for the following: 

 (a) Application fees for real estate broker, principal real estate broker or licensed real estate property manager licenses. 

 (b) Application fees to renew: 

 (A) Active real estate broker, principal real estate broker, or licensed real estate property manager licenses. 

 (B) Inactive real estate broker, principal real estate broker, or licensed real estate property manager licenses. 

 (C) Escrow agent licenses. 

 (D) Registered business names. 

 (E) Real estate continuing education privider certifications. 

 (c) Application fees to register business names and branch offices. 

 (d) Application fees for licensee name changes. 

 (e) Application fees to transfer real estate broker, principal real estate broker, or licensed real estate property manager licenses. 

 (f) Application fees for the reactivation of inactive real estate broker, principal real estate broker, or principal real estate property manager licenses. 

 (g) Late renewal fees that are in addition to the renewal fees. 

 (h) Application fees to register business names. 

 (i) Application fees for registration as a membership camping contract broker or salesperson, or registration of a membership camping contract. 

 (j) Application fees for real estate continuing education provider certifications. 

 (3) Electronic payments to the Agency shall be made using one of the following methods: 

 (a) Online payment process available on the Agency’s website. A person or entity will authorize the Agency to charge their credit/debit card or debit their bank account using an EFT — ACH Debit through the Agency’s online payment process. 

 (b) EFT — ACH Credit to the Agency’s designated bank account. A person or entity choosing to send EFT — ACH Credits to the Agency’s bank account, shall complete a form provided by the Agency. This form shall be submitted to the Agency to authorize EFT — ACH Credit payments to the Agency. 

 (4) Notwithstanding (3) of this rule, the Agency may grant an exception and accept payment by paper check when a person or entity presents satisfactory evidence of special circumstances.  A request for an exception must be made in writing.  The Agency will review each request on a case by case basis, taking into consideration best interests of the Agency. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 696.385 & Chapter 234, 2017 Laws 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 696.270 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 1-2017, amend filed 11/17/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 8-2011, f. & cert. ef. 11-15-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 4-2011, f. 8-15-11, cert. ef. 9-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
