



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 SURFACE WATER REGISTRATIONS  AND THE ADJUDICATION PROCESS 
 690-028-0027 
 Filings for Federal Reserved Instream Water Rights 
 
 (1) Any Indian tribe or federal agency claiming an instream federal reserved right shall provide the information in OAR 690-028-0025(3) and (5) for each stream reach for which a right is being claimed. A separate registration form shall be filed for each stream reach in which an instream reserved right is being claimed. Each stream reach or lake shall be identified on a Department basin map. The upstream and downstream locations of the reach shall be identified according to the public lands survey system. The purpose or purposes of the instream flow shall be given. If applicable, the species of fish or wildlife to be supported must be identified. Flows requested shall be specified by month in cubic feet per second, elevation of lake surface, or other measurable units as appropriate.  (2) A claimant shall provide supporting documentation of the methods used to estimate water quantities needed to satisfy the purpose or purposes of the reservation. Accepted methodologies for determining habitat needs include, but are not limited to:  (a) Instream Flow Incremental Methodology habitat suitability curves published in a series of technical reports by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service;  (b) The Oregon Method developed by the Oregon State Game Commission (Thompson, K.E., 1972, determining streamflows for fish life, pp. 31–50, in Proceedings of the Instream Flow Requirement Workshops, Pacific N.W. River Basins Commission, Portland, OR);  (c) Forest Service Method developed by the Pacific Northwest Region USDA Forest Service, (Swank, G.W. and Phillips, R.W. 1976, Instream Flow Methodology for the Forest Service in the Pacific Northwest Region, pp. 334–343, in Proceedings of Symposium and Special Conference on Instream Flow Needs, Orsborn, J.F. and O.H. Allman, eds. Vol. II, American Fisheries Society, Bethesda, MD); and  (d) Environmental Basin Investigation Reports conducted by the Oregon State Game Commission between the mid-1960s and the mid-1970s.  (3) The claimant may propose for the Department’s consideration:  (a) A means and location for measuring the instream water right;  (b) A strategy and responsibility for monitoring flows for the instream right; and  (c) Any provisions needed for managing the water right to protect the reserved claim. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 539 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 10-1990, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
