



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 VITAL STATISTICS 
 333-011-0320 
 Preservation of Vital Records 
 
 (1) When an authorized reproduction of a vital record has been properly prepared by the state registrar and when all steps have been taken to provide for the continued preservation of the information, the record from which such authorized reproduction was made may be disposed of by the state registrar. Such record may not be disposed of until:  (a) The quality of the authorized reproduction has been tested to ensure that acceptable certifications can be issued;  (b) A permanent copy of such record has been placed in a secure location removed from the building where the authorized reproduction is housed; and  (c) The original records have been offered to the State Archives.  (2) Such permanent copy described in section (1) shall be maintained in such a manner to ensure that it can replace the authorized reproduction should the authorized reproduction be lost or destroyed.  (3) The state registrar shall offer the original documents from which the authorized reproductions are made to the State Archives. The State Archives shall retain permanently such records and shall adhere to the restrictions in the vital statistics law related to access to such records. If the State Archives declines to place such records in its files the state registrar shall be authorized to destroy the documents. Such destruction shall be in accordance with generally accepted methods for disposition of confidential or sensitive documents.  (4) Microfilm used for preservation shall be manufactured and stored in accordance with the standards established by the State Archives by rule. Redundant copies shall be stored at one or more sites distant from the master copies. Mechanisms for retrieving copies from distant sites shall be documented and periodically tested.  (5) Electronic images of vital record documents shall be indexed for ease of retrieval. Long-term archiving of electronic documents shall follow standards established by the State Archives by rule. The index shall allow for linking of amended or corrected images to the original image. The images shall be stored in a tamper resistant manner and media. The preservation management program shall include the refreshment of storage media to assure integrity and prevent obsolescence on a periodic basis into new formats as they become accepted.  (6) Vital event information stored as electronic data shall be stored in a manner that is both tamper resistant and tamper evident. All changes to information shall be tracked, including the item changed, the user who made the change, the date of the change, and the justification for the change. Back-ups of electronic data shall be made at regular intervals, and copies shall be stored at one or more sites distant from the master copy. Mechanisms and procedures for retrieving copies from distant sites shall be documented and periodically tested.  (7) The preservation management program shall provide for the periodic refreshment of electronic data, to include hardware, software, and coding standards. The program must include documentation of changes in coding structures, provide for testing of converted files to assure data quality, and address associated costs. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 432.295 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 432.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 17-2013, f. 12-26-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
