



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Chapter 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 SCHOOL SAFETY TIP LINE PROGRAM 
 257-095-0040 
 Responsibilities 
 
 (1) Department of State Police is responsible for:  (a) Establishing a statewide tip line for students and other members of the public to confidentially report information concerning threats or potential threats to student safety;  (b) The ownership and management of data entered into the SSTL;  (c) Following all records retention laws and other applicable laws and rules;  (d) Analyzing and interpreting data entered into the SSTL to help schools improve their response to safety issues;  (e) Maintaining strict confidentiality of confidential information received through tips, documents and communications submitted to the SSTL;  (f) Coordinating outreach and programmatic support to schools, school districts, Education Service Districts, law enforcement agencies and service providers involved in or entering the program;  (g) Establishing a process for documenting the closure of tips and ensuring that the process is being used.  (h) Generating analysis, reports and studies. Analysis, reports and studies shall contain only aggregated information and shall not contain any information that personally identifies reporters or any students. Reports may contain aggregated information concerning how referrals were handled by local law enforcement and service providers and the outcomes of the referrals.  (i) Ensuring training materials explain that reporters may make an anonymous report or, if they identify themselves, how their identity is protected and how it may be shared as set out in OAR 291-095-0080(2).  (j) Where possible, incorporate information on behavioral health treatment services standards under OAR chapter 309, division 019 in training and presentation information.  (2) The SSTL vendor contracted by the Department of State Police is responsible for:  (a) Receiving SSTL tips via phone, email, application on a mobile device, website submission and text message as described in OAR 257-095-0060 and processing those tips;  (b) Ensuring adequate staffing of Tip Line Technicians to handle tip volume;  (c) Ensuring SSTL is functional and capable of operation 24 hours per day, seven days per week;  (d) Providing SSTL database access and the ability to extract data for analysis to designated persons authorized by the Department of State Police;  (e) Following up on reported tips and documenting the status of tips through the SSTL;  (f) Prompting schools to provide updated responsible staff and service provider, if applicable, contact information on a regular basis;  (g) Providing physical and online information security protection including administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect assets and data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction.  (h) Ensuring Tip Line Technicians have the requested qualifications, training, and experience in taking crisis calls.  (i) Maintaining a policy and procedure manual that contains specific protocols to be used depending on the nature of the tip as well as general procedures regarding interviews and taking information.  (3) The schools, school districts or Education Service Districts are responsible for:  (a) Determining, keeping current, and providing to the SSTL lists of responsible staff and service providers capable of handling tips relayed to the school, school district or Education Service District by the SSTL;  (b) Verifying the authenticity and validity of received reported threat to student safety or potential threat to student safety;  (c) Forwarding tip information to law enforcement or service providers as appropriate;  (d) Following up on assigned tips, providing information about updates and outcomes to the SSTL to the extent not prohibited by any applicable federal or state confidentiality provisions, and closing tips through the SSTL. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 2016, ch 74 & section 1(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016 & ch 74 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSP 3-2016(Temp), f. 12-13-16, cert. ef. 12-14-16 thru 6-10-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
