



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 FINANCIAL AID TO MUNICIPALITIES (FAM) GRANT PROGRAM 
 738-125-0025 
 FAM Grant Application Criteria 
 
 (1) To be eligible for FAM grant funds, the applicant’s project must meet at least one of the following criteria:  (a) Prevent future deficiencies and preserve existing facilities;  (b) Eliminate existing deficiencies as described in the current OAP;  (c) Modernize the airport by exceeding state or federal minimum standards as stated in the current OAP and identified by FAA Advisory Circulars (AC’s) or other regulations;  (d) Leverage available state and federal funds for airport planning and capital improvements; or  (e) Contribute to the airport’s financial self-sufficiency.  (2) Capital construction projects at airports included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS) must meet current FAA design criteria and grant assurances.  (3) Applicant shall include a project narrative which:  (a) Describes benefits of proposed improvements;  (b) Describes and confirms existence of local airport zoning;  (c) Provides details of future maintenance commitments;  (d) Describes potential for on-airport expansion; and  (e) Shows availability of adequate surface access to the airport.  (4) The applicant shall address the potential environmental impacts of the project by providing:  (a) A written “Negative Environmental Declaration” or a FAA Environmental Checklist to confirm there will be no significant environmental impact (for NPIAS airports).  (b) If an FAA Environmental Checklist is not required for the project, applicant shall certify it will satisfy all federal National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) requirements as required or provide documentation showing there are no state or federal environmental requirements.  (c) If an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is required by the FAA, it shall satisfy the requirements of sections (4)(a) and (b).  (d) If an EIS is required to complete a project, it shall conform to the NEPA requirements.  (e) Airport planning projects are exempt from the requirements of this section, (Section 738-125-0025(4)).  (5) If the application requests funding to develop an ALP or to establish airport zoning, the applicant need not meet the requirements of (1) through (4), but must comply with all other application requirements of these rules.  (6) An application must include a formal certification asserting that all rules and regulations of federal, state and local regulatory agencies pertaining to the airport and the proposed project are known and will be complied with, including particularly those of the following agencies:  (a) Oregon Department of Aviation;  (b) Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development;  (c) Oregon Department of Environmental Quality;  (d) Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife;  (e) Local planning commissions;  (f) Army Corps of Engineers;  (g) Federal Aviation Administration; and  (h) Any other state, local or federal agencies having jurisdiction over the use or environmental regulation of land potentially affected by the application. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 835.035, 835.040 & 835.112 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 835.015, 835.025, 836.015 & 836.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2016, f. & cert. ef. 5-26-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 2-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-24-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
