



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 South Slough National Estuarine Research Reserve - Chapter 142 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 FEES RULES 
 142-015-0020 
 Fee Categories 
 
 (1) The following public uses of Reserve facilities, equipment or services are subject to the fee established pursuant to OAR 142-015-0010:  (a) FACILITIES FEES — The following fees apply to the use of Reserve facilities for events not initiated by the Reserve:  (A) Spruce Ranch Field Housing, including yurts, camping in yard — fees recover costs of field housing, including fuel oil for heating, and all other provided utilities, plus generate a revenue stream toward creating a facilities maintenance fund.  (B) Interpretive Center Auditorium — fees must recover costs of building operation plus generate a revenue stream toward creating a facilities maintenance fund.  (C) Interpretive Center Classroom — fees must recover costs of building operation plus generate a revenue stream toward creating a facilities maintenance fund, as well as pay for maintaining and replacing supplies and artifacts.  (D) Staff time to open, monitor, close and secure facilities — fees must recover salary cost for the building supervisor (including overtime were required).  (E) Event Set-Up, Clean Up — fees must recover salary cost for building supervisor and laborer (including any overtime).  (F) Administrative Support, including supplies — fees must recover salary cost for staff assistance, use of photocopier, paper, telephones, easels, charts and other expendable supplies.  (b) EDUCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL SERVICE FEES: The following fees apply to the use of Reserve educational or technical services, regardless of whether the Reserve initiated the activity. Fees shall include any administrative, facility or equipment costs:  (A) On-site Interpretive Programs — fees must recover salary cost for educator or interpreter services, maintenance costs for facilities, and technical services costs by the Reserve and shall include administrative, facilities, and equipment costs.  (B) Off-site Interpretive Programs — fees must recover salary cost for educator or interpreter services, transportation fuel costs and technical services costs.  (c) EQUIPMENT FEES:  (A) Use of Laboratory Equipment by non-Reserve investigators — fees must recover costs of equipment operation, plus generate a revenue stream for funds needed to repair or replace aging equipment. The amount of the fee shall be the same as the value given to equipment when equipment is used as grant match.  (B) Instructional Materials — fees must recover costs of duplication plus minimal training in uses.  (C) Vehicles, Boats, Motorized Machinery — fees must recover operating costs plus generate a revenue stream for maintenance, replacement and risk fund.  (D) Large Format Poster Plotter — fees must recover cost of supplies plus staff cost of any employee who prints student work on demand.  (E) Equipment Use at Event — fees must recover costs of equipment operation plus generate a revenue stream for repair or replacement of aging equipment.  (F) Equipment Use Off-Site — fees must recover costs of equipment operation plus generate a revenue stream for repair or replacement of aging equipment, creation of a risk fund, the cost of transport (if any) and staff time to provide basic instruction in use and check-out/in activities. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273.554 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273.554(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSNER 1-2008, f. & cert. ef. 4-14-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
