



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 603-001-0180 
 Temporary License Authorization 
 
 (1) Purpose.    In accordance with House Bill 3030, Oregon Department of Agriculture shall issue a temporary authorization to provide the occupational or professional service regulated by the professional licensing board. 

 (2)  Definitions.  

 (a) “Occupational or professional service” means a service:  

 (A) For which an individual must possess a license, certificate or other form of authorization to provide under the laws of this state; and 

 (B) Over which a professional licensing board has regulatory oversight. 

 (b) “Professional Licensing Board” means a state agency or board that licenses, certifies or otherwise authorizes individuals to provide an occupational or professional service. 

 (3)  Temporary Authorization 

 (a) Oregon Department of Agriculture shall issue a temporary authorization to provide occupational or professional services to a person who: 

 (A) Is the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces of the United States who is stationed in this state; 

 (B) Holds a current authorization to provide the occupational or professional service issued by another state and the professional licensing board determines that the other state’s authorization requirements are substantially similar to those of the professional licensing board; 

 (C) Provides to Oregon Department of Agriculture, in a manner determined by Oregon Department of Agriculture, sufficient proof that the person is in good standing with the issuing out-of-state professional licensing board; and 

 (D) Has demonstrated competency, as determined by the professional licensing board by rule, over the occupational or professional service regulated by Oregon Department of Agriculture. 

 (b) A temporary authorization issued under this section is valid until the earliest of the following: 

 (A) Two years after the date of issuance; 

 (B) The date the spouse of the person to whom the authorization was issued completes the spouse’s term of service in this state; or 

 (C) The date the person’s authorization issued by another state expires. 

 (c) An authorization issued under this section is not renewable.  A person may not continue to provide the occupational or professional service unless the person is issued a full authorization under the laws of this state to provide the occupational or professional service. 

 (4) Application for temporary authorization.   Applications for a temporary authorization must be submitted on a form provided by the Department and must be complete and include a certification of good standing from the professional licensing board that issued the original license. 

 (5)  Reporting Requirements.   Not later than December 31 of each year, a professional licensing board shall report, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, to an interim committee of Legislative Assembly related to veterans on the following information. 

 (a) The number of temporary authorizations issued to spouses or domestic partners of members of the Armed Forces of the United States who are stationed in this state; 

 (b) The number of applications for temporary authorization received by the professional licensing board for which the professional licensing board did not issue temporary authorizations, and the reasons for which the temporary authorizations were not issued; 

 (c) The amount of time used to process and issue the temporary authorizations; 

 (d) The professional licensing board’s efforts to implement and maintain a process to issue temporary authorizations; and 

 (e) Any other information relevant to the professional licensing board’s efforts to assist spouses or domestic partners of members of the Armed Forces of the United States who are stationed in this state with obtaining temporary authorization. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  HB 3030 (2019) & SB 688 (2019) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  HB 3030 (2019) & SB 688 (2019) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 10-2020, adopt filed 07/20/2020, effective 07/20/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
