



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 71 LENGTHS OF VEHICLES, LOADS, AND COMBINATIONS OF VEHICLES IN OPERATION WITHOUT NEED OF SPECIAL PERMIT 
 734-071-0050 
 Length Exclusive Devices 
 
 (1) Devices that do not extend more than 24 inches in length beyond the rear of a trailer or semitrailer that are used exclusively to facilitate loading and unloading from the rear of a semitrailer or trailer are excluded from semitrailer, trailer, and overall combination length determination.  (2) Appurtenances at the front or rear of a semitrailer or trailer the function of which is related to the safe and efficient operation of the semitrailer or trailer are excluded from semitrailer, trailer, and overall combination length determination.  (3) Determination of overall length does not include a small forklift designed to be attached to either a motor truck, trailer or semitrailer, which is used exclusively for the loading and unloading of the motor truck, trailer or semitrailer. For purposes of this rule an attachment bracket may be used to secure the forklift providing the bracket does not exceed 24 inches in length. The attachment bracket shall be excluded from measurement provided it carries no load other than the forklift. This forklift may be attached to the rear of a vehicle and not be included in determining overall length if:  (a) On a motor truck, the forklift including attachment brackets do not:  (A) Extend beyond the rear of the motor truck by more than seven feet;  (B) Cause overall length of the motor truck including forklift and attachments to exceed 45 feet; and  (C) Cause rear overhang to exceed three-fourths of the wheelbase of the motor truck;  (b) In a motor truck and trailer combination, the forklift including attachment brackets do not:  (A) Extend beyond the rear of the trailer by more than seven feet;  (B) Cause the overall length of the trailer including forklift and attachment brackets to exceed the otherwise maximum allowable length by more than three feet;  (C) Cause overall length of the combination including forklift and attachment brackets to exceed 80 feet; and  (D) Cause rear overhang to exceed one-third of the wheelbase of the combination;  (c) In a truck tractor and semitrailer combination the forklift, including attachment brackets, do not:  (A) Extend beyond the rear of the semitrailer by more than seven feet;  (B) Cause the overall length of the semitrailer including forklift and attachment brackets to exceed 56 feet; and  (C) Cause rear overhang to exceed one-third of the wheelbase of the combination;  (d) In a truck tractor, semitrailer and trailer combination, or truck-tractor, semitrailer and semitrailer combination (B train), the forklift is attached to the rear of the lead semitrailer or to the rear of the second trailer and the forklift and attachment brackets do not:  (A) Extend beyond the rear of the semitrailer or trailer by more than seven feet;  (B) Cause the overall length of the semitrailer to exceed 40 feet;  (C) Cause the distance between the front of the first semitrailer and the rear of the second semitrailer or trailer, inclusive of the forklift, to exceed 68 feet.  (D) Cause the lead trailer to be shorter than the rear trailer, inclusive of the forklift.  (4) Determination of overall length does not include a motor attached to the front of a concrete mixer truck manufactured prior to January 1, 2000, that is used to turn the mixer drum, including a protective bumper for the motor, that does not exceed four feet in length from the foremost point of the vehicle exclusive of the motor and protective bumper.  (5) Determination of overall length does not include a pump attached to the front of a concrete pump truck manufactured prior to January 1, 2000, including a protective bumper for the pump, that does not exceed two feet in length from the foremost point of the vehicle exclusive of the pump and protective bumper.  (6) No device or appurtenance excluded from length determination shall be designed or used for carrying property. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619, 810.050 & 810.060 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 810.050 & 810.060 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 5-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-20-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TO 9-2001, f. & cert. ef. 12-17-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
