



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 CONSOLIDATED PERMITTING OF MINING OPERATIONS 
 632-037-0070 
 Reclamation and Closure Plan 
 
 The Reclamation and Closure Plan section of a consolidated application shall include but not be limited to the following provisions for the protection of public health, safety, and the environment:  (1) Procedures for the salvage, storage and replacement of topsoil or acceptable substitute.  (2) Provisions for recontouring, stabilization and topsoil replacement of all disturbed areas, where appropriate.  (3) Provisions for the revegetation of all disturbed areas consistent with the establishment of a self-sustaining ecosystem, comparable to undamaged ecosystems in the area of the mine. This shall include but not be limited to seedbed preparation, mulching, fertilizing, species selection, seeding planting rates and schedules. If applicable, the applicant shall include a plan for control of noxious weeds as identified by the Department of Agriculture.  (4) Characterization and management plan for all wastes, including quantity and quality.  (5) Provisions for specifying adequate setbacks from adjacent property boundaries and from surface waters or other resources when necessary to ensure compliance with environmental standards.  (6) Procedures for all impacted or reconstructed stream channels, riparian area vegetation and stream banks to be rehabilitated or restored so as to maximize water retention and to minimize bank erosion, channel scour, siltation, and increased water temperatures.  (7) Provisions for prevention of stagnant water may be required by the Department.  (8) Provisions for the establishment of required slopes, including reclaimed highwalls and in-water slopes.  (9) Provisions for visual screening of proposed operation if the permit area is visible from a public highway or residential area. Techniques for visual screening include but are not limited to vegetation, fencing or berms.  (10) Procedures for the removal or disposal of all equipment, refuse, structures and foundations from the permit area.  (11) Provisions to maintain access to utilities when a utility company right-of-way exists.  (12) Procedures or information for decommissioning mine facilities including but not limited to:  (a) Procedures for ore storage sites to meet decommissioning performance standards for protection of air quality, surface and ground water quantity and quality and living resources and to achieve reclamation requirements;  (b) Procedures for tailing disposal facility to meet decommissioning performance standards for long-term stability, protection of air quality, surface and ground water quantity and quality and living resources and to provide for attainment of reclamation objectives;  (c) Removal of all process chemicals;  (d) Appropriate isolation or removal of waste material; and  (e) Monitoring systems by which the success of the proposed reclamation and closure can be measured for bond release.  (13) An estimate of the total cost of reclamation consistent with the standards imposed under ORS 517.750 to 517.955. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 517.750 - 517.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.971 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 2-1991, f. & cert. ef. 10-11-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
