



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Home Care Commission - Chapter 418 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 PURPOSE AND RULEMAKING 
 418-010-0030 
 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Adoption of Temporary Rules 
 
 (1) Except as provided in ORS 183.335(7), (12), or 183.341, before permanently adopting, amending, or repealing an administrative rule, the Commission shall give notice of the intended action:  (a) To legislators specified in ORS 183.335(15) at least 49 days before the effective date of the rule;  (b) To Individuals in the interested parties lists described in section (2) of this rule for the pertinent OAR chapter or pertinent subtopics or programs within an OAR chapter at least 28 days before the effective date of the rule;  (c) In the Secretary of State's Bulletin referred to in ORS 183.360 at least 21 days before the effective date of the rule;  (d) To other individuals, agencies, or organizations the Commission is required to provide an opportunity to comment pursuant to state statute or federal law or as a requirement of receiving federal funding, at least 28 days before the effective date of the rule;  (e) To the Associated Press and the Capitol Press Room at least 28 days before the effective date of the rule; and  (f) In addition to the above, the Commission may send notice of intended action to other individuals, agencies, or organizations the Commission, in its discretion, believes to have an interest in the subject matter of the proposed rule at least 28 days before the effective date of the rule.  (2) Pursuant to ORS 183.335(8), the Commission shall maintain an interested parties list for each OAR chapter of rules for which the Commission has administrative responsibility, and an interested parties list for subtopics or programs within those chapters. An individual, group, or entity that desires to be placed on such a list to receive notices regarding proposed permanent adoption, amendment, or repeal of a rule must make such a request in writing or by electronic mail to the rules coordinator for the chapter. The request must include either a mailing address or an electronic mail address to which notices may be sent, if requested.  (3) Notices under this rule may be sent by use of hand delivery, state shuttle, postal mail, electronic mail, or facsimile. The Commission recognizes state shuttle as mail and may use this means to notify other state agencies. An email notification under section (1) of this rule may consist of any of the following:  (a) An email that attaches the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Hearing and Statement of Need and Fiscal Impact.  (b) An email that includes a link within the body of the email, allowing direct access online to the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Hearing and Statement of Need and Fiscal Impact.  (c) An email with specific instructions within the body of the email, usually including an electronic Universal Resource Locator (URL) address, to find the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Hearing and Statement of Need and Fiscal Impact.  (d) The Commission may use facsimile as an added means of notification, if necessary. Notification by facsimile under section (1) of this rule shall include the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Hearing and Statement of Need and Fiscal Impact, or specific instructions to locate these documents online.  (e) The Commission shall honor all written requests that notification be sent by postal mail instead of electronically if a mailing address is provided.  (4) If the Commission adopts or suspends a temporary rule, the Commission shall notify:  (a) Legislators specified in ORS 183.335(15);  (b) Individuals on the interested parties list described in section (2) of this rule for the pertinent OAR chapter or pertinent subtopics or programs within an OAR chapter;  (c) Other individuals, agencies, or organizations the Commission is required to notify pursuant to state statute or federal law or as a requirement of receiving federal funding;  (d) The Associated Press and the Capitol Press Room;  (e) In addition to the above, the Commission may send notice to other persons, agencies, or organizations the Commission, in its discretion, believes to have an interest in the subject matter of the temporary rulemaking; and  (f) In lieu of providing a copy of the rule or rules as proposed with the notice of intended action or notice concerning the adoption of a temporary rule, the Commission may state how and where a copy may be obtained on paper, by electronic mail, or from a specified web site. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.602 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.330, 183.335, 183.341 & 410.602 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HCC 1-2014, f. 11-26-14, cert. ef. 12-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
