



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 550 Treatment Foster Care 
 416-550-0030 
 Treatment Foster Care Program
 
 
 A treatment foster care program must be a separately identifiable unit of a larger agency or be an independent agency itself: 
(1) Eligibility: 
(a) The program must meet standards as defined in OAR chapter 416, division 530 to be eligible to be a treatment foster care program; 
(b) Selection of a treatment foster care program will be made by the Oregon Youth Authority based on current need and ability to fund the program. 
(2) Administration: The treatment foster care program must designate an individual who is responsible for the provision and oversight of all essential tasks and services described in these rules. 
(3) Staff: 
(a) Clinical Supervisor's responsibilities/qualifications include: 
(A) Clinical Supervision. The Clinical Supervisor provides regular support, consultation and guidance to the Treatment Specialist. The Clinical Supervisor to Treatment Specialist ratio must not exceed one to five; 
(B) Treatment Planning. The Clinical Supervisor takes ultimate clinical responsibility for the development of a comprehensive treatment plan based on a thorough assessment for each adjudicated youth admitted to the program. This plan must be congruent with and supportive of the case plan developed by the Oregon Youth Authority. She or he supervises ongoing treatment planning and implementation for each adjudicated youth, evaluating all progress reports and treatment plan updates; 
(C) Treatment Team. The Clinical Supervisor oversees and supports the Treatment Specialist as leader of the treatment team and shares ultimate responsibility for team plans and decisions; 
(D) Crisis On-Call. The treatment foster care program provides coordination and back-up to assure that 24-hour on-call crisis intervention services are available and delivered as needed to treatment foster parents, adjudicated youth, and families; 
(E) Qualifications. The Clinical Supervisor must have a graduate degree in a human service field plus a minimum of two years' experience in the placement/treatment of adjudicated youth and families. The Clinical Supervisor must be familiar with clinical research and practice. If the education and experience of the Clinical Supervisor are not recognized, additional clinical consultation will be provided. Clinical consultants must be licensed or otherwise recognized as qualified by the state of Oregon in the human service field. 
(b) Treatment Specialist's responsibilities/qualifications include: 
(A) Treatment Team. The Treatment Specialist takes primary day-to-day responsibility for leadership, training, support and consultation to the treatment team. The Treatment Specialist organizes and manages all team meetings. If the Treatment Specialist is prevented from participation in a team meeting by a crisis or personal leave reasons, the Clinical Supervisor takes over that responsibility. As team leader, the Treatment Specialist manages team decision-making regarding the care and treatment of the adjudicated youth and services to the adjudicated youth's family; 
(B) Treatment Planning. Under the supervision of the Clinical Supervisor, the Treatment Specialist takes primary responsibility for the preparation of each adjudicated youth's written comprehensive treatment plan and of quarterly written updates of the plan. The Treatment Specialist signs off on treatment plans and updates. The Treatment Specialist seeks to inform and involve other team members in this process including treatment foster parents, the adjudicated youth and the adjudicated youth's family; 
(C) Support/Consultation to Treatment Foster Parents. The Treatment Specialist will provide regular support and technical assistance to treatment foster parents in their implementation of the treatment plan and with regard to other responsibilities they undertake. The Treatment Specialist will provide at least weekly contact in person with the treatment foster parent of each adjudicated youth on their caseload. The Treatment Specialist will visit the treatment home to meet with at least one treatment foster parent no less than once monthly; 
(D) Caseload. The maximum number of adjudicated youth that may be assigned to a single individual is 10; 
(E) Contact with Adjudicated youth. The Treatment Specialist or other treatment foster care program staff will regularly spend time, outside the presence of the treatment foster parent, with adjudicated youth in care to allow them the opportunity to communicate special concerns, to make a direct assessment of their progress, and to monitor for potential problems in the current placement. Such face-to-face contact must occur at least twice monthly; 
(F) Support/Consultation to the Families of Adjudicated youth. The Treatment Specialist will arrange for and encourage regular contact and visitation between adjudicated youth and their parents and other family members and provide for or coordinate treatment or training to the family as specified in the treatment plan. The Treatment Specialist will seek to involve the adjudicated youth's parents, when appropriate, in treatment team meetings, plans and decisions and to keep them informed of the adjudicated youth's progress in the program; 
(G) Community Liaison and Advocacy. The Treatment Specialist will determine which community resources are required and how they may be used to meet the objectives of the adjudicated youth's treatment plan. The Treatment Specialist will advocate for and coordinate the provision of such services and will provide technical assistance to community service providers as needed to maximize the benefit of these services to the adjudicated youth; 
(H) Crisis On-Call. The Treatment Specialist or other professional staff, as designated by the treatment foster care program, will be on-call to treatment foster parents, adjudicated youth and their families on an around-the-clock, seven-day-a-week basis; 
(I) Qualifications. The Treatment Specialist will have at a minimum a B.A. or B.S. degree in a human service field plus two years’ direct experience working with adjudicated youth and families, or an A.A. degree with three years’ experience working with adjudicated youth and families. 
(4) Staff Training and Support: Liability Insurance. Professional staff will be covered by liability insurance. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420.810, 420.815, 420.821, 420.825, 420.835, 420.840, 420.888, 420.890 & 420.892 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 11-2023, amend filed 01/10/2023, effective 01/10/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 7-2005, f. & cert. ef. 3-25-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 1-2000, f. & cert. ef. 4-4-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 2-1995, f. 12-19-95, cert. ef. 1-2-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
