



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 SALE OF FOREST PRODUCTS FROM LANDS OWNED OR MANAGED BY THE STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY 
 629-029-0130 
 Contract Cancellation Procedures 
 
 (1) Grounds for cancellation. The STATE may, at its option, cancel a contract, for any material violation of the provisions of the contract. Such provisions generally include, but are not limited to:  (a) Standard terms and conditions included in all contracts;  (b) Product or service specifications;  (c) Delivery or completion requirements; or  (d) Contracted pricing.  (2) Remedies cumulative. No cancellation of a contract shall, unless other remedies are expressly limited by the terms of the particular contract, restrict or abrogate any other remedy available to the STATE that is provided either by law or under the particular contract.  (3) Notice. The STATE will provide the PURCHASER written notice of the grounds for cancellation and its intention to cancel the contract. If the PURCHASER provided a performance and payment bond, the surety may also be provided with a copy of the notice of contract cancellation. The notice may include:  (a) The effective date of the intended cancellation;  (b) Notice of the amount of time (if any) in which the STATE will permit the PURCHASER to correct the failure to perform. The contract may provide contract cancellation procedures that are different from, or in addition to, those provided in this rule.  (4) Contract completion by substitute contractor. If the PURCHASER has provided a performance and payment bond, the STATE may afford the PURCHASER’s surety the opportunity, upon the surety’s receipt of a PURCHASER’s contract cancellation notice, to provide a substitute contractor as qualified by STATE, to complete performance of the contract. Performance by the substitute contractor shall be rendered pursuant to all material provisions of the original contract, including the provisions of the performance and payment bond. Such substitute performance does not involve the award of a new public contract and shall not be subject to competitive bidding provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 1-1997, f. 9-4-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
