



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 GINSENG MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
 603-060-0020 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in this division, the following definitions apply:  (1) “Certificate of Origin” means a legal document required for out-of-state or foreign trade attesting to the fact that a specific lot of ginseng was legally cultivated and harvested in Oregon.  (2) “Cultivated Ginseng” means ginseng which is growing or has been grown in tilled beds under shade of artificial structures or under natural shade and is cultivated by a person.  (3) “Dealer” means a person who buys cultivated ginseng for the purpose of resale, except that it does not include a person who buys dry root of cultivated ginseng solely for the purpose of final retail sale to consumers in the United States.  (4) “Department” means the department of agriculture of the state of Oregon.  (5) “Director” means the director of the department of agriculture or his duly appointed representative (Inspector).  (6) “Ginseng” means any part of the plant known as American Ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) including plants, whole roots, essentially intact roots, and root chunks and slices, but excluding root hairs, extracts, derivatives, leaves, stems, flowers and seeds.  (7) “Grower” means a person who grows cultivated ginseng except persons growing solely for personal use, direct retail sales, or direct sales to retail outlets within the state of Oregon.  (8) “Out-of-state ginseng” means ginseng originating from a state other than Oregon.  (9) “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, governmental entity or any combination of individuals, or any employee, agent, or officer thereof.  (10) “Wild ginseng” means ginseng originating from within its natural range and which was grown in an uncultivated state and was collected from its native habitat. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.190 & OL 1997 & Ch. 9 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 1997 & Ch. 9 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 5-1997, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
