



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commission for the Blind 
 Chapter 585 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 PROCEDURAL RULES 
 585-001-0010 
 Violence-Free Workplace Policy
 
 
 (1) It is the policy of Commission to provide and maintain a workplace and facilities open to the public that are free from violence and the threat of violence. Violence in any form will not be tolerated. 

 (2) This policy prohibits violence, which is behavior that to a reasonable person is intimidating, hostile, threatening, violent or abusive. Such behavior may include: 

 (a) Threats and threatening behavior such as physical, verbal, or written acts that express or are reasonably perceived to imply intent to cause physical or psychological harm against a person or persons, or cause damage to property; 

 (b) Statements, gestures, or expressions that communicate a direct or indirect threat of physical or psychological harm; 

 (c) Violent behavior such as carrying out threats or threatening behavior. 

 (3)  Commission staff and managers are responsible for immediately notifying their supervisor and/or the Executive Director when they have any knowledge of implied or direct threats (including possession of weapons on Commission premises) against Commission staff. This notification includes threats from other employees, clients, and members of the general public. 

 (a) If a staff member is threatened by another employee, a client, or a member of the general public, they should terminate the interaction immediately and notify their supervisor or the Executive Director. 

 (b) Once a report has been made, the incident will be investigated by the Executive Director, personnel director or such additional persons as the Executive Director may designate. Any threats or assaults that require the immediate attention of law enforcement or security shall be reported to the appropriate security or police entity. 

 (c) Following incidents of violence or threats of violence, the Commission may utilize the Employee Assistance Program for group and/or individual debriefing. 

 (4) Instances of violence or the threat of violence by employees shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal. Instances of violence or the threat of violence by active clients could result in immediate case closure. Instances of violence or the threat of violence by members of the general public could result in criminal charges. 

 (5) Retaliating against staff or managers who report or experience workplace violence or who participate in an investigation of workplace violence is prohibited. Any staff member found to have engaged in retaliatory action or behavior may be subject to discipline, up to and including dismissal. 

 (6) Weapons are prohibited on Commission property (including vehicles). 

 (a) The term “weapons” includes any firearm as defined under ORS 166.210(2) or other weapon, device, animal, instrument, material or substance which, under the circumstances in which it is used, attempted to be used, or threatened to be used, is readily capable of causing death or serious physical injury, or serious damage to property. 

 (b) Employees, clients, and members of the general public, including those with concealed weapons permits, are prohibited from bringing weapons onto any Commission premises, including vehicles. Law enforcement officers who are on duty are excepted from this policy. 

 (c) Any employee, client, or other citizen who brings a weapon onto Commission premises will be asked to leave immediately. Persons who fail to leave under these circumstances may be charged with the crime of trespass. Any employee who possesses a weapon in the workplace may be subject to discipline, including dismissal. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 346.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 346.150 & DAS 50-010-02 eff. 02/01/2019 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFTB 2-2021, amend filed 02/23/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFTB 2-1999, f. & cert. ef. 4-15-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
