



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 DESIGNATION OF PLANNING AND SERVICE AREAS 
 411-002-0100 
 Definitions Relating to the Designation of Planning and Service Areas 
 
 (1) “Area Agency on Aging” means the designated entity with which the Division contracts to meet the requirements of the Older Americans Act and ORS Chapter 410 in planning and providing services to the elderly or elderly and disabled population for a designated Planning and Service Area.  (2) “Division” means the Seniors and People with Disabilities Division of the Department of Human Services.  (3) “Planning and Service Area” means the geographical area, consisting of one or more counties, for which one Area Agency on Aging is designated by the Division to plan for and provide services under the Older Americans Act and ORS Chapter 410.  (4)(a) “Type A Area Agency on Aging” means a designated entity that administers the Older Americans Act and Oregon Project Independence programs for a Planning and Service Area. A Type A Area Agency on Aging may be:  (A) An office or agency of a unit of general purpose local government which is selected by the chief elected official of the unit to serve as an Area Agency on Aging; or  (B) Any office or agency designated by the appropriate chief elected officials of any combination of units of general or general and special purpose local government formed in accordance with ORS Chapter 190; or  (C) A private non-profit organization.  (b) In Planning and Service Areas served by a Type A Area Agency on Aging, Medicaid, financial and adult protective services, and regulatory programs for the elderly and disabled are administered by a Multi-Service Office of the Division.  (5) “Type B Area Agency on Aging” means a designated entity that meets the definition of an area agency on aging, and is administered by a unit or combination of units of general purpose local government, and administers the Medicaid, financial and adult protective services, and regulatory programs for the elderly or the elderly and disabled.  (a) A Type B Area Agency on Aging may contract with the Division for services of state employees; or  (b) A Type B Area Agency on Aging may have such employees transferred to employment by the Area Agency by transfer agreement.  (6) “Type B1 Area Agency on Aging” means a designated entity that meets the definition of a Type B area agency on aging, and administers the Medicaid, financial and adult protective services, and regulatory programs for the elderly. In a Planning and Service Area served by a Type B1 Area Agency on Aging, the Medicaid and financial assistance program for the Disabled is administered by a Disability Service Office of the Division.  (7) “Type B2 Area Agency on Aging” means a designated entity that meets the definition of a Type B1 area agency on aging and administers the Medicaid, financial, adult protective services and regulatory programs for the elderly and disabled. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.210 - 410.300 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SDSD 9-1999, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 3-1986, f. & ef. 2-5-86 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
