



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 315 Youth Care Center Designation 
 416-315-0030 
 Grievance 
 
 A county that disagrees with any OYA action or decision during the approval process may request a formal or informal hearing to grieve a particular OYA action.  (1) To request an informal grievance, the county will inform the OYA that the YCC program wishes to informally grieve a particular action.  (a) Within seven working days of receiving the request, the OYA will contact the YCC program to schedule a meeting designed to define the problem, identify the desired outcome, and establish a plan for resolution.  (b) The results of the meeting will be provided in writing to the YCC program, and include the steps necessary to initiate a formal grievance review if the county remains dissatisfied.  (2) The county will inform the OYA in writing the desire to initiate a formal grievance.  (a) Within 10 calendar days of receiving the request, the OYA will contact the YCC program to schedule a review of the matter.  (b) The review will be held within 30 calendar days of the request, unless the YCC program and the OYA mutually agree to a delay. All involved parties will be notified in writing of the date and time for the review.  (c) The review will be held at the YCC program and during normal working hours, unless the YCC program requests a different time or location, and prior authorized by the OYA.  (d) The Deputy Director, or designee, will convene a Program Review Committee. Individuals may be selected from external and internal stakeholders and experts as indicated by the YCC program to be reviewed.  (e) The review will be recorded, and the recording preserved until the grievance is resolved or for two years, whichever is longer.  (3) Only information directly related to issue(s) of the grievance will be considered.  (4) Copies of documents relied upon will be provided to the YCC program and the OYA. If information contained within those documents is confidential, as defined by federal or state laws or policies, it will be redacted and the non-confidential portions will be provided.  (5) Within 10 working days of completing the review, the OYA will prepare a written decision. The decision will include directions to the county for filing an appeal to the Director.  (6) A copy of the decision will be sent to the YCC program as soon as practical following its completion. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420.855 - 420.885 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 12-2005, f. & cert. ef. 6-13-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
