



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 157 FOOD SERVICE LICENSING, INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES 
 333-157-0077 
 Temporary Restaurant Licensing and Inspection 
 
 (1) A person may not operate a single-event, intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant without first procuring a license to do so from the Local Public Health Authority.  (2)(a) Application for an intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant license shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Authority and shall contain the name and address of the applicant, the specific location of the intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant, a description of the public gatherings, entertainment events, food product promotions or other events to be served by the intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant, an operational review and any other information the Authority may require. In addition to the application the applicant for an intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant license shall pay to the Local Public Health Authority the appropriate license fee under ORS 624.490.  (b) The Local Public Health Authority shall issue a license to a benevolent organization to operate a single-event temporary restaurant if the benevolent organization has notified the Local Public Health Authority orally or in writing that the benevolent organization intends to operate a single-event temporary restaurant. A Local Public Health Authority may not charge a benevolent organization a license fee or inspection fee for a single-event temporary restaurant.  (3)(a) Intermittent and seasonal temporary restaurants must complete and submit an operational plan for review by the Local Public Health Authority prior to obtaining a license and operation of the establishment.  (b) Intermittent and seasonal temporary restaurants that do not complete an operational plan prior to operation may operate under one or more single-event temporary licenses until the operational plan can be completed and approved.  (c) After the operational plan has been completed by the Local Public Health Authority, another operational plan is not required for subsequent licenses, unless deemed necessary by the Local Public Health Authority.  (4) The single-event, intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of the licensee.  (5) An intermittent temporary restaurant license shall expire 30 days after issuance.  (6) A seasonal temporary restaurant license shall expire 90 days after issuance.  (7) A single-event temporary restaurant license shall terminate 30 days after issuance unless within 30 days the single-event temporary restaurant is discontinued or moved from the specific location for which the license was issued.  (8) An intermittent or seasonal temporary license shall terminate immediately if:  (a) The intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant prepares or serves food for consumption by the public that is not in connection with a public gathering, entertainment event, food product promotion or other event held by an oversight organization;  (b) The location of the intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant changes; or  (c) The menu is substantially altered as defined by OAR 333-157-0073(6).  (d) If a licensed operation undergoes a substantial menu alteration, then a new license and completed operational plan is required.  (9) If the license of an intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant is terminated under section (8) of this rule, the intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant may reapply for a license in accordance with section (2) of this rule.  (10) The Local Public Health Authority may suspend, deny or revoke a single-event, intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant license if it appears, after a reasonable time has been given for correction of a sanitation violation, that the applicant does not meet applicable minimum sanitation standards as described in ORS 624.010 through 624.121 or in OAR 333-150-0000. Any suspension, denial or revocation action shall be taken in accordance with ORS Chapter 183.  (11) The Local Public Health Authority may conduct a reinspection of a seasonal or intermittent temporary restaurant if a priority item or priority foundation item violation is uncorrected and a separate follow-up visit is necessary to determine compliance.  (12) A seasonal or intermittent temporary restaurant that has uncorrected priority item and priority foundation item violations and for which an alternative procedure has not been approved shall be closed in accordance with ORS 624.096.  (13) The renewal of a single-event, intermittent or seasonal temporary restaurant license shall be in accordance with section (2) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 624.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 624.038, 624.041, 624.082 & 624.084 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2012, f. 8-30-12, cert. ef. 9-4-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 3-2012, f. 2-29-12, cert. ef. 3-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
