



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 195 RECORDS AND REPORTS 
 441-195-0010 
 Customer and Account Records by Broker-Dealers 
 
 (1) Every broker-dealer shall make and keep current a record for each account with a natural person as a customer or owner, which record shall state the customer’s or account owner’s name, address, tax identification or social security number, telephone number, date of birth, employment status (including occupation and whether the customer is an associated person of a broker-dealer), annual income, net worth (excluding value of primary residence), the account’s investment objectives, and whether the account includes the signatures of the associated person regularly handling the account and a supervisor designated pursuant to OAR 441-205-0210(2). In the case of a joint account, the account record must include personal information for each joint owner who is a natural person; however, financial information for the individual joint owners may be combined. For accounts in existence on the effective date of this amended rule, this information must be obtained no later than May 2, 2006.  (2) Any item of information required by section (1) of this rule need not be contained in the customer’s record if, after reasonable inquiry, the customer declines, neglects, or is unable to furnish or update such item of information and a statement to that effect is placed in such record.  (3) Every broker-dealer shall make and keep current a record indicating that:  (a) No later than May 2, 2006 for customers existing as of May 2, 2003, and no later than 30 days of the opening of an account for new customers since May 2, 2003, and thereafter at intervals no greater than 36 months, each customer or account owner was furnished with a copy of the account record or an alternate document with all information required by section (1) of this rule. This document may be mailed with the account statement, and may exclude any tax identification number and date of birth. The broker-dealer shall include an explanation of any terms regarding investment objectives, and shall include or accompany the document with prominent statements that the customer or owner should mark any corrections and return the account record or alternate document to the broker-dealer, and that the customer or owner should notify the broker-dealer of any future changes to information contained in the account record;  (b) For each account record updated to reflect a customer or account owner change of name or address, the broker-dealer sent a notification of that change to the customer’s old address, or to each joint owner, and the associated person, if any, responsible for that account, no later than 30 days after the broker-dealer received notice of the change;  (c) For each change in the account’s investment objectives the broker-dealer has furnished to each customer or owner and the associated person, if any, responsible for that account a copy of the updated customer account record or alternate document with all information required to be furnished in subsection (a) of this section no later than 30 days after the broker-dealer received notice of the change or after the account was updated for any reason other than the broker-dealer receiving notice of the change. The broker-dealer may elect to send this notification with the next statement scheduled to be mailed to the customer or owner;  (d) Each customer or account owner was furnished with a copy of each written agreement entered into on or after May 2, 2003 pertaining to that account and that, if requested by the customer or account owner, the customer or account owner was furnished with a fully executed copy of each agreement;  (e) Each customer of the broker-dealer has been provided with a notice containing the address and telephone number of the broker-dealer’s department to which any account-related complaints may be directed.  (4) Every broker-dealer shall make and keep current a record with respect to each discretionary account which shall include the dated signature of each customer or account owner granting the authority and the dated signature of each natural person to whom discretionary authority was granted.  (5) The account record requirements in section (1) of this rule and the furnishing requirement in subsection (3)(a) of this rule apply only to accounts for which the broker-dealer is, or within the preceding 36 months has been, required to make a suitability determination under federal securities laws or the requirements of a self-regulatory organization of which it is a member.  (6) Every broker-dealer shall make and keep current, as to each office, the books and records described in this rule. For purposes of this rule, “office” means any location where one or more associated persons regularly conduct the business of handling funds or securities or effecting any transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of, any security. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 59 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 59.195 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 1-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-19-04 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 CC 12-1973, f. 7-12-73, cert. ef. 9-1-73, Renumbered from 815-030-0195 and 815-030-0081 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
