



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 49 MODEL RULES GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 137-049-0300 
 Facsimile Bids and Proposals 
 
 (1) Contracting Agency Authorization. A Contracting Agency may authorize Offerors to submit facsimile Offers. If the Contracting Agency determines that Bid or Proposal security is or will be required, the Contracting Agency shall not authorize facsimile Offers unless the Contracting Agency has established a method for receipt of such security. Prior to authorizing the submission of facsimile Offers, the Contracting Agency shall determine that the Contracting Agency's equipment and personnel are capable of receiving the size and volume of anticipated Offers within a short period of time. In addition, the Contracting Agency shall establish administrative procedures and controls:  (a) To receive, identify, record and safeguard facsimile Offers;  (b) To ensure timely delivery of Offers to the location of Opening; and  (c) To preserve the Offers as sealed.  (2) Provisions To Be Included in Solicitation Document. In addition to all other requirements, if the Contracting Agency authorizes a facsimile Offer for Bids or Proposals, the Contracting Agency shall include in the Solicitation Document (other than in a Request for Quotes) the following:  (a) A provision substantially in the form of the following: “A ‘facsimile Offer,’ as used in this Solicitation Document, means an Offer, modification of an Offer, or withdrawal of an Offer that is transmitted to and received by the Contracting Agency via a facsimile machine”;  (b) A provision substantially in the form of the following: “Offerors may submit facsimile Offers in response to this Solicitation Document. The entire response must arrive at the place and by the time specified in this Solicitation Document.”;  (c) A provision that requires Offerors to Sign their facsimile Offers;  (d) A provision substantially in the form of the following: “The Contracting Agency reserves the right to Award the Contract solely on the basis of the facsimile Offer. However, upon the Contracting Agency's request the apparent successful Offeror shall promptly submit its complete original Signed Offer.”;  (e) The data and compatibility characteristics of the Contracting Agency's receiving facsimile machine as follows:  (A) Telephone number; and  (B) Compatibility characteristics, e.g., make and model number, receiving speed, communications protocol; and  (f) A provision that the Contracting Agency is not responsible for any failure attributable to the transmission or receipt of the facsimile Offer including, but not limited to the following:  (A) Receipt of garbled or incomplete documents;  (B) Availability or condition of the receiving facsimile machine;  (C) Incompatibility between the sending and receiving facsimile machine;  (D) Delay in transmission or receipt of documents;  (E) Failure of the Offeror to properly identify the Offer documents;  (F) Illegibility of Offer documents; and  (G) Security and confidentiality of data. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279C.365 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 20-2005, f. 12-27-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
