



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 CASE MANAGEMENT — SERVICE PLANS 
 413-040-0248 
 Travel Arrangements and Reimbursement for Transportation Expenses 
 
 (1) The Department may pay transportation costs related to the interstate placement of a child in the Department's custody. 

 (2) Travel arrangements and expenses for children in the Department's custody. 

 (a) Travel arrangements must be made through a state-contracted travel agency. 

 (b) Travel arrangements must be made only after the ICPC authorization number is provided by the ICPC office. 

 (c) Travel expenses must be pre-authorized by the Oregon ICPC office; however, pre-authorization for expenses is not required if there is an emergency, as determined by the ICPC office. 

 (d) The Oregon ICPC office will reimburse expenses using the required travel expense form. Receipts must be submitted for all expenses that are not per diem expenses. 

 (3) The Oregon ICPC office may pay for any of the following expenses for a placement, pre-adoptive visit or for returning a child or young adult to Oregon from an ICPC placement: 

 (a) A one-way ticket for the child. 

 (b) A round trip ticket for a chaperone selected by Department staff. 

 (c) Car rental, meals, and shipment of reasonable belongings. 

 (d) Round-trip mileage based on per diem rates . 

 (e) Baggage fees. 

 (f) Parking. 

 (g) For DHS staff only, meals based on the U.S. General Services Administration per diem rates. 

 (h) For non-DHS staff and the child, meals up to the U.S. General Services Administration per diem rate, based on the receipt. 

 (i) Lodging, up to the U.S. General Services Administration per diem rate, based on the receipt. 

 (j) For placement transition. After an adoption placement has been approved, the Oregon ICPC office may pay expenses for one pre-placement visit. If a placement transition visit is approved, the Oregon ICPC office will pay for up to six days, five nights, at the U.S. General Services Administration per diem rates. 

 (4) Exceptions to the travel reimbursement limitations in (3)(a) to (j) of this rule may be approved by the ICPC manager. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.200-417.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 28-2019, adopt filed 06/12/2019, effective 06/12/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
