



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 PLAN AMENDMENT PROCESS 
 350-050-0045 
 Pre-Application Conference Required for Quasi-Judicial Plan Amendment 
 
 (1) Prior to submitting any application for a quasi-judicial plan amendment to the Management Plan, an applicant shall attend a pre-application conference with the Executive Director.  (2) The applicant shall submit a statement of the proposed change to the land use designation, landscape setting, or recreation intensity class or policy change and the purpose for which the changes are sought. Proposals for quasi-judicial amendments shall include a list of all parcels to which the proposal applies and the names and addresses of the owners of the parcels. The Executive Director may request the applicant submit additional information about the proposal prior to scheduling a pre-application conference.  (3) The Executive Director shall schedule a pre-application conference after the applicant submits all additional information that the Executive Director requests. The Executive Director shall hold the pre-application conference within a reasonable period of time after receipt of the additional information. The Executive Director shall notify the following persons of the pre-application conference:  (a) The applicant;  (b) For quasi-judicial amendments, the owners of all parcels to which the proposal applies;  (c) Representatives of the USDA Forest Service, the county or counties where the subject parcel or parcels are located, the four Indian Tribes with treaty rights in the National Scenic Area, and appropriate state agencies; and,  (d) Any other person the Executive Director believes may have an interest in the proposal or requests notice of the pre-application conference.  (4) The Commission may charge a fee for holding a pre-application conference. The Commission shall set the fee. The Commission shall hold a public hearing before establishing a fee for pre-application conferences.  (5) The purpose of the pre-application conference is to assist the applicant to complete the Plan Amendment process successfully and expeditiously, identify possible practicable alternatives, identify issues that concern the Commission and other agencies and interested persons, determine what information would be necessary for the Executive Director to review the application, give an estimated schedule for considering the application, and identify possible conditions of approval.  (6) The Executive Director shall issue a pre-application conference report, which shall summarize the discussion at the conference and shall contain a preliminary list of information necessary to review the application. The list of necessary information shall be as comprehensive as reasonably possible, but shall not be exclusive.  (7) The Executive Director may require an applicant to attend a new pre-application conference if the application submitted is materially different from the proposal discussed at the pre-application conference, or conditions in the Scenic Area have materially changed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015 & 16 USC 544c(b) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2011, f. 3-23-11, cert. ef. 5-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2006, f. 3-22-06, cert. ef. 5-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
