



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Addiction Services - Chapter 415 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 STANDARDS FOR OUTPATIENT OPIOID TREATMENT PROGRAMS 
 415-020-0017 
 Patient Records 
 
 (1) Patient Recordkeeping: Each program shall:  (a) Accurately record all information about patients as required by these rules in the permanent patient record;  (b) Maintain each patient record to assure identification, accessibility, uniform organization, and completeness of all components required by these rules and in a manner to protect against damage or separation from the permanent patient or program record;  (c) Keep all documentation current .unless specified otherwise, within seven days of delivering the service or obtaining the information;  (d) Include the signature of the person providing the documentation and service;  (e) Not falsify, alter, or destroy any patient information required by these rules to be maintained in a patient record or program records;  (f) Document all procedures in these rules requiring patient consent and the provision of information to the patient on forms describing what the patient has been asked to consent to or been informed of, and signed and dated by the patient. If the program does not obtain documentation of consent or provision of required information, the reasons must be specified in the patient record and signed by the person responsible for providing the service to the patient;  (g) Require that errors in the permanent record be corrected by lining out the incorrect data with a single line in ink, adding the correct information, and dating and initialing the correction. Errors may not be corrected by removal or obliteration through the use of correction fluid or tape so they cannot be read; and  (h) Permit inspection of patient records upon request by the Division to determine compliance with these rules.  (2) Patient and Fiscal Record Retention: Patient records shall be kept for a minimum of seven years. If a program is taken over or acquired by another program, the original program is responsible for assuring compliance with the requirements of 42 CFR § 2.19(a)(1) or (b), whichever is applicable. If a program discontinues operations, the program is responsible for:  (a) Transferring fiscal records required to be maintained under section (1) of this rule to the Division if it is a direct contract or to the community mental health program or managed care plan administering the contract, whichever is applicable; and  (b) Destroying patient records or, with patient consent, transferring patient records to another program. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 430.256 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.010(4)(b) & 430.560 - 430.590 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 5-2013, f. & cert. ef. 6-7-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
