



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 OREGON SCENIC WATERWAYS 
 736-040-0025 
 Public Use of Scenic Waterways 
 
 (1) These rules apply to all scenic waterways unless more specific rules have been adopted for a particular scenic waterway. All persons using scenic waterways for recreation shall comply with the provisions of the Act and with the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission under the Act:  (a) Private Property: Nothing in the Act or in these rules and regulations affords to any person any right to trespass upon the property of another or in any way alters the rights of private landholders in regard to trespass. The Commission admonishes all persons to respect the rights and sensibilities of those who make their homes and livelihoods within the scenic waterways;  (b) Litter and Pollution: Refuse, scrap, trash and garbage which is not placed in receptacles provided for that purpose at maintained recreation sites shall not be buried or abandoned, but shall be taken out of the scenic waterways for proper disposal. All persons shall avoid pollution of the waters, lands and air within scenic waterways in any manner whatsoever;  (c) Fires: Fires shall be made only in compliance with state law and only when and where there is no possibility of their causing damage. Conditions of wind and weather, proximity of vegetation or flammable materials and other factors as prudence dictates shall be most carefully considered. No open fire shall be made unless a shovel, axe and bucket of water are nearby. No open fire shall be left unattended and all fires shall be completely extinguished with water after use. Permissible fires shall be of the smallest practicable size;  (d) Tree Cutting: Living or standing trees or plants shall not be cut for burning or for any other purpose by persons using the scenic waterways for recreation;  (e) Collecting Souvenirs and Relics: Except as provided by law, antiquities, relics, artifacts, fossils and souvenirs shall not be removed from the site of their discovery or otherwise harmed. Archeological sites and fossil beds shall not be disturbed without proper authority under law;  (f) Livestock: Persons using the scenic waterways for recreation shall not harass or in any way interfere with livestock or domestic animals, whether on private or public land, or damage fences lawfully placed on such lands for their management.  (2) Natural springs shall not be damaged or in any way rendered unusable by persons or animals.  (3) The Commission asks all persons to leave in passing no mark upon the land that might diminish its value to another, for the unspoiled beauty of these waterways, of value to the human spirit, is the common heritage of all. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.845 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 3-1982, f. & ef. 3-26-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HC 1285, f. 6-27-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
