



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 DAM SAFETY 
 690-020-0055 
 Design Requirements for New Dams or to Increase Dam Height: Design Drawings 
 
 The Engineer of Record shall submit applicable drawings when the Engineer believes the design is ready for review and approval by the State Engineer. 

 (1) Drawings must accurately portray the work to be accomplished and be of sufficient detail to clearly define all features of the project. After all changes required by the State Engineer are made, final design drawings must be neatly and accurately drawn to a scale sufficiently large for the drawings to be readily interpreted. 

 (2) Drawings must be uncluttered and easy to understand for determination of design compliance by the contractor, the Engineer of Record, and the State Engineer. 

 (3) Drawings must be no larger than 24" X 36". Other acceptable sizes for drawings are 17" X 22" and 22" X 34". All drawings must have a graphic scale bar so that scale can be determined after enlargement or reduction. Each sheet shall be numbered sequentially with the first sheet being sheet number one along with the total number of sheets; e.g., 1 of 6. 

 (4) Drawings shall include the following information: 

 (a) An official Dam name, which must not have already been used for a Dam as indicated in the Oregon Dam Safety Database. This unique name must be affixed on each drawing; 

 (b) The first drawing must include a location map with the drainage basin, the Dam and reservoir, streams within the drainage area, and the location of the nearest access highway. This drawing must include legal location of the Dam including Section, Township and Range, and the location of the survey reference point with latitude, longitude, elevation, and datum elevation in NAVD1988; 

 (c) A contour map of the reservoir site showing the legal location of the Dam with a contour interval no greater than five feet. A plan of the Dam should be superimposed on this map. If scale permits, this drawing should show the location of the Spillway(s), Conduit inlet and outlet, and the location, distance and direction to a government land corner or other permanent survey marker; 

 (d) An area capacity curve showing the total capacity to the Crest, with the Spillway invert elevation identified. Surface area and storage capacity curves must be in acres and Acre-feet, respectively; 

 (e) A profile of the Dam site at the center of the Dam; 

 (f) A cross section of the Dam at maximum section; 

 (g) Plan view(s) of Dam at maximum section, and other sections as needed; 

 (h) Cross section(s) of Dam, including the maximum section with the official Dam Height; 

 (i) Spillway details, Spillway approach control discharge, and energy dissipation; 

 (j) Low level Conduit details, including diameter, material, encasement; and 

 (k) Slide Gate or Valve details including the trash rack, control stem, pedestal and wheel, or other control details, and air vent. 

 (5) Elevations must be clearly labeled on applicable drawings and include the: 

 (a) Base of Dam and official Dam Height; 

 (b) Crest; 

 (c) Spillway control section; 

 (d) Base of Spillway discharge; and 

 (e) Invert of the Conduit at both the inlet and outlet. 

 (6) All drawings must be dated and have sufficient space for State Engineer’s approval stamp, at least 3" x 3" near the lower right hand corner of the drawing. 

 (7) Drawings must be designated as final design drawings or As-built Drawings. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027, 540.488 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540.449, 540.488 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 3-2020, amend filed 06/29/2020, effective 07/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-2015, f. & cert. ef. 3-17-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
