



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0030 
 Professional Teaching License: Program Standards 
 
 (1) On March 1, 2016, the Commission rescinds state approval of all Continuing Teaching License programs. If an educator preparation program would like to convert its Continuing Teaching License program to a Professional Teaching License program, it must resubmit its program for Commission approval in accordance with the standards of this rule and in the manner required by the Commission.  (2) Candidates who are prepared for the Professional Teaching License will demonstrate an advanced level of knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of pre-kindergarten to grade 12 students within the endorsement areas on the license.  (3) The Commission may provide approval to an educator preparation program that prepares candidates for a Professional Teaching License only if it includes:  (a) Content that will enable candidates to gain an advanced level of knowledge, skills, abilities, professional dispositions, and cultural competencies to meet the standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook;  (c) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships; and  (d) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Professional Teaching License program.  (4) Standard 1: The Learner and Learning (Advanced Level):  (a) Learner Development: The teacher understands how children learns grow and develop, recognizing that patterns of learning and development vary individually within and across the cognitive, linguistic, social, emotional, and physical areas, and designs and implements developmentally appropriate and challenging learning experiences. [InTASC Standard #1]  (b) Learning Differences: The teacher uses understanding of individual differences and diverse cultures and communities to ensure inclusive learning environments that enable each learner to meet high standards. [InTASC Standard #2]  (c) Learning Environments: The teacher works with others to create environments that support individual and collaborative learning, and that encourage positive social interaction, active engagement in learning, and self motivation. [InTASC Standard #3]  (5) Standard 2: Content (Advanced Level)  (a) Content Knowledge: The teacher understands the central concepts, tools of inquiry, and structures of the discipline(s) he or she teaches and creates learning experiences that make these aspects of the discipline accessible and meaningful for learners to assure mastery of the content. [InTASC Standard #4]  (b) Application of Content: The teacher understands how to connect concepts and use differing perspectives to engage learners in critical thinking, creativity, and collaborative problem solving related to authentic local and global issues. [InTASC Standard #5]  (6) Standard 3: Instructional Practice (Advanced Level)  (a) Assessment: The teacher understands and uses multiple methods of assessment to engage learners in their own growth, to monitor learner progress, and to guide the teacher’s and learner’s decision making. [InTASC Standard #6]  (b) Planning for Instruction: The teacher plans instruction that supports every student in meeting rigorous learning goals by drawing upon knowledge of content areas, curriculum, cross-disciplinary skills and pedagogy, as well as learners and the community context. [InTASC Standard #7]  (c) Instructional Strategies: The teacher understands and uses a variety of instructional strategies to encourage learners to develop deep understanding of content areas and their connections, and to build skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. [InTASC Standard #8]  (7) Standard 4: Professional Responsibility (Advanced Level)  (a) Professional Learning and Ethical Practice: The teacher engages in ongoing professional learning and uses evidence to continually evaluate his or her practice, particularly the effects of his/her choices and actions on others (learners, families, other professionals, and the community), and adapts practice to meet the needs of each learner. [InTASC Standard #9]  (b) Leadership and Collaboration: The teacher demonstrates leadership by taking responsibility for student learning and by collaborating with learners, families, colleagues, other school professionals, and community members to ensure learner growth and development, learning, and well-being. [InTASC Standard #10] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430; 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 13-2015(Temp), f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
