



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 PUBLIC FACILITIES PLANNING 
 660-011-0025 
 Timing of Required Public Facilities 
 
 (1) The public facilities plan shall include a general estimate of the timing for the planned public facility projects. This timing component of the public facilities plan can be met in several ways depending on whether the project is anticipated in the short term or long term. The timing of projects may be related directly to population growth, e.g., the expansion or new construction of water treatment facilities. Other facility projects can be related to a measure of the facility’s service level being met or exceeded, e.g., a major arterial or intersection reaching a maximum vehicle-per-day standard. Development of other projects may be more long term and tied neither to specific population levels nor measures of service levels, e.g., sewer projects to correct infiltration and inflow problems. These projects can take place over a long period of time and may be tied to the availability of long-term funding. The timing of projects may also be tied to specific years.  (2) Given the different methods used to estimate the timing of public facilities, the public facility plan shall identify projects as occurring in either the short term or long term, based on those factors which are related to project development. For those projects designated for development in the short term, the public facility plan shall identify an approximate year for development. For those projects designated for development over the long term, the public facility plan shall provide a general estimate as to when the need for project development would exist, e.g., population level, service level standards, etc. Timing provisions for public facility projects shall be consistent with the acknowledged comprehensive plan’s projected growth estimates. The public facility plan shall consider the relationships between facilities in providing for development.  (3) Anticipated timing provisions for public facilities are not considered land use decisions as specified in ORS 197.712(2)(e), and, therefore, cannot be the basis of appeal under ORS 197.610(1) and (2) or 197.835(4). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1984, f. & ef. 10-18-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
