



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 MATERIALS SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 333-125-0175 
 Physical Protection in Transit: Preplanning and Coordination of Shipment of Category 1 or Category 2 Quantities of Radioactive Material 
 
 (1) Each licensee that plans to transport, or deliver to a carrier for transport, licensed material that is a category 1 quantity of radioactive material outside the confines of the licensee’s facility or other place of use or storage shall:  (a) Preplan and coordinate shipment arrival and departure times with the receiving licensee;  (b) Preplan and coordinate shipment information with the Governor or the Governor’s designee of any state through which the shipment will pass to:  (A) Discuss the state’s intention to provide law enforcement escorts; and  (B) Identify safe havens; and  (C) Document the preplanning and coordination activities.  (2) Each licensee that plans to transport, or deliver to a carrier for transport, licensed material that is a category 2 quantity of radioactive material outside the confines of the licensee’s facility or other place of use or storage shall coordinate the shipment no-later-than arrival time and the expected shipment arrival with the receiving licensee. The licensee shall document the coordination activities.  (3) Each licensee who receives a shipment of a category 2 quantity of radioactive material shall confirm receipt of the shipment with the originator. If the shipment has not arrived by the no-later-than arrival time, the receiving licensee shall notify the originator.  (4) Each licensee, who transports or plans to transport a shipment of a category 2 quantity of radioactive material, and determines that the shipment will arrive after the no-later-than arrival time provided pursuant to section (2) of this rule, shall promptly notify the receiving licensee of the new no-later-than arrival time.  (5) The licensee shall retain a copy of the documentation for preplanning and coordination and any revision thereof, as a record for three years. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.635 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.635 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 19-2015, f. 9-30-15, cert. ef. 10-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
