



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0310 
 Art: Program Standards
 
 
 (1) Candidates who are prepared for the Art endorsement will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of students in art learning environments. 

 (2) The Commission may provide approval to an educator preparation program that prepares candidates for an Art endorsement only if it includes: 

 (a) Content that will enable candidates to gain the knowledge, skills, abilities, professional dispositions, and cultural competencies to meet the standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook; 

 (b) A requirement for candidates to complete the Commission-approved test for Art or meet the requirements of at least one Multiple Measures content knowledge assessment option for this endorsement area; 

 (c) A requirement for candidates to complete a teacher performance assessment as provided in OAR 584-017-1100; 

 (d) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships in Art classrooms; and 

 (e) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Art endorsement program. 

 (3) Standard 1: Content of the Visual Arts. Candidates must demonstrate proficiency in: 

 (a) Process of artmaking involving traditional and contemporary studio approaches; 

 (b) One or more studio areas; 

 (c) History of art, knowledge of the context in which works of art have been created, and fostering respect for all forms of art; and 

 (d) Providing exposure to a diverse set of traditional and contemporary artists. 

 (4) Standard 2: Theory and Practice in Art Education. Candidates must demonstrate proficiency in: 

 (a) Historical developments and prevailing theories of art education; 

 (b) Philosophical and social foundations underlying the inclusion of art in general education; 

 (c) Artistic, cognitive, emotional, moral, physical, and social development of children, adolescents and young adults; 

 (d) Theories of curriculum and instruction that make it possible for candidates to reflect on and refine their practice of art education; 

 (e) Developing curricula in a variety of instructional formats; 

 (f) Current teaching methods, materials and resources appropriate for various educational settings, populations, and levels of art education; 

 (g) Creating classroom environments in which effective art instruction can take place; 

 (h) Developing of interdisciplinary curricula; 

 (i) Assessment methods appropriate to the evaluation of student work, their own teaching, and the art program; and 

 (j) Self-evaluation and professional development. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.165 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.147 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 14-2022, amend filed 10/20/2022, effective 11/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
