



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0215 
 Vector Control Records
 
 
 (1) Aerial Spray Report Records: Series documents the acreage sprayed by air, the amount of chemical used to spray, and the cost of air time and materials used. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (2) Field/Operational Data Maps: Series documents maps of pest breeding sources in order to determine locations for field technicians. These maps are updated yearly, and depict all known pest breeding sources within the geographic areas. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (3) Field Technician Daily Reports: Series documents pest breeding sources and daily work performed by the field technician. Records may include copies of topographic maps and other data collected by field technicians. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 (4) Fish Stocking Permit Records: Series documents the distribution of fish to county residents for mosquito larvae control. Permits are required by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and governed by OAR 635-007. Records may include permits and annual lists of stocking done. Minimum retention: (a) Stocking lists, 5 years; (b) All other records, 10 years. 

 (5) Pest Breeding Site Monitoring Records: Series documents Vector Control’s monitoring of sites likely to breed mosquitoes and other pests. Records may include breeding site master list, storm drain master list, daily checking record, monthly checking summary, larvae and mosquito sampling records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (6) Pest Complaint Records: Series documents resident complaints about pests, Vector Control’s response, spraying, etc. Records may include standard complaint form, inspector assignment form, recheck form, hearing officer order, notice of violation, notice of civil penalty assessment, abatement notice, hearing notice, inspector’s report, evidence (usually photographs), and related documentation. Minimum retention: 5 years. 

 (7) Pesticide and Application Equipment Technical Information Records: Series documents proper use of pesticides and their chemical makeup. Records may include technical information sheets issued by manufacturers, application and use information, equipment specifications, reports and articles about the use of certain pesticides, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 30 years. 

 (8) Pesticide Application Records: Series documents the application of pesticides to agency buildings or grounds as required by the Oregon Department of Agriculture. Records may include pesticide applicator license information, lists of pesticides used, amount of pesticides used, dates of application, applicator notes, and work orders. Minimum retention: 3 years after report submitted to ODA. 

 (9) Pesticide Use Plans: Series documents plans which fulfill Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife requirements concerning the application of pesticides. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (10) Specified Animal Permit Records: Series documents permits issued for certain animals (bees, exotic animals, domesticated animals, and livestock). Records may include copy of annual permit, application, and copies of fee receipts, complaints, notices of violation, inspection records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Fee records, 3 years; (b) All other records, 6 years after permit revoked or non-renewal. 

 (11) Vector Control Chemical Inventory Records: Series documents chemicals stored and used by Vector Control for use in their rodent and mosquito control programs as required by ORS 634.146. Records may include asset transfer forms, product inventories, chemical use records, acquisition records, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Chemical Inventories. Minimum retention: 3 years. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
