



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Long Term Care Ombudsman 
 Chapter 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GOALS AND DEFINITIONS 
 114-002-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply to all rules in chapter 114:  (1) “Administrative Action” means any action which may adversely affect a resident’s health, safety, welfare or rights.  (2) “Area Planning District” means the geographical areas designated by the Office of the Long Term Care Ombudsman for the purpose of local program development.  (3) “Certified Ombudsman” means a designee.  (4) “Conflict of Interest with the Ombudsman Program” means that a situation exists where an individual’s personal interests may adversely influence the individual’s decisions relating to the Ombudsman Program, except that a person presently residing in a long term care facility shall not have a conflict of interest with the Ombudsman Program. A conflict of interest with the Ombudsman Program exists when:  (a) A person or a member of the person’s immediate family has any financial or ownership interests in a long term care facility or is employed by a long term care facility;  (b) A person is an employee, agent, or officer of an Area Agency on Aging, type B, or the local state office of the Senior and Disabled Services Division;  (c) A person has been employed by a long term care facility within the last two years.  (5) “Designee” means an individual appointed by the Ombudsman to serve as a representative of the Ombudsman Program in order to carry out the purposes of ORS 441.100 to 441.153. A designee may also be referred to as a Certified Ombudsman.  (6) “District Facilitator” means an individual appointed by the Ombudsman to coordinate designee support activities and assist in the coordination of all program activities at the area planning district level including ongoing training, complaint investigation and back-up as well as other liaison responsibilities.  (7) “Legal Representative” means a legal guardian or person with a valid power of attorney to act on behalf of another person.  (8) “Local Screening Committee” means a committee established pursuant to ORS 441.131 to screen and recruit designees and to perform such other program publicity and support functions as authorized by the Ombudsman.  (9) “Long Term Care Facility” means any licensed skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility as defined in rules adopted under ORS 442.015,adult foster care homes with residents over 60 years of age and residential care facility as defined in ORS 443.400.  (10) “Office of the Long Term Care Ombudsman” means the Ombudsman, the Deputy Ombudsman and other paid professional staff of the Ombudsman Program.  (11) “Ombudsman” means the State Long Term Care Ombudsman.  (12) “Ombudsman Program” means the state agency administered by the Ombudsman.  (13) “Person in Charge” means the Administrator, the Assistant Administrator or Director of Nursing of a long term care facility, or if none of those persons are available, then the nursing staff person in charge.  (14) “Screening Committee Member” means an individual who has been appointed by the Ombudsman to be a member of a local screening committee.  (15) “Specified Staff Person” means the first appropriate staff person, including receptionist,the first management or professional employee or the designated person in charge of a long term care facility. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LTCO 1-1989, f. 1-19-89, cert. ef. 2-1-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
