



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 RESOURCE PLAN 
 330-025-0020 
 Required Contents of the Resource Plan 
 
 (1) The resource plan shall list and describe all existing and Planned Electric Generating Facilities expected to be in operation to meet the utility’s demand in each of the forecast years. The description of existing and Planned Electric Generating Facilities shall include, but not be limited to, type, location, name plate rating, commercial operation date, retirement date, average energy capability, the utility’s share of ownership, fuel, and operating characteristics. For Planned Electric Generating Facilities, the status of the licensing process and a construction schedule shall be provided.  (2) The resource plan shall contain information on the financial and economic characteristics of Planned Electric Generating Facilities including, but not limited to, projected construction capital outlays, operation costs, and escalation rates.  (3) The resource plan shall list and describe all the utility’s existing and planned conservation programs (including programs to implement use of renewable resources at the point of end use), their actual or expected financial and economic characteristics, actual annual energy savings achieved to date from existing programs, and expected amount of energy savings on an annual basis for planned programs, taking into account energy savings specified by EFSC’s biennial forecast.  (4) A utility shall, in its submitted resource plan, specify what conditions (if any) inhibit obtaining the quantity of energy from conservation and renewable resources which is specified in EFSC’s biennial forecast and actions it is taking or which must be taken by other entities to overcome these.  (5) For the forecast period, the resource plan shall contain a list of utilities (including BPA), and Private Power Producers, with which the utility has contracts for firm purchases and sales. This listing shall include the amount and the price of electricity to be delivered, exchanged, or sold under each specific contract.  (6) The resource plan shall identify major transmission requirements to connect planned and purchased resources to the utility’s transmission grid.  (7) The resource plan shall include estimates of energy losses and energy used by the utility for each year of the forecast.  (8) The resource plan shall describe generally, the actions and timing of actions being taken or necessary to be taken by the utility to develop its proportional share of the resources identified in OAR 345-111-0020, Table 3. [Table not included. See ED. NOTE.] It is recognized that an individual utility may place a greater or lesser emphasis on each type of resource vis-a-vis its proportionate share, particularly for resources that are specific to a given service area. This description shall include, but not be limited to, identification of the major milestones that must be met in developing each type of these resources and when the Utility expects that they will be met.  (9) The resource plan shall include actual annual average system demand by major customer classes for the most recent five years for which data are available.  (10) If the resource plan deviates from EFSC’s biennial forecast of loads and resources (specifically in the makeup of energy from conservation and renewable resources), the utility shall explain the reasons for the deviation.  (11) A Utility may submit to the Director, in addition to the resource plan, alternate forecasts which are different from EFSC’s biennial forecast, or alternate resource plans to meet an alternate demand forecast or to meet EFSC’s demand forecast with an alternate mix. If the utility makes such a submission, it may describe why the alternate approach is believed more appropriate than that prescribed by EFSC’s forecast. The utility may, at its option, fully describe the methodology, assumptions, and data used to allow the Director to replicate the utility’s submission. If the Director requests additional information regarding the methodology, assumptions, and data used in such submission and the utility declines to provide same, the Director shall not be required to consider such submission.  (12) If any of the requested information in this rule is covered under a different submission to ODOE, such information need not be resubmitted. References to when the information was given to ODOE will be sufficient. If such information was recently submitted to a federal or state agency other than ODOE that filing may be provided to ODOE, provided it substantially complies with the information requested by ODOE.  (13) Where there are significant differences between the resource plan and the plan adopted by the Pacific Northwest Regional Planning Council, such differences will be identified and explained.  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.080 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 4-1982, f. & ef. 3-12-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
