



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 140 DUTIES 
 462-140-0350 
 Apprentice Jockey 
 
 (1) Apprentice jockeys are bound by all rules for jockeys, except when the rules for jockeys are in conflict with the rules for apprentices.  (2) An apprentice jockey 16 years of age or older who has the equivalent of at least one full year of experience exercising race horses and who has never been licensed as a jockey to ride in race meets which are reported in the Daily Racing Form or other official racing publications is eligible to apply for an "Apprentice Jockey Certificate," subject to approval of the stewards. The conditions of an apprentice jockey license, however, do not apply to quarter horse racing, and a jockey’s performances in quarter horse racing do not apply to the conditions of an apprentice jockey license.  (3) The racing commission may extend the weight allowance of an apprentice jockey when, at the discretion of the commission, an apprentice jockey is unable to continue riding due to:  (a) Physical disablement or illness;  (b) Military service;  (c) Attendance in an institution of secondary or higher education;  (d) Restriction on racing;  (e) Other valid reasons. In order to qualify for an extension an apprentice jockey shall have been rendered unable to ride for a period of not less than seven (7) consecutive days during the period in which the apprentice was entitled to an apprentice weight allowance. Under exceptional circumstances total days lost collectively will be given consideration. The racing commission currently licensing the apprentice jockey shall have the authority to grant an extension to an eligible applicant, but only after the apprentice has produced documentation verifying time lost as defined by this regulation. An apprentice may petition one of the jurisdictions in which he or she is licensed and riding for an extension of the time for claiming apprentice weight allowances, and the apprentice shall be bound by the decision of the jurisdiction so petitioned.  (4) No person may be licensed as an apprentice jockey after losing his or her entitlement to apprentice jockey weight allowance as determined in OAR 462-150-0050(16)(g).  (5) In all overnight races four furlongs or over, except stakes and handicaps, an apprentice jockey shall ride with a five pound weight allowance beginning with his/her first mount and for one full year from the date of his/her fifth winning mount. If after riding one year from the date of his/her fifth winning mount the apprentice jockey has failed to ride a total of forty winners from the date of his/her first wining mount, he/she shall continue to ride with a five pound weight allowance for one more year from the date of his/her fifth winning mount or until he/she has ridden forty winners, whichever comes first.  (e) An apprentice allowance may be waived with the consent of the stewards. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 2-2009, f. 8-24-09, cert. ef. 10-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
