



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0095 
 Electronic Brachytherapy Source Calibration Measurements 
 
 (1) Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output for an electronic brachytherapy device shall be performed by, or under the direct supervision of a Qualified Medical Physicist.  (2) Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall be made for each electronic brachytherapy source annually, or after any repair affecting the X-ray beam generation, or when indicated by the electronic brachytherapy source quality assurance checks.  (3) Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall utilize a calibration procedure in accordance with OAR 333-123-0010(5). The dosimetry system shall have been calibrated at the applicable electronic brachytherapy source energy.  (4) Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall include, as applicable, determination of:  (a) The output within two percent of the expected value, if applicable, or determination of the output if there is no expected value;  (b) Timer accuracy and linearity over the typical range of use;  (c) Proper operation of back-up exposure control devices;  (d) Evaluation that relative dose distribution around the source is within the limit recommended by the manufacturer or recommendations from a recognized national professional association in electronic brachytherapy (when available); and  (e) Source positioning accuracy to within 1 mm within the applicator.  (5) Calibration of the X-ray source output shall be in accordance with current published recommendations from a recognized national professional association with expertise in electronic brachytherapy (when available). In the absence of a calibration protocol published by a national professional association, the manufacturer’s calibration protocol shall be followed.  (6) The registrant shall maintain a record of each calibration in an auditable form for the duration of the registration. The record shall include:  (a) The date of the calibration;  (b) The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the electronic brachytherapy device and a unique identifier for its electronic brachytherapy source;  (c) The model numbers and serial numbers of the instrument(s) used to calibrate the electronic brachytherapy device; and  (d) The name and signature of the Qualified Medical Physicist responsible for performing the calibration. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2013, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
