



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 73 MANDATORY AND DESIRABLE CRITERIA FOR SITING CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES 
 291-073-0110 
 Utilization 
 
 (1) The Savanna Haven Property is a relatively undeveloped area that possesses scenic, aesthetic, open space, agricultural, natural resources, and wildlife habitat values (collectively "conservation values") of great importance to the people of Marion County and the State of Oregon. Among the specific conservation values of the Savanna Haven Property are valuable ecological systems and plant communities, including but not limited to the following:  (a) Vegetative communities ranging from grassland and oak savanna to mixed Oregon white oak and conifer woodlands;  (b) Bird species such as the acorn woodpecker, white breasted nuthatch, and American kestrel rely upon the savanna (grassland interspersed with oak groves), the woodland, or both for nesting and feeding grounds.  (2) The Department of Corrections understands the people of Marion County have a significant interest in the department’s maintenance and utilization of the Savanna Haven Property, particularly those individuals and organizations who own land bordering the Savanna Haven Property. Accordingly, and consistent with purposes, policy and values described in these rules, the department intends the Savanna Haven Property be maintained in the manner prescribed in subsection (3) of this rule and utilization of the property be limited to those activities specified in subsection (4) of this rule.  (3) The Savanna Haven Property shall be maintained as described below:  (a) Existing Buildings: Three barns currently exist on the property.  (A) The existing buildings on the property will be used and maintained by the department.  (B) If any buildings or structures on the property are damaged and present a safety hazard they will be repaired or demolished at the department’s sole discretion.  (b) Existing Roadways: Maintenance of unpaved access roads for necessary improvements and uses permitted on the property are permitted, but limited to agricultural and maintenance uses.  (A) The gravel roadways providing maintenance and emergency access to the property will be maintained as appropriate.  (B) No portion of the property shall be paved or otherwise covered with concrete, asphalt or any other surface material other than gravel.  (c) Vegetative Cover: The property shall be maintained with vegetative cover.  (A) Areas of significant natural resource and habitat value may be restored and maintained.  (B) The control of non-native vegetation by removal or herbicide application is permissible.  (C) Diseased or hazardous trees will be removed as permitted by City of Salem Revised Code Chapter 68.  (d) It is specially noted that in restoration of Willamette Valley oak woodland and savannah habitat, selective or complete removal of Douglas-fir is a normal professional restoration practice. Douglas-fir trees may be removed from the property to improve the habitat value of the savannah and woodlands.  (4) Permissible activities of the Savanna Haven Property include the following:  (a) Agricultural production limited to the following:  (A) Grass hay production and harvesting in the field area surrounding the existing barns. The primary benefit of the grass hay production and harvesting will be weed and fire danger control.  (B) Plant, raise and harvest non-wholesale/retail nursery stock for use by the agencies of the State of Oregon.  (b) Educational opportunities including, but not limited to:  (A) Utilization of portions of the property to engage in approved programs of education, training, and restorative activities.  (B) Making the property available for use as a field study site for educational programs offered by colleges and universities.  (c) Signage: The department may place signs on the property, including but not limited to, signs to identify boundaries and plant species.  (5) If there are any changes to the utilization of the Savanna Haven Property as specified in this rule, the department shall provide reasonable opportunity for public comment by scheduling a rulemaking hearing. Pursuant to ORS 183.335, the department shall give notice of the rulemaking hearing to the following:  (a) Legislators as specified in ORS 183.335(15);  (b) Interested parties maintained on the department’s mailing list pursuant to ORS 183.335(8);  (c) Individuals and organizations who own land bordering the Savanna Haven Property;  (d) City of Salem Public Works Director; and  (e) Marion County Planning Director. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 184.423, 276.054, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 8-2014, f. & cert. ef. 3-3-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
