



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 HEALTH PROMOTION AND CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION 
 333-010-0300 
 Tobacco Prevention and Education Program: Definitions 
 
 (1) “Centers for Disease Control and Prevention” means the federal agency of the Department of Health and Human Services responsible for promoting health and quality of life through the prevention and control of disease, injury and disability.  (2) “Conference of Local Health Officials” means All local health officers and public health administrators, appointed pursuant to ORS 431.418 and such other local health personnel as may be included by the rules of the conference.  (3) “Contractor” means an independent contractor or corporation that performs a service(s) for an Agency, when an Agency has no right to and does not control the means and manner of performing the contract, except as to the delivery schedule, determining compliance with the Statement of Work, and accepting or rejecting the deliverables or results required under the contract.  (4) “Director” means the Assistant Director of the Oregon Public Health Division or his/her designee.  (5) “Environmental Tobacco Smoke” means the mixture of smoke from the burning end of a cigarette, pipe, or cigar, and the smoke exhaled from the lungs of smokers. It is also referred to as “second-hand smoke.”  (6) “Governor’s Tobacco Reduction Advisory Committee” has the meaning given that term in Executive Order 97-10.  (7) “Local Coalition” means an organization of individuals representing diverse groups, factions, or constituencies from a community who agree to work together to achieve the common goal of reducing tobacco use and its impact on the health and economic well-being of the community.  (8) “Local Health Department” means the county or district public health agency or the provider of public health services authorized by the county or district.  (9) “Local Lead Agency” means a local health department, local governmental, or not-for-profit health-related organization designated by a local health department within a county, that submits a proposal to the Oregon Public Health Division for a grant under the “Local Coalition and Community-Based Programs” section of these rules.  (10) “Proposal” means a written response submitted in application to the Oregon Public Health Division’s Tobacco Prevention and Education Program Request for Proposals.  (11) “Request for Proposals (RFP)” means a written document issued by the Public Health Division calling for proposals for services or activities to be performed by a grantee or contractor under the terms of these rules.  (12) “School district” means a taxing disctrict within the state that provides public elementary and secondary education K-12, or an education service district (ESD), or a state operated school, or any legally constituted combination of such entities.  (13) “Superintendent” means the State Superintendent of Public Instruction of the Department of Education or his or her designee.  (14) “Tobacco-Free Coalition of Oregon” (TOFCO) means the broad-based alliance of people and organizations that created the Oregon Statewide Tobacco Prevention Plan, and whose goal is to reduce tobacco use and decrease the human and economic costs of tobacco use among Oregonians. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 431.834 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 431.831 - 431.836 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 11-1997, f. & cert. ef. 9-12-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
