



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 650 RECREATION PARKS AND ORGANIZATIONAL CAMPS 
 918-650-0045 
 General Construction Requirements 
 
 General:  (1) Combination Parks. The portions of combination parks which are dedicated to campground, organizational camp, picnic park, mobile home park or recreational vehicle park use must be identified and each use must comply with the applicable regulations. Jointly used areas must be designated accordingly.  (2) Space Separation and Designation. Building or space separation and space designation must be as follows:  (a) The distance between buildings must be as required in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;  (b) The distance between spaces must be as provided in OAR 918-650-0055(1);  (c) Spaces must be identified by signs or markings corresponding to the letters, numbers or names indicated on the approved plans.  (3) Access. Each space designed for vehicular use within a recreation park or organizational camp must have direct access to a park, street or road. The access may not be obstructed by grade or vertical clearance. The entrance to roads with impaired clearance must be provided with warning signs.  (4) Street Width. Park streets intended for use by the public must be of adequate width to accommodate the planned parking and traffic load. Each traffic lane must be ten feet minimum width. Where parking is permitted on park streets, each parking lane must be ten feet minimum width. All two-way streets without parking must be 20 feet minimum width.  (5) Connection to a Public Way. The park street system must have direct connection to a public way.  (6) Park Roads and Streets. Roads and streets intended for use by the public must be designed for minimum nine-ton gross loads and streets and walkways must be well drained. The street surface may be asphaltic-concrete, portland cement concrete, crushed rock, gravel or other approved surface material.  (7) Cleanable Construction. Fireplaces, fire pits or cooking facilities must be of cleanable construction and designed to permit easy removal of ash and other waste.  (8) Screens. All openings, except doors with self-closing devices, into the outer air of permanent kitchens, dining rooms, toilets and shower facilities must be effectively screened. Screens may not be less than sixteen mesh per inch, and all screen doors must be equipped with a self-closing device.  (9) Solid Waste Containers. Solid waste containers must be in place at the time of final inspection. Solid waste containers or bins must:  (a) Have tight-fitting lids, covers or closable tops; and  (b) Be durable, rust-resistant, water tight, rodent-proof and washable;  (c)(A) Containers in recreational vehicle parks must be provided at a rate of one 30-gallon container for each four recreational vehicle parking spaces and be located within 300 feet of each recreational vehicle parking space. Containers may be grouped;  (B) Containers in picnic parks, campgrounds and organizational camps must be provided at a rate of one 30-gallon container for each 20 occupants or fraction thereof that the camp or park is designed to accommodate. Containers may be grouped.  EXCEPTION: The requirement for solid waste containers in picnic parks, campgrounds and organizational camps may be waived by the regulating authority for areas not accessible by road.  (10) Water Systems in Flood Zones. Potable water systems located in, or partially in flood zones, must be provided with valves to isolate that portion of the system in the flood zone from the rest of the system, and fittings must be installed to permit flushing and treatment of the flood zone portion of the water system.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 455.020, 455.110 & 455.680 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 455.680 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 26-2011, f. 9-30-11, cert. ef. 10-1-11 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCA 10-1987, f. & ef. 9-18-87, Renumbered from 814-029-0090 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
