



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0314 
 Veneer and Plywood Machinery 
 
 NOTE: 1910.265(c) and (d) also apply to Veneer and Plywood Machinery. (See OAR 437-002-0313(1).)  (1) Purpose. The purpose of this rule is to prescribe minimum requirements for veneer and plywood operations.  (2) Veneer Lathe.  (a) A mechanical lock shall be provided to prevent the back-up roll from closing until activated by the operator.  (b) A guard or positive interlock and necessary hydraulic or air controls shall be provided to prevent forward movement of the charger, if such movement may be hazardous.  (c) Positive means shall be provided to hold the head in the open position while servicing the knife.  (d) A protective device for the knife edge shall be provided for use when transporting the knife.  (e) Where there is a hazard from “exploding” logs, both lathe operator’s and charger operator’s stations shall be protected against flying slabs and chips.  (f) Means shall be provided in the knife grinding area to drain cleaning or cooling liquids from the work station.  (g) Knives and other cutting equipment shall be stored in planned storage areas.  (h) The area under the elevating ramp (tipple) from the lathe to the stock trays shall be guarded to prevent entrance while the lathe is in operation.  (3) Veneer Slicer. The veneer slicer knife shall be guarded at front and rear to prevent accidental contact with the knife edge.  (4) Veneer Clipper.  (a) Clippers shall be provided with a guard on both infeed and outfeed sides to protect the employees.  (b) Each operating treadle for veneer clippers shall be covered by a device which is adequate to avoid accidental activation or tripping.  (5) Veneer Cutter.  (a) Power-driven guillotine veneer cutters (except continuous feed trimmers) shall be equipped with the following:  (A) A starting device which requires the simultaneous action of both hands to start the cutting motion, and at least one hand on a control during the complete stroke of the knife; or  (B) An automatic device which will remove the hands of the operator from the danger zone at every descent of the blade used in conjunction with one-hand starting devices which require two distinct movements of the device to start the cutting motion.  (b) All power-driven veneer cutters shall be so designed that the knife positively returns to the starting position after each complete cycle of the knife.  (c) Where two or more workers are employed at the same time on the same power-driven guillotine veneer cutter equipped with two-hand control, the device shall be so arranged that each worker shall be required to use both hands shall be required to use both hands simultaneously on the controls to start the cutting motion, and at least one hand on a control to complete the cut.  Note: The controls should be of a type that cannot be defeated by tying down one of them.  (d) In addition to the brake or other stopping mechanism, a nonrepeat device shall be provided which will prevent the machine from operating in the event of a mechanical failure.  (e) Where no other device serves as protection, a guard running the length of the knife shall be installed on the infeed side.  (f) A protective device, such as side shields, shall be provided on the outfeed side.  (g) A protective device for the knife edge shall be provided for use when transporting the knife.  (h) Positive means of opening and locking the control circuit and supporting the mechanism in the “up” position shall be provided for use during knife changes.  (i) When the hold-down clamp and knife are in their uppermost positions, the knife edge shall not extend below the lower edge of the hold-down clamp.  (6) Tray System.  (a) The tray system shall be equipped with controls at each end so that the system cannot be operated unless both switches are in the “on” position.  (b) A walkway shall be constructed the entire length of the trays so that the top tray can be reached in the event of a “plug-up” without having to climb up the frames.  (7) Veneer Dryer.  (a) A standard stairway and catwalk across the tray lines shall be constructed to provide safe access in the event of a “plug-up” and dryer feed controls, including a positive lockout, shall be provided at the feeders’ station.  (b) Steam lines outside the dryer which may be contacted by personnel shall be insulated or enclosed.  (c) Suitable gloves and aprons shall be worn by workers off-bearing veneer from chain or table.  (d) Where a band saw is used to trim panel core, it shall be guarded in accordance with 1910.265(e)(2)(ii)(C).  (8) Hot Press or Veneer Press.  (a) Steam lines which may be contacted by personnel shall be insulated or enclosed.  (b) Standard guardrails shall be provided on the ends of loading and unloading elevators or hoist platforms or both. (See Division 2/D.)  (c) Hot-press hoists shall be provided with a braking and holding mechanism which will operate automatically in case of failure of lifting chains or cables.  (d) On a hot-press equipped with an automatic charger, an electrically interlocked gate or chain shall be provided across the opening between the charger and the press which, when opened, will open the circuit to prevent the charger from moving.  (e) Where two workers are employed in loading the press, closing control devices shall be provided within reach of each work station, so interconnected as to require activation of both controls to operate the press, and a quick opening device shall be provided at each station on the press hoist platform.  (f) Floor openings on non-working sides of press and pit shall be protected with standard guardrails. (See Division 2/D.)  (g) Means shall be provided for safe access into the press pit, the top of the press, and each side, and a positive means of blocking up the hoist platform.  (9) Stripsaw and Patch Machine.  (a) An antikickback device and hood guard shall be provided on the veneer stripsaw.  (b) The patch machine shall be guarded to prevent operator’s hands from entering the punch area, and the foot treadle shall be guarded.  (10) Veneer Chipper and Hogs.  (a) The top feed roll shall be equipped with a guard and a shield or panel shall be provided on the operator’s side to prevent operator from reaching the roll.  (b) Chippers and hogs shall be guarded in accordance with 1910.265(c)(20)(i) through (c)(21)(ii)(C). Feed conveyors to chippers and hogs shall be guarded in accordance with OAR 437-002-0313(2).  (11) Electronic Laminating Press and Edge Gluer.  (a) Interlocked gates shall be provided on infeed and outfeed sides of batch-type presses which are interlocked to prevent power being activated until gates are completely lowered.  (b) Shielding shall be provided to protect against harmful exposure to radiation that may be emitted.  (c) All screens and filters shall be equipped with interlocks which will shut off all power in the event they are removed.  (12) Edge Gluer Jointer.  (a) A barrier shall be installed at the end of the travel of the head to prevent flying splinters from injuring personnel.  (b) A gate shall be installed to prevent access between the edge gluer jointer and the grasshopper, so arranged that when the gate is opened, all electricity, air, and hydraulic lines will be shut off and the cylinders bled.  (c) A device should be positioned across the front of the infeed nip point, so arranged as to shut off the equipment if contact is made with it.  (13) Wide Belt Sanders. Wide-belt sanders shall be equipped with non-kickback fingers and a barrier at the infeed side adjusted to prevent more than one panel entering the sander at a time. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 2-2017, f. 5-16-17, cert. ef. 11-1-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 7-1993, f. 6-8-93, cert. ef. 8-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
