



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-3140 
 Wickiup Reservoir and Tributaries including the Deschutes River up to Crane Prairie Dam 
 
 Policies and objectives for fish management in Wickiup Reservoir and Tributaries including the Deschutes River up to Crane Prairie Dam of the upper Deschutes River Subbasin.  (1) Policies for fish management in Wickiup Reservoir and Tributaries including the Deschutes River up to Crane Prairie Dam:  (a) Brown trout shall be managed for natural and hatchery production consistent with the Trophy Fish Management Alternative for trout;  (b) Kokanee, and mountain whitefish shall be managed for natural production consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout. No hatchery kokanee or mountain whitefish shall be stocked;  (c) Coho shall be managed for hatchery production consistent with the Basic Yield Management Alternative for trout;  (d) Brook trout shall not be stocked in Wickiup Reservoir and its tributaries;  (e) Redband and rainbow trout shall be managed for natural production consistent with the Featured Species Alternative for trout. No hatchery rainbow trout shall be stocked.  (2) Objectives for fish management in Wickiup Reservoir and Tributaries including the Deschutes River up to Crane Prairie Dam:  (a) Maintain the genetic diversity, adaptiveness, and abundance of indigenous redband trout, mountain whitefish and naturally produced brown trout;  (b) Provide a trophy fishery for naturally produced brown trout as measured by the proportion of fish examined in the creel over 20 inches in Wickiup Reservoir and its tributaries;  (c) Provide diverse angling opportunities for a consumptive and/or non-consumptive fishery on naturally producing mountain whitefish, brown trout, rainbow trout, coho, and kokanee. Provide viewing opportunities for spawning fish;  (d) Protect, enhance, and restore trout and whitefish habitat in Wickiup Reservoir and its tributaries;  (e) Work with the land managers and irrigation districts to maintain and improve public access;  (f) Determine the feasibility and desirability of restoring bull trout in Wickiup Reservoir and its tributaries. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 59-1996, f. 9-27-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
