



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Office of the State Chief Information Officer - Chapter 128 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 Providing Broadband Services and Operations to Non-State Entities 
 128-010-0045 
 Community of Interest 
 
 (1) Community of Interest. An entity may apply to the Office to be classified as a Community of Interest for purpose of these rules by submitting an application to the Office that includes the following items and required information: 

 (a) Applicant’s name, home and office addresses and telephone numbers. 

 (b) Applicant’s mailing address, if different from its listed home and office addresses. 

 (c) Evidence of applicant’s nonprofit and tax exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (a copy of the Internal Revenue Service determination letter, or advance ruling, indicating that applicant is a section 501(c)(3) tax exempt organization shall meet this requirement). 

 (d) Evidence that applicant has complied with the relevant provisions of ORS 65.001 to 65.990, and is registered with the Oregon Secretary of State to do business in Oregon as a nonprofit corporation. 

 (e) Statement and supporting evidence that applicant’s mission is primarily to conduct activities for the direct benefit or good to the public or community-at-large in Oregon in one or more of the following public service areas: 

 (A) Educational 

 (B) Economic Development 

 (C) Health Care 

 (D) Human Services 

 (E) Public Safety 

 (F) Library 

 (f) Identification of the community-at-large served, if not readily apparent from the applicant’s mission and activity statement and description. 

 (g) Evidence of applicant’s current affiliation with a federal, state or local governmental unit within the State of Oregon, if any. 

 (h) Signature of applicant or its authorized representative. 

 (2) The Office shall approve or deny a submitted application within twenty (20) business days from actual receipt of the application. Following the Office’s approval of a submitted application, a written Community of Interest designation (“Designation”) shall be issued to the successful applicant. Upon receipt of the Designation, a Community of Interest may enter into a formal agreement with the Office to extend to the Community of Interest certain benefits of communications contracts for networks, equipment and services negotiated and executed by the State of Oregon. 

 (3) A Community of Interest Designation is a privilege, not a right. Designation expires one (1) year from the date of issuance. However, the Office may cancel a Designation prior to its normal expiration for cause based upon clear and convincing evidence of either of the following: 

 (a) A finding that the designee is abusing, or has abused, its status as a Community of Interest. Abuse of Community of Interest status includes, but is not limited to, the designee’s resale of extended state telecommunications contract benefits. 

 (b) A finding that the designee can no longer satisfy the criteria under these rules to continue qualifying as a Community of Interest. 

 (4) Organizations seeking Community of Interest redesignation must follow the same process and are subject to the same eligibility requirements as if applying for an initial Designation. Organizations seeking redesignation must submit their completed applications thirty (30) business days prior to the annual expiration date for their current Designation. Timely submissions will operate to extend the current Designation to cover the period necessary to review and take action on the new application for redesignation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Or Laws 2018, ch 51 (HB 4023) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSCIO 1-2019, adopt filed 03/26/2019, effective 03/26/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
