



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 86 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING — ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICES 
 411-086-0230 
 Activity Services 
 
 (1) Activity Program. The facility shall have an activity program available to all residents which encourages each resident to maintain normal activity and to return to self-care. The program shall address the intellectual, social, spiritual, creative, and physical need(s), capabilities, and interests of each resident, and shall encourage resident self-direction:  (a) The program shall encourage involvement and allow each resident to attain and maintain function at his/her highest practical level, and shall include both group and individual activities;  (b) Residents and staff will be informed of scheduled activities;  (c) The program shall include activities meaningful to the residents at least six days per week including:  (A) Gross motor activities (e.g., exercise, dancing, gardening, crafts);  (B) Individual self-care activities designed to enhance personal responsibility and choice (e.g., dressing, personal hygiene);  (C) Social activities (e.g., games, outside activities, field trips); and  (D) Sensory enhancement activities (e.g., pictures, music, olfactory and tactile stimulation, reminiscing, pet therapy).  (d) The facility shall provide equipment, supplies and space to meet individual and group activity needs.  (2) Activity Director. The facility shall employ an Activity Director. He/she shall have a written job description which identifies the duties and responsibilities of the position, including the requirements set forth by this rule:  (a) Qualifications. The Director shall meet one of the following:  (A) Have two years experience in a social or recreational program within the past five years, one of which was full-time in a patient activities program in a health care setting; or  (B) Be eligible for certification as a therapeutic recreation specialist by a recognized accrediting body; or  (C) Be a qualified occupational therapist or occupational therapy assistant; or  (D) Have completed a 36-hour activities workshop. The workshop must be conducted by an individual with a master’s or bachelor’s degree in recreation therapy or a closely related field, or by a registered occupational therapist. Such individual must have at least one year of experience in long-term care services. The course must cover the subject matters identified in Exhibit 1, which is attached to and made a part of these rules.  (b) Responsibilities. The Director shall:  (A) Ensure the provision of an activities program as required by this rule and adherence to facility policy (OAR 411-085-0210);  (B) Plan and participate in activities inservice required by OAR 411-086-0310.  (3) Staffing. The facility shall have adequate staffing to carry out the activity program.  (4) Activities Plan. Each resident shall have an activities plan for independent and group activities which is incorporated into the comprehensive care plan. The plan shall include, but not be limited to, past and current interests and activities, skills, medical limitations, and cognitive and emotional functioning:  (a) Activity services shall be available to the resident in accordance with the preliminary resident care plan not later than 24 hours after admission;  (b) The activities plan shall be reviewed and updated as frequently as the resident’s condition or needs change, but no less often than quarterly;  (c) The clinical record shall contain written instructions or orders from the resident’s attending physician stating the level of activity allowed and any activity restrictions.  (5) Documentation:  (a) The involvement of each resident shall be documented in the resident’s clinical record, including the type of activity and the degree of participation;  (b) Progress notes relevant to the activities plan shall be documented in the resident’s clinical record as frequently as the resident’s condition changes, but no less often than quarterly.  [ED NOTE: Exhibits referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070, 410.090 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 8-1993, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 19-1990, f. 8-29-90, cert. ef. 10-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
