



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 18 STATE PARK MASTER PLANNING 
 736-018-0040 
 Minor Variations from Master Plans 
 
 The Director may propose park uses or facilities that vary from the provisions of adopted master plans without amending the master plans, provided that such variations are minor. Prior to applying for local government permits for a use or facility that varies from the master plan provisions, the Director shall determine whether the proposed variation is minor or major. Such determinations by the Director are not intended to be directive to local governments. In making the determination, the Director shall review the proposed variation for consistency with the state park master planning criteria described under OAR 736-018-0020. A variation from a master plan may be determined by the Director to be minor if it is consistent with the statewide goals and ORS 215.296 and is not expected to cause significant impacts on adjacent land uses, other uses in the park, local public services, transportation systems or important natural, cultural or scenic resources. Further:  (1) A location change for a planned park facility may be determined by the Director to be minor if it does not cause the facility to serve a different park use area.  (2) The following limitations shall apply to the Director’s determinations involving minor expansions of planned park facilities:  (a) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the floor area of any planned permanent building, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the following: toilet and shower buildings; garbage and recycling collection buildings; campground registration and storage buildings; and any other accessory building that does not exceed 120 square feet after expansion;  (b) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned bedrooms in any lodge, inn, bed and breakfast, barracks or bunkhouse, or group of cabins, or in any park use area;  (c) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned camp sites in any general or group camping area;  (d) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned parking spaces in any parking lot or park use area;  (e) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the surface area of any planned road for purposes of improving safety, realignment or widening; and  (f) Extension of a road to provide access to a planned use that is expanded or relocated under the provisions of this rule may be considered minor only to the extent needed to serve the expanded or relocated use.  (3) A proposal for a different kind or location of park use area from those in the adopted master plan shall not be considered a minor variation.  (4) Within an existing or planned park use area, a proposal for a park facility that is different from the kind of park facilities in that park use area in the adopted master plan shall not be considered a minor variation, except that proposals for the following different facilities may be considered minor variations: toilet and shower buildings; garbage and recycling facilities; campground registration and storage buildings; any other accessory structure not exceeding 120 square feet; alternative camping structures such as yurts, camper cabins, tepees and covered wagons in planned or existing tent and RV sites; picnic shelters in day use areas; and trails.  (5) Outside of existing and planned park use areas, new trails located at least 300 feet from the nearest park boundary may be considered minor variations from adopted master plans. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 9-1998, f. 7-29-98, cert. ef. 7-31-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
