



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 261 ELECTRICAL EXEMPTIONS 
 918-261-0000 
 Partial Board Exemption for Medical Diagnostic Imaging and Therapy Equipment 
 
 (1) An exemption from electrical licensing of ORS 479.620 is created under ORS 479.540 for certain persons installing or working on designated medical equipment under this rule.  (a) Only the following medical equipment can be involved: General X-ray systems, vascular systems, computer tomography scanners (CT), magnetic resonance imaging systems (MRI), nuclear medicine systems, positron emission tomography scanners (PET), radiation therapy systems, image-guided therapy systems, dental radiographic, panographic systems, film processors and newly developed imaging or therapy equipment approved by order of the board;  (b) Only the following electrical installations are allowed: Assembly, interconnection, equipment modification and retrofit, calibrations, testing, maintenance and trouble shooting;  (c) Only electrical licensing is exempted. A permit pursuant to ORS 479.550 and inspection are required, and the installation shall comply with the Electrical Specialty Code; and  (d) The persons performing the work must meet the requirements of section (3) of this rule.  (2) An exemption from the permit requirements of ORS 479.550 and licensing requirements of 479.620 is created under 479.540, for repair, maintenance, parts replacement, calibration, testing and trouble shooting involving assemblies and components of the equipment described in subsection (1)(a) of this rule on the load side of the power source.  (a) Only the following are exempted: Super conducting magnet, gantry, patient tables, computer cabinets, system cabinets, operator consoles, display consoles, x-ray generators, x-ray tubes, collimators, hanger assemblies, filming devices, transducers, detector assemblies, modulator, wave guides, accelerating tube, radiation head, water cooling systems, portable systems, and all sublevel assemblies and components;  (b) The person doing the work must meet the qualifications of section (3) of this rule;  (c) All electrical work shall comply with the Electrical Specialty Code; and  (d) Different exempt components shall not be combined to exempt a complete system under section (2) of this rule.  (3) Only qualified personnel are authorized to make the electrical installations in sections (1) and (2) of this rule. The installation is exempt if the person making the installation is:  (a) An employee or agent of a manufacturer, with training in installation, warranty work and maintenance involving the specific product of the manufacturer;  (b) A contractor or employee of a contractor, if the contractor is a business entity other than a sole proprietor, who has training by the manufacturer or a nationally recognized training facility to perform the specific work on the specific type product of the manufacturer; or  (c) An employee or agent of a health care facility which owns or leases the medical equipment with training by the manufacturer or a nationally recognized training facility to perform the specific work on the specific type product of the manufacturer.  (4) Procedure for proving exemptions.  (a) The exemption is self-executing. A person claiming the exemption has the burden of proof to show, upon request by an electrical inspector or compliance person, that the person meets the relevant requirements of section (3) of this rule; and  (b) A certificate from the manufacturer or equivalent training facility showing the name of the person, scope of training, including the work in question, and identifying the particular equipment or types of equipment, date of issuance, period for certification and any limitations on the certification, shall meet the requirements of this section.  (5) Revocation of Exemption. In addition to civil penalties for violations, the board may revoke partially or completely the right to use this exemption up to one year for a first violation of subsection (2)(d) of this rule, and up to five years for a second violation or subsequent violations.  (6) Prohibited Installations. The following installations are not exempt under sections (1) or (2) of this rule and shall only be made by qualified licensed electrical personnel:  (a) All work on electrical distribution systems within the constructed facility housing the equipment. This includes installation of electrical supply to the primary supply connection of the medical equipment; and  (b) Installation of electrical raceways and conduits interconnecting major components of the medical systems.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 19-1995, f. 9-17-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96, Renumbered from 918-330-0125 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 13-1994, f. 4-29-94, cert. ef. 5-2-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
