



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 307 PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAXATION 
 150-307-0280 
 Qualifications for Exemption of Mutual or Cooperative Telephone Associations 
 
 (1) Qualifying Conditions. Property owned by a mutual or cooperative telephone association is qualified for exemption if all the following conditions are satisfied:  (a) Ownership. The property must be owned by an association of persons that:  (A) Is wholly mutual or cooperative in character, whether incorporated or not. The characteristics of a mutual or cooperative association are:  (i) Each incorporated association is organized as a cooperative association or, if organized as a nonprofit organization, its bylaws provide that it operate as a cooperative association.  (ii) Each unincorporated association provides in its bylaws that the association is mutual or cooperative in character and is not to produce profit.  (iii) While one member may hold more stock or shares in the association than another member, voting cannot be based on ownership of shares, stock, certificates, or other evidence of their interest. Voting must be restricted to one vote to a member, or in proportion to their actual, estimated or potential patronage, as the bylaws may provide, except that in no event may any one member thereby exercise a majority vote.  (iv) All members must share proportionately, according to their evidence of interest, in the cost of construction, maintenance, and operation of the association’s properties, and in the division of any surplus or reserves accumulated when such a surplus or reserve is not necessary for proper maintenance or construction of such system or all members must share in proportion to their patronage as the bylaws may provide.  (B) Operates without profit in money.  (C) Has no business or purpose other than the provision of telephone communications service.  (b) Use. All persons served must be members and must own shares, stock, certificates, or other evidence of their interest.  (c) Value. The association’s telephone property has a real market value of not more than $2,500 as determined by the Department of Revenue.  (d) Operation. The association’s telephone communication system operation is conducted without the ownership, operation or lease of telephonic switchboard exchange facilities, or direct or indirect ownership of stock in any telephone switchboard association, partnership or corporation.  (2) Eligible Property. Property that may qualify for exemption includes all property consisting of improvements, fixtures, equipment and supplies used exclusively in the construction, maintenance, and operation of a telephone communication system. Examples of property that may qualify for exemption include but are not restricted to:  (a) Poles, crossarms, guy stubs and guy wire;  (b) Aerial wire;  (c) Aerial or underground cable;  (d) Suspension strand;  (e) Insulators;  (f) Terminals;  (g) Drop and blockwire;  (h) Telephones.  (3) Ineligible Property. The following types of property that cannot qualify for exemption will be classified and assessed pursuant to ORS 308.505 to 308.660.  (a) Parcels of land and buildings owned, leased, rented, chartered or otherwise held for or used by an association in a telephone communication system.  (b) Any other property not owned by the association but used or held by it in a telephone communication system.  (c) Any property owned, leased, rented, chartered or otherwise held by an association and not used in providing telephone communication. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 307.220 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-307.220-(B), REV 55-2016, f. 8-13-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 REV 10-2002, f. & cert. ef. 12-31-02 
11-71 
3-70 
1-66 
6-61 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
