



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 121 LICENSING AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR IRRADIATORS 
 333-121-0340 
 Detection of Leaking Sources 
 
 (1) Each dry-source-storage sealed source must be tested for leakage at intervals not to exceed six months using a leak test kit or method approved by the Authority, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an Agreement State, or a Licensing State. In the absence of a certificate from a transferor that a test has been made within the six months before the transfer, the sealed source may not be used until tested. The test must be capable of detecting the presence of 200 becquerels (0.005 uCi) of radioactive material and must be performed by a person approved by the Authority, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an Agreement State, or a Licensing State to perform the test.  (2) For pool irradiators, sources may not be put into the pool unless the licensee tests the sources for leaks or has a certificate from a transferor that leak test has been done within the six months before the transfer. Water from the pool must be checked for contamination each day the irradiator operates. The check may be done either by using a radiation monitor on a pool water circulating system or by analysis of a sample of pool water. If a check for contamination is done by analysis of a sample of pool water, the results of the analysis must be available within 24 hours. If the licensee uses a radiation monitor on a pool water circulating system, the detection of above normal radiation levels must activate an alarm. The alarm set-point must be set as low as practical, but high enough to avoid false alarms. The licensee may reset the alarm set-point to a higher level if necessary to operate the pool water purification system to clear up contamination in the pool if specifically provided for in written emergency procedures.  (3) If a leaking source is detected, the licensee must arrange to remove the leaking source from service and have it decontaminated, repaired, or disposed of by an Authority, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an Agreement State, or a Licensing State licensee that is authorized to perform these functions. The licensee must promptly check its personnel, equipment, facilities, and irradiated product for radioactive contamination. No product may be shipped until the product has been checked and found free of contamination. If a product has been shipped that may have been inadvertently contaminated, the licensee must arrange to locate and survey that product for contamination. If any personnel are found to be contaminated, decontamination must be performed promptly. If contaminated equipment, facilities, or products are found, the licensee must arrange to have them decontaminated or disposed of by an Authority, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, an Agreement State, or a Licensing State licensee that is authorized to perform these functions. If a pool is contaminated, the licensee must arrange to clean the pool until the contamination levels do not exceed the appropriate concentration in Table 2, Column 2, Appendix B of 10 CFR 20. See 333-120-0700 for reporting requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 5-2005, f. & cert. ef. 4-11-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
