



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 MISCELLANEOUS, ORDERS IN OTHER THAN CONTESTED CASE 
 137-004-0800 
 Public Records Personal Safety Exemption 
 
 (1) An individual may request that a public body not disclose the information in a specified public record that indicates the home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address of the individual. If the individual demonstrates to the satisfaction of the public body that the personal safety of the individual or the personal safety of a family member residing with the individual is in danger if the home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address remains available for public inspection, the public body may not disclose that information from the specified public record, except in compliance with a court order, to a law enforcement agency at the request of the law enforcement agency, or with the consent of the individual.  (2) A request under subsection (1) of this rule shall be submitted to the custodian of public records for the public record that is the subject of the request. The request shall be in writing, signed by the requestor, and shall include:  (a) The name or a description of the public record sufficient to identify the record;  (b) A mailing address for the requestor;  (c) Evidence sufficient to establish to the satisfaction of the public body that disclosure of the requestor's home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address would constitute a danger to the personal safety of the requestor or of a family member residing with the requestor. Such evidence may include the following documents:  (A) Documentary evidence, including a written statement, that establishes to the satisfaction of the public body that disclosure of the requestor's home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address would constitute a danger to the personal safety of the requestor or of a family member residing with the requestor;  (B) A citation or an order issued under ORS 133.055 for the protection of the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (C) An affidavit or police reports showing that a law enforcement officer has been contacted concerning domestic violence, other physical abuse or threatening or harassing letters or telephone calls directed at the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (D) A temporary restraining order or other no-contact order to protect the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor from future physical abuse;  (E) Court records showing that criminal or civil legal proceedings have been filed regarding physical protection for the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (F) A citation or a court's stalking protective order pursuant to ORS 163.735 or 163.738, issued or obtained for the protection of the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (G) An affidavit or police reports showing that the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor has been a victim of a person convicted of the crime of stalking or of violating a court's stalking protective order;  (H) A conditional release agreement issued under ORS 135.250–260 providing protection for the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (I) A protective order issued pursuant to ORS 135.873 or 135.970 protecting the identity or place of residence of the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor;  (J) An affidavit from a district attorney or deputy district attorney stating that the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor is scheduled to testify or has testified as a witness at a criminal trial, grand jury hearing or preliminary hearing and that such testimony places the personal safety of the witness in danger;  (K) A court order stating that the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor is or has been a party, juror, judge, attorney or involved in some other capacity in a trial, grand jury proceeding or other court proceeding and that such involvement places the personal safety of that individual in danger; or  (L) An affidavit, medical records, police reports or court records showing that the requestor or a family member residing with the requestor has been a victim of domestic violence.  (3) A public body receiving a request under this rule promptly shall review the request and notify the requestor, in writing, whether the evidence submitted is sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the public body that the personal safety of the requestor or of a family member residing with the requestor would be in danger if the home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address remains available for public inspection. The public body may request that the requestor submit additional information concerning the request.  (4) If a public body grants the request for exemption with respect to records other than a voter registration record, the public body shall include a statement in its notice to the requestor that:  (a) The exemption remains effective for five years from the date the public body received the request, unless the requestor submits a written request for termination of the exemption before the end of the five years; and  (b) The requestor may make a new request for exemption at the end of the five years. If a public body grants the request for exemption with respect to a voter registration record, the public body shall include a statement in its notice to the requestor that:  (A) The exemption remains effective until the requestor must update the individual's voter registration, unless the requestor submits a written request for termination of the exemption before that time; and  (B) The requestor may make a new request for exemption from disclosure at that time.  (5) A person who has requested that a public body not disclose his or her home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address may revoke the request by notifying, in writing, the public body to which the request was made that disclosure no longer constitutes a danger to personal safety. The notification shall be signed by the person who submitted the original request for nondisclosure of the home address, personal telephone number or personal electronic mail address.  (6) This rule does not apply to county property and lien records.  (7) As used in this rule:  (a) "Custodian" has the meaning given that term in ORS 192.410(1);  (b) "Public body" has the same meaning given that phrase in ORS 192.410(3). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.445 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.445 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 12-2005, f. 10-31-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 14-2003, f. & cert. ef. 12-9-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 8-2001, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-01, Renumbered from 137-004-0100 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 8-1995, 8-25-95, cert. ef. 9-9-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 6-1993, f. 11-1-93, cert. ef. 11-4-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
