



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 USE OF WILDLIFE IN COMPETITIVE HUNTING DOG TRIALS AND THE TRAINING OF HUNTING DOGS AND RAPTORS 
 635-046-0050 
 Use of Wildlife for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training
 
 
 (1) Upland game birds, except sage grouse, sharp-tailed grouse, and spruce grouse, may be pursued to train hunting dogs from September through January, or as permitted by these rules. 

 (2) No person may release any domestically-raised game birds without first obtaining a “Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training” from the Department. With such a permit, the Department authorizes the permittee and his or her designees to release domestically-raised game birds for the sole purpose of training hunting dogs and raptors and to operate recall pens on private lands to recapture those same game birds. 

 (a) A designee(s) must possess a copy of the permittee’s permit or written authorization from the permittee to release domestically-raised game birds on his or her behalf. 

 (b) The permit is immediately valid upon completion of the application when signed by the permittee. A copy of the completed permit must be submitted to the Department as indicated on the permit. 

 (c) There is no cost for this permit and there will be no limit to the number of permits that will be available. 

 (d) Permits are valid from date of issue through December 31. 

 (e) On Department owned or managed lands, the release of domestically-raised game birds for hunting dog or raptor training is prohibited except in designated dog training areas where release is specifically allowed by wildlife area rule, and, if required by the wildlife area, the individual has a special permit specific to that wildlife area for activities allowed under these rules. 

 (f) The following species are permitted for release under this permit: common pheasant (all races of Phasianus colchicus, most commonly ring-necked); California (valley), bobwhite and Coturnix quail; Hungarian (gray), chukar, and red-legged partridge; or mallards, provided such birds were lawfully acquired and, except for bobwhite and Coturnix quail, are marked birds. 

 (g) If at any time one or more people are training hunting dogs or raptors with domestically-raised game birds released under a valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training, the following items must be in the possession of at least one of those persons: 

 (i) At least one valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training. 

 (ii) A sales receipt from the propagator or a written note of origin containing the name and address of the person from whom the birds were acquired, which specifies the number and species of game birds which have been or are going to be released. 

 (iii) One or more hunting dogs or raptors. 

 (h) A holder of a Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training must annually report to the Department the number and species of game birds released by county. 

 (3) Domestically-raised game birds lawfully released under a valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training may be pursued or taken in any number by shooting or falconry for the sole purpose of training hunting dogs and raptors, provided that: 

 (a) At least one person participating in the training possesses a valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training. 

 (b) The birds are pursued or taken on the same day they are released. However, if the birds are pursued or taken by the same individual(s) as part of a multi-day training session, the birds must be pursued or taken within three consecutive days after the day of release. Bobwhite and Coturnix quail are not subject to the time constraints of this subsection. 

 (c) On Department owned or managed lands, the pursuit and take of domestically-raised game birds for hunting dog or raptor training may occur only in designated dog training areas where pursuit and take is specifically allowed by wildlife area rule, and, if required by the wildlife area, the individual has a special permit specific to that wildlife area for activities allowed under these rules. 

 (4) Carcasses of domestically-raised game birds which were lawfully released under a valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor Training and subsequently taken for hunting dog and raptor training may be possessed in any number by any person, provided that the person holds a valid Game Bird Release Permit for Hunting Dog and Raptor training or a written note from the permittee describing when, where, and for what purpose the birds were taken. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 498.006 & 498.106 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.012, 496.138, 496.146, 498.006 & 498.106 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 179-2018, amend filed 12/04/2018, effective 12/04/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 70-2011, f. 6-15-11, cert. ef. 7-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
