



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Business Services Division - Chapter 167 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 CRIMINAL RECORDS CHECK RULES 
 167-050-0200 
 Representation at Hearing 
 
 (1) Secretary of State Representation. Subject to the approval of the Attorney General, an officer or employee of the Secretary of State is authorized to appear on behalf of the Secretary of State in contested case hearings involving criminal background checks conducted pursuant to these rules. The Secretary of State retains the right to be represented by the Attorney General.  (2) The agency representative may not make legal arguments on behalf of the Secretary of State.  (a) “Legal argument” includes arguments on:  (A) The jurisdiction of the Secretary of State to hear the contested case;  (B) The constitutionality of a statute or rule or the application of a constitutional requirement to the agency; and  (C) The application of court precedent to the facts of the particular contested case proceeding;  (b) “Legal argument” does not include presentation of motions, evidence, examination and cross-examination of witnesses or presentation of factual arguments or arguments on:  (A) The application of the statutes or rules to the facts in the contested case;  (B) Comparison of prior actions of the agency in handling similar situations;  (C) The literal meaning of the statute or rules directly applicable to the issues in the contested case;  (D) The admissibility of evidence; or  (E) The correctness of procedures being followed in the contested case hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.452 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 181.534(9) & (11) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BSD 1-2008, f. & cert. ef. 7-16-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
