



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Energy Facility Siting Council - Chapter 345 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 EXPIRATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF SITE CERTIFICATES, AND DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY APPROVAL OF GAS STORAGE TESTING PIPELINES 
 345-027-0363 
 Determination of Completeness for a Request for Amendment 
 
 (1) Until the Department determines a request for amendment to the site certificate is complete, it is a preliminary request for amendment. After receiving a preliminary request for amendment, the Department may seek comments from reviewing agencies to determine whether that request is complete. 

 (2) Unless the certificate holder agrees to additional time, within 45 days after receipt of a preliminary request for amendment the Department must notify the certificate holder whether the request for amendment is complete. In the notification, the Department must: 

 (a) State that the request for amendment is complete; or 

 (b) State that the request for amendment is incomplete, and: 

 (A) Describe any additional information needed to complete the request for amendment to the extent known to the Department at the time of the notification, including identification of applicable laws and Council standards not addressed in the preliminary request for amendment; 

 (B) Ask the certificate holder to submit the additional information by the due dates described in section (4) of this rule; and 

 (C) Estimate the additional time the Department will need to make a determination of completeness following the submittal of the additional information by the certificate holder. 

 (3) If the Department does not notify the certificate holder as described in section (2) of this rule, the request for amendment is deemed complete 45 days after receipt of a preliminary request for amendment. Otherwise, the request for amendment is complete as determined under section (5) of this rule. 

 (4) The Department may specify a date by which the certificate holder must submit additional information needed to complete the request for amendment. If follow-up requests for additional information are needed, the Department may specify dates by which the certificate holder must submit the information. At the request of the certificate holder, the Department may allow additional time for submission of the information. If the certificate holder does not submit the information by the deadline specified by the Department, including any allowed extension, the Council may reject the preliminary request for amendment. The rejection of a preliminary request for amendment is subject to appeal under ORS 469.403(3). 

 (5) A request for amendment is complete when the Department finds that the certificate holder has submitted information adequate for the Council to make findings or impose conditions on all applicable laws and Council standards. The Department must notify the certificate holder when the Department finds that the request for amendment is complete. 

 (6) After receiving notification from the Department that the preliminary request for amendment is complete, the Department may require the certificate holder to prepare a consolidated request for amendment that includes all revisions to the preliminary request for amendment and all additional information requested by the Department before the determination of completeness. Upon a request by the Department, the certificate holder must submit printed and non-copy-protected electronic copies of the consolidated request for amendment to the Department, as specified by the Department. 

 (7) If, after a determination that a request for amendment is complete, the Department identifies a need for additional information during its review of the request for amendment, the Department may request additional information from the certificate holder. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.470 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.405 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 5-2025, amend filed 10/24/2025, effective 10/24/2025 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 1-2020, adopt filed 01/28/2020, effective 01/28/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EFSC 9-2019, temporary adopt filed 08/22/2019, effective 08/22/2019 through 02/17/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
