



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 29 SALE OF FOREST PRODUCTS FROM LANDS OWNED OR MANAGED BY THE STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY 
 629-029-0110 
 Protest of Contract Award 
 
 (1) Purpose. The purpose of this rule is to require adversely affected or aggrieved bidders on a STATE solicitation for bids to exhaust all avenues of administrative review and relief before seeking judicial review of the STATE’s contract award decision.  (2) Notice of Award.  (a) The STATE’s written notice of contract award (or other contract initiating document, e.g., a notice of intent to award, hereinafter referred to collectively as the “award documents”), shall constitute a final decision of the STATE to award the contract if no written protest of the contract award is filed with the STATE within 14 calendar days following issuance of the award documents. If a protest of contract award is timely filed by an actual aggrieved bidder, the award documents shall constitute a final decision of the STATE only upon issuance to the protesting bidder of a written decision denying the protest and affirming the award.  (b) Unsuccessful bidders will generally not be notified that a contract has been awarded.  (3) Right to protest. Any qualified bidder who is adversely affected or aggrieved by the STATE’s award of the contract to another bidder shall have 14 calendar days after issuance of the award documents to submit a written protest of the award. The written protest shall specify the grounds upon which the protest is based. In order to be an adversely affected or aggrieved bidder with a right to submit a written protest, a bidder must itself claim to be eligible for award of the contract as the highest responsive, responsible bidder and must be next in line for award, i.e., the protester must claim that all higher bidders are ineligible for award:  (a) Because their bids were nonresponsive; or  (b) As a result of the STATE committing a material violation of a solicitation provision or of an applicable procurement statute or administrative rule, the protester was unfairly evaluated and would have, but for such material violation, been the highest bidder. The STATE may not entertain a protest submitted after the time period established in this rule.  (4) Authority to resolve protest. The STATE may settle or resolve a written protest submitted in accordance with the requirements of section (3) of this rule.  (5) Decision. If the protest is not settled or resolved by mutual agreement, the STATE may promptly issue a written decision on the protest. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 1-1997, f. 9-4-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
