



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Early Learning and Care 
 Chapter 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 575 EARLY CHILDHOOD EQUITY FUND 
 414-575-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in this section, unless the context requires otherwise: 

 (1) “Children and families who are at-risk” means children and families who experience systemic disparities because of any combination of two or more of the following factors: race, ethnicity, English language proficiency, socioeconomic status, and geographic location, including that which has resulted from gentrification and displacement. 

 (2) “Council” or "ELC" means the Early Learning Council. 

 (3) “Culturally specific methods” means programs and interventions that are designed by or adapted for members of the community served; reflect the values, beliefs, practices and worldviews of the community served; and provided in the preferred language of the community served. 

 (4) “Culturally Specific Organization” means an organization that serves a particular cultural community and is primarily staffed and led by members of that community; these organizations demonstrate intimate knowledge of lived experience of the community, including but not limited to the impact of structural and individual racism or discrimination on the community; knowledge of specific disparities documented in the community and how that influences the structure of their program or service; ability to describe the community’s cultural practices, health and safety beliefs/practices, positive cultural identity/pride/resilience, immigration dynamics, religious beliefs, etc. and how their services have been adapted to those cultural norms. 

 (5) “Culturally Specific Early Learning Program” means a program that is designed to serve a particular cultural community and is primarily staffed and led by members of that community and designed by or adapted by members of the cultural community that it serves. 

 (6) “Director” means the Early Learning System Director. 

 (7) “Department” means the Department of Early Learning and Care. 

 (8) “Early Childhood School Readiness” means indicators related to children’s success in kindergarten including (1) children’s readiness to engage in and benefit from early learning experiences; (2) families’ ability to support children as evidenced by parental and caregiver attitudes and involvement in their children’s early learning and development and transition to school; and (3) public schools’ ability to provide a learning environment along with practices that foster and support a smooth transition for children into kindergarten and advance and promote the learning of all children. 

 (9) “Family Stability” means the characteristics of a family that support healthy child development, including parental mental health, stable relationships, and a supportive, flexible, and nurturing home environment. 

 (10) “Fund” means the Early Childhood Equity Fund established by ORS 417.781 . 

 (11) “Planning Grant” means a grant to promote the capacity of culturally specific organizations to deliver culturally specific early learning, early childhood and parent support programs. 

 (12) “Positive Child Indicators” means markers of skills, knowledge, and experiences necessary to support positive child development as described in the Oregon Early Learning and Kindergarten Guidelines, located on the Department’s website. 

 (13) “Positive Family Indicators” means markers of skills, knowledge, and experiences necessary to support positive child development as described in the Oregon Early Learning and Kindergarten Guidelines, located on the Department’s website . 

 (14) “Program Grant” means a grant to deliver culturally specific early learning, early childhood and parent support programs . 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 417.781 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.781 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DELC 89-2023, minor correction filed 11/22/2023, effective 11/22/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ELD 4-2020, adopt filed 01/30/2020, effective 01/30/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
