



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Real Estate Agency 
 Chapter 863 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 CRIMINAL RECORDS CHECK AND CRIMINAL BACKGROUND FITNESS DETERMINATION RULES 
 863-005-0070 
 Appeals 
 
 (1) A subject individual may not appeal a criminal background fitness determination or a decision to close a criminal background fitness determination for reason of incompleteness.  (2) If a licensing or registration applicant wishes to, they may complete any additional pre-licensing/registration requirements and submit a completed license/registration application together with the required fees. Upon review of a completed license/registration application, the agency shall issue a “notice of intent to deny” that describes the reason for the denial. The notice shall also include information required by OAR 137-003-0505 that describes the subject individual’s right to request a contested case hearing to appeal the agency’s decision.  (3) Contested case hearings on criminal background fitness determinations shall be closed to non-participants.  (4) A subject individual may not use the appeals process established by this rule to challenge the accuracy or completeness of information provided by the Oregon Department of State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or any other agency reporting information to the Oregon Department of State Police or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  (5) Any challenge to any information provided by the Oregon Department of State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or any other agency reporting information to the Oregon Department of State Police or the Federal Bureau of Investigation must follow the appeal process prescribed by the reporting agency.  (6) If the subject individual successfully challenges the accuracy or completeness of any information provided by the Oregon Department of State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or an agency reporting information to the Oregon Department of State Police or the Federal Bureau of Investigation that the agency relied on to support a decision to deny a criminal background fitness determination, the subject individual may request the agency to conduct a new criminal records check and re-evaluate the original criminal background fitness determination made under OAR 863-005-0020. The subject individual shall submit a new background check application to the agency within 30 days of the date the Oregon Department of State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or an agency reporting information to the Oregon Department of State Police or the Federal Bureau of Investigation issues a corrected criminal background report. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 181.534, 696.022 & 696.790 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 181.534 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REA 3-2008, f. 6-12-08, cert. ef. 7-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
