



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 44 PROTECTED WILDLIFE, HOLDING, AND GAME BIRD PROPAGATING RULES 
 635-044-0480 
 Holding of Nongame Wildlife 
 
 (1) Native nongame wildlife may not be sold or propagated except as provided in Division 200.  (2) A Wildlife Holding Permit is required to hold three or more animals of a limited number of nongame wildlife species for each facility or household.  (3) Only nongame species from the following list are permitted to be held. These species are determined to be demonstrably widespread, abundant, and secure through the NatureServe state ranking process as currently determined by the Oregon Biodiversity Information Center (ORBIC) as of the date of the revised rule adoption. (http://inr.oregonstate.edu/orbic/rare-species/ranking-definitions)  (a) Amphibians:  (A) Northwestern Salamander (Ambystoma gracile);  (B) Long-toed Salamander (Ambystoma macrodacytlum);  (C) Pacific (Coastal) Giant Salamander (Dicamptodon tenebrosus);  (D) Ensatina (Ensatina eschscholtzii);  (E) Western Red-Backed Salamander (Plethodon vehiculum);  (F) Rough-Skinned Newt (Taricha granulosa);  (G) Pacific Treefrog or Pacific Chorus Frog (Pseudacris regilla);  (b) Reptiles:  (A) Northern Alligator Lizard (Elgaria coerulea);  (B) Southern Alligator Lizard (Elgaria multicarinata);  (C) Western Skink (Plestiodon skiltonianus);  (D) Northern Sagebrush Lizard (Sceloporus graciosus graciosus);  (E) Western Fence Lizard (Sceloporus occidentalis);  (F) Common Side-Blotched Lizard (Uta stansburiana);  (G) Western Rattlesnake (Crotalus oreganus): excluding Willamette Valley populations;  (H) Pacific Gopher Snake (Pituophis catenifer);  (I) Western Terrestrial Garter Snake (Thamnophis elegans);  (J) Northwestern Garter Snake (Thamnophis ordinoides);  (K) Common Garter Snake (Thamnophis sirtalis);  (c) Mammals:  (A) North American Porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum);  (B) Long-Tailed Vole (Microtus longicaudus);  (C) Montane Vole (Microtus montanus);  (D) Creeping vole (Microtus oregoni);  (E) Ermine (Mustela erminea);  (F) Long-Tailed Weasel (Mustela frenata);  (G) Bushy-Tailed Woodrat (Neotoma cinerea);  (H) Dusky-footed woodrat (Neotoma fuscipes);  (I) Deer Mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus);  (J) Great basin pocket mouse (Perognathus parvus);  (K) Coast Mole (Scapanus Orarius);  (L) Northern pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides);  (M) California Ground Squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi);  (N) Belding’s Ground Squirrel (Spermophilus beldingi);  (O) Brush Rabbit (Sylvilagus bachmani);  (P) Douglas’s Squirrel (Tamiasciurus douglasii).  (4) Additional species may be petitioned for proposed inclusion to the list of species permitted and held under a Wildlife Holding Permit with a written request and justification submitted to the Department.  (5) Wildlife listed in this section that are captured from the wild and held for more than 48 hours in captivity, or held on a Wildlife Holding Permit, must remain in captivity for the life of the animal and may not be returned to the wild without prior approval by the Department. This rule does not apply to wildlife held under 635-062-0000 (Wildlife Rehabilitation).  (6) Wildlife species whose ORBIC status changes from being demonstrably widespread, abundant, and secure (S5 ORBIC status), to a less secure status (S1-4), will be grandfathered to the individual permit holder at the time of the status change for the life of the animals. No further collections or additions will be permitted to new or existing Wildlife Holding Permits for that species without prior approval by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 498.002 & 496.171 - 182 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 498.002 & 496.171 - 182 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 3-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
