



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 83 REGIONAL AND COMMUNITY CHILD ABUSE ASSESSMENT CENTERS 
 137-083-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in OAR chapter 137, division 083:  (1) "Multidisciplinary Child Abuse Team (MDT)" means the interdisciplinary investigation team established in each county by ORS 418.747.  (2) "Complex Case" means a case in which the local Child Abuse Intervention Center (CAIC) or the local Multidisciplinary Child Abuse Team (MDT) determines the need for assistance from a Regional Service Center or Community Assessment Center, in order to perform or complete a child abuse medical assessment or to evaluate, diagnose or treat a victim of child abuse.  (3) "Consultation" means discussions between or among persons associated with a Regional Service Center or Community Assessment Center and persons associated with county Multidisciplinary Teams to be served by the Center regarding individual cases involving child abuse or possible child abuse, child abuse medical assessments, and related topics.  (4) "Education" means the provision of specialized information to individuals regarding the detection, evaluation, diagnosis and treatment of child abuse or possible child abuse.  (5) "Referral Services" means the recommendation of specialized services related to child abuse medical assessments or to the detection, evaluation, diagnosis or treatment of child abuse. It may include consultation or directing or redirecting a child abuse victim or possible victim to an appropriate specialist for more definitive evaluation, diagnosis or treatment.  (6) "Technical Assistance" means assistance of a practical, specialized or scientific nature, including but not limited to practical advice, specialized advice, advanced laboratory testing or forensic testing.  (7) "Training" means the provision of teaching or instruction to professionals regarding the detection, evaluation, diagnosis or treatment of child abuse or possible child abuse.  (8) "Community Assessment Service" means a neutral, child sensitive community-based center or service provider to which a child from the community may be referred to receive a thorough child abuse medical assessment for the purpose of determining whether the child has been abused or neglected. These services may be provided by assessment, advocacy, or intervention centers.  (9) "Regional Assessment Center" means a community based Child Abuse Intervention Center (CAIC) that is also providing training, education, consultation, referral, technical assistance, and may with the approval of the Department of Justice be providing specialized assessment services for children in multiple counties. For the purposes of these rules the Regional Assessment Center will be referred to as the Regional Service Providers (RSP) and may be referred to as RSP or Regional Service Provider throughout the rest of this document. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.782 - 418.793 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 418.780 - 418.796 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 2-2011, f. 3-30-11, cert. ef. 4-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 1-2003, f. 2-28-03, cert. ef. 3-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
