



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 VITAL STATISTICS 
 333-011-0240 
 Review and Filing of Delayed Registration of Live Birth 
 
 (1) The state registrar shall review the application for delayed registration of birth and documents in support of the application for authenticity, relevance and content required by OAR 333-011-0230. If the application cannot be approved as submitted, the applicant will be notified by correspondence or electronic mail of the deficiencies and provided an opportunity to submit additional documentation.  (2) The state registrar shall review the delayed registration of live birth application and the documents submitted, and shall search to confirm there is no existing birth record for the proposed registrant in Oregon. If the state registrar finds no such records and finds that the documents submitted are adequate to establish that the proposed registrant was born in Oregon on the date specified, the state registrar or the state registrar's designated representative shall register the record and include on the record of delayed registration of live birth an abstract of the evidence supporting the delayed report of live birth.  (3) If the application and evidence is accepted, the state registrar shall send the delayed report of live birth, including the abstract of evidence, to the applicant for notarized signature.  (4) When the notarized delayed report of live birth with the applicant’s notarized signature is received, the state registrar shall create the delayed record of live birth. The record of live birth shall be marked ‘Delayed’ and shall include a description of each document submitted to support the facts shown on the delayed birth record. This description shall include:  (a) The title or description of the document;  (b) The name of the affiant, if the document is an affidavit of personal knowledge, or of the custodian, if the document is an original or certified copy of a record or a signed statement from the custodian;  (c) The date of the original filing of the document being abstracted; and  (d) The information regarding the birth facts contained in the document.  (5) The state registrar shall return all original documents other than personal affidavits submitted in support of the application for delayed registration of live birth and received directly from the applicant to the applicant after review. A copy of the personal affidavit shall be provided to the applicant. Copies of documents and application will be maintained for delayed registrations of live birth that are accepted for registration. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 432.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 432.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 17-2013, f. 12-26-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
