



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commission for the Blind 
 Chapter 585 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 SERVICES FOR ELIGIBLE BLIND CLIENTS 
 585-010-0040 
 Financial Support for Attendance at Institution of Higher Education 
 
 (1) Basic Criteria. Commission may provide financial support to a client for attendance at an institution of higher education. In addition to the comprehensive evaluation required under section (2), the following criteria apply to this rule: 

 (a) The planned attendance must be part of an approved IPE; 

 (b) The extent of the financial support provided by Commission to a client will be conditioned by the following: 

 (A) The client must present documentary evidence to indicate that a reasonable effort has been made to obtain cash grant assistance or non-merit scholarships from other sources to pay for the planned attendance, in whole or in part; 

 (B) Where cash grant assistance or scholarships are obtained to partially fund costs of attendance, the client must submit copies of the relevant correspondence to identify the extent that the costs will be funded from other sources including family resources. Awards and scholarships based on merit are not considered a comparable benefit; 

 (C) Where denial of cash grant assistance or scholarships is based on the availability of family resources, the client will be expected to utilize such family resources to fund that part of the planned attendance expenses involving tuition, books, and supplies; 

 (D) Financial support may be provided where the client is determined to be eligible for cash grant assistance or scholarships by the institution(s) but where denial of such assistance or scholarships is based solely on the non-availability of funds to the applicable institution(s). The client should secure a "No Funds" letter from the institution and submit it to their counselor at Commission promptly. 

 (2) Comprehensive evaluation. 

 (a) Except as provided in section (3) of this rule, financial support may be provided to a client to attend an institution of higher education only after they have completed a comprehensive evaluation. The evaluation must indicate that the client has an acceptable level of functioning in the following areas: 

 (A) Orientation and mobility; 

 (B) Communication skills; 

 (C) Personal management, i.e., techniques of daily living, personal grooming, and social competency; 

 (D) Use of the written language at a college level; 

 (E) Understanding of career alternatives and availability of jobs in the future labor market; 

 (F) Psychological adjustment to blindness; and 

 (G) Study skills, which will insure effective use of time and resources while in an academic program. 

 (b) The evaluation will be completed at OCCB, on an individual basis by Commission staff, or by alternative means approved by the client’s counselor. 

 (3) Alternative to Comprehensive Evaluation. Subject to the basic criteria provided in section (1) of this rule, a comprehensive evaluation is not required to provide financial support to clients who have successfully completed one (1) academic year, of 12 credits per term or full-time equivalent, financed by personal or other resources. 

 (4) Remedial Training. Where comprehensive evaluation results indicate that a client is not ready to attend an institution of higher education, but where a potential for such attendance is present, remedial training will be made available. When remedial training progress indicates that the client is ready to attend an institution of higher education, financial support may be provided. 

 (5) Continuation of Financial Support. 

 (a) Continued financial support for a client’s attendance at an institution of higher education will be dependent upon the client’s maintaining a satisfactory academic record, as determined by the institution. 

 (b) Each client’s progress will be reviewed at least annually to determine the appropriateness of continued financial support, to evaluate whether any redirection of the client’s course of study is required, and to identify and resolve any existing or potential problems. 

 (6) Submission of Grade Reports. Each client shall submit a copy of an official institution record of their grades to their counselor at Commission not later than 30 days following the completion of each term. 

 (7) Support for Attendance Outside the State of Oregon or at Private Institutions. When a course of study required by a client’s IPE is not offered at a public institution of higher education within the State of Oregon, financial support for attendance at a private institution within the State of Oregon or at an institution outside of the State of Oregon may be provided, but only to the extent normally provided to clients who attend public institutions within the State of Oregon. 

 (8) Withdrawal from Institution. In the event that a client intends to withdraw completely from an institution of higher education where their attendance has been approved and financial support has been provided by Commission, the client is responsible for notifying their counselor at Commission of their intent to withdraw at least 30 days prior to the commencement of classes. 

 (9) Termination. Financial support to attend an institution of higher education will be terminated when the client qualifies at the entry level in the occupational field or profession for which they are studying, or when the client is determined to be ineligible for financial support under this rule. 

 (10) Advanced Study. At least one (1) year’s work experience is required between completion of educational study at the baccalaureate level and the receipt of financial support for any advanced course of study. Requests for exceptions to this policy will be evaluated by Commission on an individual basis. 

 (11) The provision for financial support of attendance at an institution of higher education is contingent upon the availability of adequate funds to Commission for this purpose. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 346.150 & ORS 346.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 346.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFTB 2-2021, adopt filed 02/23/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
