



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 ADOPT-A-RIVER PROGRAM 
 250-017-0030 
 General Requirements 
 
 (1) The spokesperson must submit a written application to the Director requesting to adopt a river or waterbody and identifying the intended scope of work.  (2) An "Adopt-a-River" adoption will be executed between the spokesperson and the Director. The adoption will list the specific requirements and obligations of both the applicant and the Director.  (3) The section of river or waterbody being adopted shall be at least two miles in length for litter pickup work and can include shorelines of lakes and reservoirs. If unique situations exist then this requirement may be altered if approved by the Director.  (4) The term of the adoption will be for a period of at least two years.  (5) If more than one applicant requests the same section of waterbody, the Director may make the selection by earliest date of application or by a drawing.  (6) Assignment of a specific section of waterbody shall be at the discretion of the Director.  (7) The Director may consider factors such as land ownership, sensitive resource values, congestion, and size of waterway in determining which rivers or waterbody sections will be eligible for this program.  (8) Subcontracting or assigning the adopted section by the applicant is prohibited and will result in cancellation of the adoption.  (9) The Director may cancel an adoption for any reason including, but not limited to safety considerations, failure of the applicant to perform and failure of the applicant or its participants to comply with provisions of the adoption. This cancellation will be issued in writing.  (10) The spokesperson may cancel the adoption with 30 days written notice to the Director.  (11) A spokesperson has the option of renewing the adoption for subsequent terms, subject to the approval of the Director.  (12) The Director shall not issue an adoption under this program to any applicant whose objectives and values are determined to be inconsistent with the public interest and the Marine Board's charge and responsibilities under Oregon law. To make this determination, the Director will rely on:  (a) Oregon Marine Board published mission;  (b) All of the information provided in the application and any other information considered to be common knowledge of the general public in the geographic area of the waterbody section to be adopted and;  (c) Information which may be requested of the applicant by the Director. This information may include bylaws, articles of incorporation, or literature of the applicant. Failure to provide such information upon request may be grounds for denial of an adoption.  (13) If the intended scope of work, as identified on the written application, includes the removal of invasive species, the applicant must also complete a noxious weed removal plan and have it approved by the Director prior to the beginning of any invasive species removal work.  (a) A noxious weed removal plan shall include permission by a landowner for a project to proceed, the species of plant to be removed, the proposed project location, the method of removal, the timing and frequency of removal, how plant material will be disposed of and how any equipment used during the project will be decontaminated to prevent the spread of noxious weeds.  (b) Plans must be completed with direction from one of the following technical assistance agencies:  (A) Oregon Department of Agriculture;  (B) County Weed Control District;  (C) County Soil and Water Conservation District, or  (D) Another qualified technical assistance agency or business pre-approved by the Director. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 830.110 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 830.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 1-2012, f. 1-13-12, cert. ef. 2-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MB 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
