



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 OREGON SCENIC WATERWAYS 
 736-040-0085 
 Procedures in Event of Commission Denial 
 
 (1) During the period of one year following the original notice to the Commission:  (a) The Commission and the owner of the land involved may agree upon modifications or alterations of the proposal so that implementation thereof would not, in the judgment of the Commission, impair substantially the natural beauty of the scenic waterway or otherwise violate the provisions of the Act or these rules and regulations;  (b) The Commission may acquire by purchase, gift, or exchange, the land involved or interest therein, including scenic easements, for the purpose of preserving the natural beauty of the scenic waterway;  (c) The landowner may make a written request of the Commission to enter into further negotiations regarding use of the land as prescribed in section (2) of this rule.  (2) The Commission, upon receiving a written request from an owner of related adjacent land, shall enter into negotiations and endeavor to reach agreement with such owner establishing for the use of such land a plan that would not impair substantially the natural beauty of the scenic waterway. At the time of such request for negotiations, the owner may submit an alternate plan in writing setting forth in detail his proposed uses. Then:  (a) Three months after the owner makes such a request for negotiations, either the Commission or the owner may give written notice that the negotiations are terminated without agreement;  (b) Nine months after the notice of termination of negotiations, the owner may use his land in conformity with any specific written plan submitted by the owner prior to or during negotiations, in the event the Commission and the owner reach agreement establishing a plan for land use, such agreement is terminable upon at least one year's written notice by either the Commission or the owner;  (c) Twelve months after the Department accepts as complete the original notice to the Commission, the owner may use their land in conformity with the specific written plan submitted as a part of that notice unless the Commission has sooner instituted proceedings to acquire the land involved. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.845 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.845(5) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 6-2008, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HC 1285, f. 6-27-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HC 1258, f. 6-30-71 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
