



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 MODEL RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR CONTESTED CASES 
 137-003-0555 
 Authorized Representative of Parties Before Designated Agencies 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule, the following words and phrases have the following meaning:  (a) "Agency" means State Landscape Contractors Board, Office of Energy and the Energy Facility Siting Council, Environmental Quality Commission and the Department of Environmental Quality; Insurance Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services for proceedings in which an insured appears pursuant to ORS 737.505; the Department of Consumer and Business Services and any other agency for the purpose of proceedings to enforce the state building code, as defined by 455.010; the State Fire Marshal in the Department of State Police; Division of State Lands for proceedings regarding the issuance or denial of fill or removal permits under 196.800 to 196.990; Public Utility Commission; Water Resources Commission and the Water Resources Department; Land Conservation and Development Commission and the Department of Land Conservation and Development; State Department of Agriculture for purposes of hearings under 215.705; and the Bureau of Labor and Industries.  (b) "Authorized Representative" means a member of a partnership, an authorized officer or regular employee of a corporation, association or organized group, an authorized officer or employee of a governmental authority other than a state agency or other authorized representatives recognized by state or federal law;  (c) "Legal Argument" includes arguments on:  (A) The jurisdiction of the agency to hear the contested case;  (B) The constitutionality of a statute or rule or the application of a constitutional requirement to an agency;  (C) The application of court precedent to the facts of the particular contested case proceeding.  (d) "Legal Argument" does not include presentation of motions, evidence, examination and cross-examination of witnesses or presentation of factual arguments or arguments on:  (A) The application of the statutes or rules to the facts in the contested case;  (B) Comparison of prior actions of the agency in handling similar situations;  (C) The literal meaning of the statutes or rules directly applicable to the issues in the contested case;  (D) The admissibility of evidence; and  (E) The correctness of procedures being followed in the contested case hearing.  (2) A party or limited party participating in a contested case hearing before an agency listed in subsection (1)(a) of this rule may be represented by an authorized representative as provided in this rule if the agency has by rule specified that authorized representatives may appear in the type of contested case hearing involved.  (3) Before appearing in the case, an authorized representative must provide the administrative law judge with written authorization for the named representative to appear on behalf of a party or limited party.  (4) The administrative law judge may limit an authorized representative's presentation of evidence, examination and cross-examination of witnesses, or presentation of factual arguments to insure the orderly and timely development of the hearing records, and shall not allow an authorized representative to present legal argument as defined in subsection (1)(c) of this rule.  (5) When an authorized representative is representing a party or limited party in a hearing, the administrative law judge shall advise such representative of the manner in which objections may be made and matters preserved for appeal. Such advice is of a procedural nature and does not change applicable law on waiver or the duty to make timely objection. Where such objections may involve legal argument as defined in this rule, the administrative law judge shall provide reasonable opportunity for the authorized representative to consult legal counsel and permit such legal counsel to file written legal argument within a reasonable time after conclusion of the hearing.  (6) An authorized representative must read and be familiar with the Code of Conduct for Non-Attorney Representatives at Administrative Hearings dated June 1, 2011, as amended October 1, 2011, which is maintained by the Oregon Department of Justice and available on its website at http://www.doj.state.or.us. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341, 183.457 & 183.630 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 1-2012, f. 1-11-12, cert. ef. 1-31-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 19-2003, f. 12-12-03, cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 10-1999, f. 12-23-99, cert. ef. 1-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
