



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 42 FIRE CONTROL 
 629-042-0005 
 Forest Protection Plans 
 
 Pursuant to ORS 477.210(2), a forest protection plan filed by a owner of forestland shall include the following information, before consideration of approval by the Oregon Board of Forestry:  (1) A complete legal description of the forestland to be protected.  (2) A map, with scale of two inches to the mile, revealing section, township and range lines of the forestland involved, and showing thereon roads, streams, trails, structures, fuel types and the location of protection facilities for such land.  (3) A general description of the land management activities to be conducted on the forestland.  (4) The name, address and telephone number of the person who is in charge of forest protection on the forestland to be protected and who is obligated to carry out the provisions of a approved forest protection plan.  (5) A complete description of the methods to be used for the prevention of fire on the forestland to be protected.  (6) A complete description of the systems and methods to be used for the timely discovery and reporting of any and all fires originating on or spreading to the forestland to be protected.  (7) A complete description of the procedure to be used for notifying the forester, in the event of any fire on the forestland to be protected.  (8) A complete description of the personnel resources available for fire suppression, including personnel for initial attack activities, personnel for extended attack activities and personnel for support and logistics activities.  (9) A complete description of the training standards and requirements for the personnel resources described in subsections (4) and (8) of this rule.  (10) A complete description of the type, location and amount of fire fighting equipment in serviceable condition, including but not limited to shovels, hoes, axes, backpack pumps, fire hose, engines, water tenders, portable tanks, portable pumps, dozers, communications, aircraft and equipment for the transportation of men and equipment to be used for initial attack activities, extended attack activities and for support and logistics activities.  (11) A complete description of the systems, methods and guiding strategies to be used for the timely suppression of fire on or spreading from the forestland to be protected.  (12) A certification that the Incident Command System will be used to manage fire suppression activities on the forestland involved.  (13) The signature of each owner of the forestland to be protected, together with their address and telephone number. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.016 & 526.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 477.210 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 11-1998, f. & cert. ef. 8-13-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB 6, f. 5-9-60 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
