



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS UNABLE TO MEET TPR REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE HIGHWAYS 
 731-017-0035 
 Additional Requirements for Adjustments or Alternatives to ODOT Traffic Performance Measures 
 
 (1) In addition to the requirements of section 0020 of this division, an application to adjust traffic performance measures or to allow use of alternative traffic performance measures including measures other than a volume to capacity ratio shall include the following additional information:  (a) Identification of the existing traffic performance measures and a description of the adjusted or alternative traffic performance measures being requested to accommodate the economic development project, including the geographic boundaries of the requested adjustment or alternative measures.  (b) An explanation how the proposed adjusted or alternative traffic performance measures protect the function of affected state highway facilities.  (c) Methodologies and procedures for applying the adjusted or alternative traffic performance measures, including the level of performance being sought under the new measure.  (d) If the proposal is to adjust existing traffic performance measures or allow use of alternative traffic performance measures during an interim period prior to completion of construction of the development:  (A) The proposed length of the interim period and what will be achieved during that interim period.  (B) An explanation of what will need to occur for the significantly affected transportation facility to be brought up to the current traffic performance measure by the end of the interim period.  (e) An explanation how Commission approval of the requested adjustment or use of alternative traffic performance measures would impact affected state highway corridors and the local government’s ability to implement its adopted transportation system plan or comprehensive plan.  (2) Applications to adjust or allow alternative traffic performance measures for state highways require OHP amendments and must be approved by the Commission. Pursuant to ODOT’s State Agency Coordination Agreement, any such modification must comply with the coordination procedures in OAR 731-015-0065. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 367.850 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 367.850 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 3-2010, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
