



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Emergency Management 
 Chapter 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 9-1-1 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS  SYSTEM PROGRAM 
 104-080-0120 
 Requirements of a 9-1-1 jurisdiction in operation of a primary PSAP
 
 
 (1) All emergency calls received in the State of Oregon must be answered by a telecommunicator. 

 (2) A telecommunicator at a primary PSAP must attempt to avoid multiple call transfers and must transfer an emergency call only when necessary. 

 (3) A telecommunicator at a primary PSAP must attempt to obtain the following information from the caller and not rely solely on the automatic display of ANI and ALI information, unless the information is not available at the time of the call: 

 (a) Location of caller; 

 (b) Location of the emergency; 

 (c) Nature of emergency; and 

 (d) The call back number of the device from which the caller is placing the call. 

 (4) An automated device may not access the emergency communications system if it does not provide for two-way communication. A primary PSAP is not required to receive, respond to, or process a call by any such automated device. 

 (5) Except as described in this rule, a primary PSAP may not use a device or program its CPE to offer a choice of options to a caller placing an emergency call without providing assistance from a telecommunicator, including the use of “Automatic Call Attendant” or “Voice Mail.” This rule does not apply to calls received on 10-digit lines. 

 (6) A primary PSAP may: 

 (a) Use a queue device with a pre-recorded message informing the caller that all telecommunicators are currently busy and to remain on the line. These "queue" devices must be capable of sequencing calls in a manner that forces the oldest call in the queue to be answered first by the next available telecommunicator. Automatic Call Distributor will be a component of the 9-1-1 system which may be requested by the 9-1-1 Jurisdiction by written request including stated business need justification, submitted to the State as written in section 104-080-0200 (3). 

 (b) Use an unattended wireless call screening system with prior written approval from the Department. 

 (7) A 9-1-1 jurisdiction may request an additional funded workstation for its primary PSAP by submitting a written request to ODEM. A request must demonstrate a need for the increase in workstations based on work load, work flow or other efficiency gains that benefit the citizens of, and visitors to the 9-1-1 jurisdiction. The written request must include the following: 

 (a) The specific equipment, hardware and software, required for the functionality of the requested workstation; 

 (b) A description of how the request will meet the specific needs of the primary PSAP; 

 (c) A description of the expected outcomes; 

 (d) A staffing plan describing how the additional workstation will be used by the primary PSAP; 

 (e) The signature of an authorized representative of the 9-1-1 jurisdiction indicating approval of the request; and 

 (f) Any additional supporting documentation that describes the on-going change in circumstances at the PSAP level requiring the additional workstation. The change in circumstances may not be based on a single occurrence, but may include circumstances such as an increase in work load, increase in service population, or an opportunity to leverage equipment or processes towards an efficiency gain. 

 (g) When a PSAP requests funding for additional workstation(s), beyond the accepted workstation allocation formula, the Department may consult members of the State Advisory Committee in an effort to add general PSAP knowledge and experience to the decision making process. 

 (8) A 9-1-1 jurisdiction may request reimbursement for MSAG coordination and update services and GIS data layer development and maintenance. A 9-1-1 jurisdiction must meet the following requirements to receive reimbursement: 

 (a) A 9-1-1 jurisdiction must have a current agreement with a GIS or MSAG service provider that has been approved by the Department. The agreement must address the payment or reimbursement for GIS or MSAG services. 

 (b) Each GIS or MSAG provider seeking reimbursement must provide documentation of its billing rates. 

 (c) Each 9-1-1 jurisdiction must complete signature cards for at least two individuals who are authorized to request and approve a request for reimbursement on behalf of the 9-1-1 jurisdiction. 

 (9) A 9-1-1 jurisdiction responsible for CPE maintenance must contract for maintenance for a minimum of 4 years for any maintenance costs to be eligible for reimbursement. The four-year period begins on the day after the expiration of manufacturer’s warranty, which at a minimum must be for a 12 month period. Anytime during the 5th year of the CPE lifecycle that a 9-1-1 jurisdiction determines an additional year of maintenance is available and provided by the maintenance contractor, 1 additional year of maintenance must be exercised. All dates for product licensing and maintenance must be coterminous. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 403.120; 2015 HB 2426 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 403 & 2015 HB 2426 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OEM 20-2023, minor correction filed 04/07/2023, effective 04/07/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OEM 2-2018, amend filed 11/02/2018, effective 11/02/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OEM 3-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
