



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-1200 
 Applications for Water Utility Service 
 
 (1) Any person wanting water service must submit an application to the water utility. A separate application is required for each property to be served.  (2) A water utility may require an applicant to provide the following information when applying for service:  (a) The applicant's name, service address, and billing address;  (b) The contact information where the applicant can be reached;  (c) The type of water service requested and its intended use; and  (d) The name to be used to identify the account, if different than the applicant’s actual name.  (3) If the account is for residential service, the water utility may also request the applicant to provide the following information:  (a) The names and birth dates of all persons responsible for payment on the account; and  (b) For each person responsible for payment on the account, two forms of government-issued photo identification, or one government-issued photo identification and one of the following:  (A) A valid social security number;  (B) A current photo identification from a school or employer and the name, address, and telephone number of a person who can verify the applicant's identity, such as a teacher, employer, or caseworker; or  (C) Other information deemed sufficient by the water utility to establish an applicant's identification.  (4) Once an applicant has submitted all information required by the water utility under these rules, a water utility must either accept or refuse an application within two business days of its receipt. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
