



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-1260 
 Manure Lagoons, Storage Ponds, Vats, Pits and Separators 
 
 (1) Scope. This applies to facilities not covered by confined space rules. (Examples include pole buildings used to store compost material or manure lagoons and separators.)  (2) General.  (a) Do not enter any vat, pit, separator or other hazardous area where the atmosphere may be immediately dangerous to life unless:  (A) Tests by a competent person, immediately before entry, prove it free of toxic gases and with enough oxygen to sustain life; or  (B) Mechanical or natural ventilation provides at least one complete change of uncontaminated air immediately before entry and continues during enclosure occupancy; or  (C) The person entering the area is using a properly functioning supplied air or self-contained breathing apparatus, and is closely supervised by a safety watcher with similar equipment, at the entrance. They must have adequate help to remove the person if necessary.  (b) Vats and pits that have hazardous materials, manure or that are more than 4' deep, must meet one of the following requirements:  (A) A cover or grating must be in place and strong enough to safely support imposed loads; or  (B) The edges must extend at least 42 inches above the adjacent floor level; or  (C) There is a standard guardrail.  (D) Where vehicles operate near vats or pits the railing must be strong enough to keep them out, or there must be a curb or shear rail that keeps the vehicle out.  (c) Manure lagoons or earthen manure storage ponds must have:  (A) Curbs, shear rails or other barriers where vehicles or equipment operate near enough to drive or roll into the lagoon.  (B) Standard guardrails or other protection where employees work over the contents or near enough to the edge to fall into the lagoon.  (C) Cables or chains that connect a vehicle to an adequate anchorage and are short enough to prevent the vehicle from rolling into the lagoon are acceptable. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
