



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 VOLUNTEER SERVICES/STUDENT INTERNS 
 291-015-0120 
 Selection 
 
 (1) A prospective volunteer must complete an application and undergo a background check. The department holds the ultimate authority to approve or deny a volunteer application. A volunteer must be:  (a) A USA citizen, legal resident, or in the country on a valid visa.  (b) At least 18 years old, unless there will be no interaction between the volunteer and inmates.  (2) Security Clearance: The purpose of clearance is to ensure not only the safety and security of department facilities, but also to ensure that volunteers are appropriate role models for inmates and offenders. To become a volunteer, an individual must clear the following criteria:  (a) LEDS: To clear LEDS, the volunteer must have:  (A) No outstanding warrants or pending criminal charges.  (B) No misdemeanor convictions in the past two years. No felony convictions or incarcerations in the past five years, or two years for certain volunteer programs. The functional unit manager may on a case-by-case basis approve an individual with no felony convictions or incarcerations in the past three years.  (C) No convictions for introduction or supplying contraband as defined in ORS 162.185; or possession, control or delivery of an explosive device or substance; or assisting an inmate to escape or unlawful departure from a correctional facility, including attempt or conspiracy of any of the above.  (D) Current (less than a year old) LEDS clearance is required for all volunteers.  (b) Driving record: The volunteer may not have been convicted of Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants (DUII) in the past two years or Driving While Suspended (DWS) in the last year. The number and type of other driving offenses or convictions may be considered in determining if the volunteer is a good role model for inmates and offenders.  (c) Persons with Prior Criminal Convictions: Prospective volunteers with prior felony or misdemeanor convictions who meet the above listed criteria may be approved when the following additional criteria have been met:  (A) May be under supervision, but must have no parole or probation violations in the past two years, or one year for certain volunteer programs, and approval of his/her parole officer.  (B) A prospective volunteer with a prior criminal conviction who performs services inside a correctional facility must have the approval of the facility functional unit manager at each facility where the service will be provided.  (d) Additional requirements may be established by department policy.  (3) Prospective volunteers must disclose on their volunteer application any connection to department inmates such as friends, neighbors, co-defendant, and relatives. If the prospective volunteer is a crime victim, he/she must disclose the name of the inmate or offender who committed the crime.  (4) A prospective volunteer must complete a volunteer/intern application. Failure to provide all requested information or sign all forms included in the application will result in volunteer status being denied.  (5) Employees, ex-employees not terminated for cause, retired employees, other agency staff, and contractors may serve as volunteers with the concurrence of the facility functional unit manager where the volunteer is to provide services. The employee’s volunteer activities must be substantially different from the employee’s job responsibilities. The differentiation must be noted in the position description.  (6) A prospective volunteer recommended to the department from an endorser will be interviewed by the department supervisor. A prospective volunteer who does not have an affiliation or endorser may be granted volunteer status with the approval of the program manager or designee.  (7) A student intern shall be recommended to the department by the appropriate official of the school, training program, mentorship, apprenticeship, college, or university where the intern is enrolled. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 15-2010, f. & cert. ef. 11-19-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 8-2010(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 7-14-10 thru 1-10-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 7-2004, f. & cert. ef. 8-9-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
