



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Marine Board 
 Chapter 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 OUTFITTER/GUIDE REGISTRATION 
 250-016-0070 
 Requirements of Recreational Activities 
 
 (1) An “Outdoor Recreational Activity” as defined in ORS 704.010(5)(a) begins at the time the Outfitter and Guide provides direct service to the client. This time period excludes any preparation activities by the Outfitter and Guide including transportation of equipment.  (2) The Outfitter and Guide and client will complete a written and signed contract outlining the packing services the Outfitter and Guide will provide a client to a drop camp. These services will include but are not limited to:  (a) Transportation of the client and equipment to and from the drop camp;  (b) A basic description of the drop camp, camp amenities and equipment provided;  (c) Pack-out of harvested game animal and gear;  (d) Maintaining regular communication with client via cell or satellite telephone or other communication device and be ready to provide services, as needed;  (e) Other services the Outfitter and Guide and client agree upon.  (3) The Outfitter and Guide and client will complete a written and signed contract outlining the packing services the Outfitter and Guide will provide in an Outfitter and Guide Hunt. These services will include but are not limited to:  (a) The physical accompaniment of the client in the field by the registered Outfitter and Guide or the employee(s) of the registered Outfitter and Guide during the hunt.  (b) Transportation of the client and equipment to and from the camp site;  (c) A basic description of the camp site, camp amenities and equipment provided;  (d) Pack-out of harvested game animal and gear;  (e) Maintaining regular communication with client via cell or satellite telephone or other communication device and be ready to provide services, as needed;  (f) Other services the Outfitter and Guide and client agree upon. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 704.500 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 704.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSMB 15-2011, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
