



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM SELECTION RULES 
 330-125-0035 
 Application Procedures 
 
 (1) An applicant shall submit an application on forms prescribed by the Department. The application shall:  (a) Estimate the total cost of each proposed residential unit;  (b) State the gross floor area of each proposed residential unit;  (c) State the location of each proposed residence;  (d) State the choice(s) of design type(s) to meet the model conservation standards;  (e) Provide sufficient information to document the applicant’s financial ability to construct each residence for which an incentive is requested;  (f) Provide sufficient information to document the home builder’s record of construction;  (g) State number of control houses or matched-pair control houses the applicant can provide;  (h) If the residence (or matched-pair control house) is a sun-tempered or passive solar design, provide a sun chart for the site;  (i) State that the land is appropriately zoned;  (j) Provide information on available utilities;  (k) State the applicant has control over the land by ownership or by option to purchase;  (l) Provide the home builder’s state registration number;  (m) State the name of proposed lender that will finance construction.  (2) The first day of the selection and evaluation period will be announced by the Department. Applications will be accepted until no more than 200 qualified recipients have been selected by the Department. The Director of the Department may close the application period when a sufficient number of qualified applications have been received or after 60 days, whichever is earlier. If a sufficient number of applications has not been received within 60 days, the Director may establish a second application period.  (3) Applications will be assigned a file number upon receipt.  (4) Applicants will be notified by the Department of the status of their applications within 30 days of their receipt by the Department.  (5) Incomplete applications and applications from parties who do not meet the minimum qualifications will be returned. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 3-1984, f. & ef. 1-30-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
