



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Processed Vegetable Commission - Chapter 647 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 RULES FOR REPORTING AND PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS 
 647-010-0005 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Person” means any individual, corporation, association, partnership or joint stock company.  (2) “Commission” means the Oregon Processed Vegetable Commission.  (3) “First Purchaser” means any person who buys any of the named vegetable crops from the producer in the first instance, or handler who receives the vegetables in the first instance from the producer for resale for processing.  (4) “Producer” means a person or other legal entity producing the named vegetable crops in Oregon for processing, whether as a landowner, landlord, tenant, sharecropper or otherwise.  (5) “Handler” means any producer, processor, distributor or other person engaged in handling or marketing of or dealing in any of the named vegetable crops, whether as owner, agent, employee, broker or otherwise.  (6)(a) Vegetables as described under the Oregon Processed Vegetable Commission include the following species:  (A) Beans, Phaseolus vulgaris L (including green, wax and romano, but not dry beans);  (B) Sweet Corn, Zea May L (or other types of corn processed for human consumption);  (C) Table Beet, Beta Vulgaris L;  (D) Carrot, Daucus carota L;  (E) Broccoli, Brassica Boleracea L Italica group;  (F) Cauliflower, Boleraces L Botrytis group.  (b) Each of these vegetable crops sold through commercial channels (ORS 576.051) to processors are to be included. In this instance, processed means any form of the above named crops used for canning, freezing, drying, dehydrating or pickling. These and other vegetable crops marketed fresh are excluded. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 576 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PVC 2-1985, f. 7-17-85, ef. 7-22-85 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
