



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS UNDER GORGE COMMISSION ORDINANCES 
 350-070-0046 
 Electronic Filing and Service 
 
 (1) The Commission allows filing and service of all documents by electronic mail (email) to the Commission’s Office. All documents to be filed or served shall be emailed to crgc@gorgecommission.org, and shall have a subject heading that clearly identifies the email as filing a document or serving a document and that clearly identifies the appeal by caption and/or appeal number. The Commission allows email filing even if a person opts out of email service. A person need not file a document by mail if that person has already filed the document by email.  (2) All documents may be served by email to persons that do not opt out of email service (see rules below for Notice of Appeal and Notice of Appearance). Persons filing a petition for review are encouraged to communicate with persons who are entitled to receive a copy of the Notice of Appeal about electronic service of the Notice of Appeal.  (3) The preferred format for filed and served documents shall be a searchable portable document format (.pdf). Color originals available electronically, or easily able to be scanned in color shall be filed and served in color. Requirements for color covers or fastening of documents shall not apply to documents filed or served by email.  (4) The Commission understands that persons’ computers and internet service may display times that vary by several minutes, and have different technological capabilities. Persons filing and serving documents by email should communicate with each other to ensure that the documents can be received and read. The Commission will apply the rules in this chapter in the interest of promoting full participation in an appeal, resolving the appeal in an expeditious manner, and to promote justice in disputes concerning email filing and service such as whether a document was timely filed; timely served; should have been filed or served by email; whether and when the document was received; and whether the document was sent in a readable format. In resolving disputes over electronic service, the Commission will consider whether persons made good faith efforts to communicate about electronic mail service and whether persons attempted to resolve the dispute without involving the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 U.S.C. § 544c(b) & 16 U.S.C. § 544m(a)(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2011, f. 3-23-11, cert. ef. 5-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
