



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Employment Department 
 Chapter 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 LOWER APPEALS 
 471-040-0025 
 The Hearing 
 
 (1) The purpose of the hearing is to inquire fully into the matters at issue and to make a decision on the basis of the evidence adduced at the hearing.  (2) No administrative law judge shall participate in a hearing if the administrative law judge has any private interest in the outcome of the hearing or holds any bias or prejudice which would impair a fair and impartial hearing. All testimony at any hearing before an administrative law judge shall be under oath or affirmation.  (3) The administrative law judge shall conduct and control the hearing. The administrative law judge shall determine the order of the presentation of evidence, administer oaths, examine any witnesses, and may either on the administrative law judge’s own or a party's request exclude witnesses from the hearing room. Parties, or their authorized agents, shall have the right to give testimony and to call and examine witnesses.  (4) Parties may appear on their own behalf or by authorized agent or counsel. The administrative law judge may require agents, other than counsel, when appearing without the party, to provide written authorization to appear for such party. When a party makes a general appearance at a hearing, defects in notice are waived.  (5) Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded but erroneous rulings on evidence shall not preclude the administrative law judge from entering a decision unless shown to have substantially prejudiced the rights of a party. All other evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in conduct of serious affairs shall be admissible. If a question of privilege arises, the administrative law judge shall fully and clearly inform the party of any rights as to such privilege and deal with procedural problems created by the existence of such issue in a way which protects the party's right to a fair hearing. Objections to evidentiary offers may be made and shall be noted in the record. Any part of the evidence may be received in written form. Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts, or by incorporation by reference.  (6) All evidence shall be offered and made a part of the record in the case, and except for matters stipulated to and except for notice taken, no other factual information or evidence shall be considered by the administrative law judge in making the decision. The experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge of the administrative law judge may be utilized in the evaluation of the evidence presented. The administrative law judge may offer and receive evidence deemed relevant and essential by the administrative law judge to a fair disposition of the issues.  (7) The administrative law judge may take official notice of judicially cognizable facts. The administrative law judge may take notice of general, technical, or scientific facts within the administrative law judge’s specialized knowledge and may take notice of documents, records, and forms retained within the Employment Department's files. The administrative law judge shall notify the parties of any official notice taken during the hearing or in the decision prior to such decision becoming final. Parties shall be afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed during the hearing or prior to the administrative law judge’s decision becoming final.  (8) In any hearing, the administrative law judge shall render a decision on the issue and law involved as stated in the notice of hearing. The administrative law judge’s jurisdiction and authority is confined solely to the issue(s) arising under the Employment Department Law. Subject to objection by any party, the administrative law judge may also hear and enter a decision on any issue not previously considered by the authorized representative of the Director and which arose during the hearing. The administrative law judge may continue the hearing or remand the matter to the authorized representative for consideration and action upon such issue(s) under the provisions of ORS 657.265. However, in no event shall the administrative law judge accept jurisdiction of a new issue and proceed with hearing on such issue when an interested party to such new issue has not waived right to notice. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 657 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 657.280, 657.610 & 657 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ED 4-2004, f. 7-30-04, cert. ef. 8-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ED 3-1999, f. 6-29-99, cert. ef. 7-4-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1DE 153, f. 12-23-77, ef. 1-1-78 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1DE 150, f. & ef. 2-9-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
