



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 43 CHEMICAL MINING 
 340-043-0030 
 Permit Application 
 
 (1) The permit application shall fully describe the existing site and environmental conditions, with an analysis of how the proposed operation will affect the site and its environment. The application shall, at a minimum, contain the information specified for the DOGAMI (Department of Geology and Mineral Industries) consolidated application under ORS 517.971 (Section 13, Chapter 735, 1991 Oregon Laws). The Department will also use the information contained in NEPA (National Environmental Policy Act), EA (Environmental Assessment), or EIS (Environmental Impact Statement) documents, if they are required for the project, as partial fulfillment of the requirements of this section.  (2) The permit application shall, in addition to the information described in section (1) of this rule, include the following information, unless the information has been otherwise submitted:  (a) Climate/meteorology characterization, with supporting data;  (b) Soils characterization, with supporting data;  (c) Surface water hydrology study, with supporting data;  (d) Characterization of surface water and groundwater quality;  (e) Inventory of surface water and groundwater beneficial uses;  (f) Hydrogeologic characterization of groundwater, with supporting data;  (g) Geologic engineering, hazards and geo-technical study, with supporting data;  (h) Characterization of mine materials and wastes which include, for example, overburden, waste rock, stockpiled ore, leached ore and tailings. Characterization of mine materials and wastes shall include, but not be limited to the following:  (A) Chemical and mineral analysis related to toxicity;  (B) Determination of the potential for acid water formation;  (C) Determination of the potential for long-term leaching of toxic materials from the wastes:  (i) Characterization of wastewater (quantity and chemical and physical quality) produced by the operation;  (j) Assessment of the potential for acid-water formation from waste disposal facilities, low-grade ore stockpiles, waste rock piles and for surface water or groundwater accumulation in open pits that will remain after mining is ended.  (3) Data submitted by the permit applicant should be based on analysis of the actual materials, when possible, or may be based on estimates from knowledge of similar operations and professional judgment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.790, 517.915 & 517.920 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 23-1992, f. & cert. ef. 9-8-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
