



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 STATE ARCHIVES, STATE RECORDS CENTER, AND SECURITY COPY DEPOSITORY SERVICES 
 166-010-0018 
 State Records Center 
 
 The State Records Center accepts records for storage under the following conditions:  (1) Only state agencies with approved records retention schedules can store records at the State Records Center.  (2) Official custody of the records transferred to the State Records Center remains with the state agency from which they were received or its legal successor.  (3) Prior approval is required for state agencies to transfer public records to the State Records Center. These transfers will be completed according to procedures, criteria and standards established by the State Archivist which are available on request.  (4) Requests from the depositing state agency for records or information stored at the state Records Center shall be made by mail or fax, and only by authorized personnel. Phone requests are not accepted.  (5) Deliveries to state agencies of public records as requested will be made as follows:  (a) Deliveries will be made through the Central Mail Service of the Department of Administrative Services to state agencies served by that Department.  (b) Postal service will be used for deliveries to state agencies which are not served by the Central Mail Service at the expense of the depositing agency.  (c) Under special circumstances, the agency may make prior arrangements with the staff of the State Records Center to go to the State Records Center to pick up their request.  (5) A state agency may request or authorize the loan or return of public records in its official custody from the State Records Center as follows:  (a) Loans of individual files or boxes may be made and a follow-up system for loaned public records will be observed.  (b) All requests for loan or return of public records in the State Records Center must originate from authorized personnel of the state agency which has official custody of the public records.  (c) A state agency must authorize in writing the State Records Center to loan or transfer public records in its official custody to another agency.  (6) Storage fees for the State Records Center are based on a biennial assessment and are listed in the State Price List. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005 - 192.170 & 357.805 - 357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 9-2009, f. & cert. ef. 10-15-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
