



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 ALTERNATIVE INSURANCE ORGANIZATIONS 
 836-014-0260 
 Rights and Duties of Parties to Life Settlement Contract 
 
 (1) A policyholder or certificate holder who has entered a life settlement contract has the right to retain additional benefits or optional riders that were part of the life insurance policy, including but not limited to disability income, accidental death and dismemberment and spouse, children and family riders, but not including term riders. Any premiums payable on the insurance policy or certificate that is the subject of the life settlement contract, including premiums payable for additional benefits retained at the option of the policyholder or certificate holder, shall be paid by the life settlement provider when due, for the remaining duration of the life that is the subject of the life settlement contract.  (2) Except as provided in this section (2), any additional benefit or optional rider that the policyholder or certificate holder elects not to continue must be terminated when the life settlement takes place. A waiver of premium provision may be continued by the life settlement provider.  (3) The life settlement provider does not have the right to any cash surrender value unless all additional benefits retained by the policyholder or certificate holder, whether by rider or endorsement, are in a paid-up status and will be unaffected by any change in cash surrender value.  (4) The life settlement provider shall make the payment of proceeds of a life settlement to an escrow agent as required in Section 13, chapter 711, Oregon Laws 2009 (Enrolled Senate Bill 973) by means of wire transfer or by cashier's check.  (5) Any policyholder or certificate holder who enters into a life settlement contract has the right to rescind the contract not later than the 60th day after the date on which the contract is executed by all parties or not later than the 30th day after the date the policyholder or certificate holder receives the life settlement proceeds, whichever is the lesser period. Not later than the date on which the life settlement proceeds are paid to the policyholder or certificate holder, the life settlement provider must give the policyholder or certificate holder a written statement of the date on which the rescission period expires. The statement must include a notice to the policyholder or certificate holder that a rescission is not complete until the full payment, including any premiums paid by the life settlement provider, is returned to the life settlement provider and that the full payment must be returned not later than the 30th day after the date specified for expiration of the rescission period.  (6) If the statement required in section (5) of this rule is given by mail, it shall be considered to be given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid.  (7) If notice of rescission is given by mail, it shall be considered to be given when deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid.  (8) A life settlement broker represents exclusively the owner, and not the insurer or the life settlement provider, and owes a fiduciary duty to the owner, including a duty to act according to the owner’s instructions and in the best interest of the owner.  (9) The life settlement investment agent does not have the right to have any contact with the owner or insured under a policy or to any knowledge of the identity of the owner or insured. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 744.358 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 744.341, Sec. 11, Ch. 711 & OL 2009 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 1-2010, f. & cert. ef. 1-5-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 15-2006, f. & cert. ef. 7-27-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 14-1997, f. & cert. ef. 10-17-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 3-1996, f. & cert. ef. 2-26-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
