



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 WASTEWATER SERVICE REGULATION FOR JOINT WATER/WASTEWATER UTILITIES 
 860-037-0065 
 Design, Construction, and Operation 
 
 (1) The wastewater utility owner is responsible and liable for meeting the requirements for all applicable laws, rules, and codes and for the wastewater (sewage) that passes through the collection, treatment, and disposal plants.  (2) The wastewater utility owner is responsible for obtaining and maintaining all permits, licenses, approvals, design, equipment and materials selection, installation, testing, operation, and maintenance of the complete wastewater system.  (3) Each wastewater utility shall maintain and operate wastewater treatment facilities of adequate size and properly equipped to collect, transport, and treat wastewater, and discharge the effluent at the degree of purity required by the health laws of the DEQ, and all federal, state, and local regulatory agencies and authorities having jurisdiction over such matters.  (4) All materials used in construction of a wastewater system must be structurally sound, durable, and capable of withstanding normal stresses incidental to installation and operation, and will meet or exceed the industry established standards, codes, and requirements of entities having such authority.  (5) Wastewater treatment facilities shall be constructed, installed, maintained, and operated in accordance with accepted engineering practice to assure, as far as reasonably possible, continuity of service, uniformity in the quality of service furnished, and the safety of persons and property.  (6) While prudently managing costs, the design and construction of the wastewater utility’s collecting main lines, treatment plant and facilities, and all additions thereto and modifications thereof, shall meet or exceed the requirements of all regulatory authorities, construction codes, and industry standards.  (7) The capacity of the treatment facilities for the collection, treatment, and disposal of wastewater and wastewater effluent must be sufficiently sized to meet all normal demands for service and provide reasonable reserve for emergencies.  (8) Each wastewater utility shall adopt procedures for inspection of its plant and facilities to assure safe and adequate operation and shall make inspections of its plant on a regular basis. The procedures shall be filed with the Commission. The wastewater utility shall maintain a record of inspections, findings, and corrective action required and/or taken, by location and date.  (9) All components of the wastewater system must be operated and maintained so as not to create a public health hazard or cause water pollution, and without interruption, sewage spills, sewage backup, or other unhealthful conditions.  (a) The owner must establish operating procedures and maintain appropriate qualified staff and adequate inventory of necessary spare parts such as pumps, piping, electrical controls, and valves.  (b) A failing system must be immediately repaired. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 757.005 & 757.061 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 5-2004, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2000, f. 4-18-00, cert. ef. 4-20-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 9-1999(Temp), f. 10-22-99, cert. ef. 10-23-99 thru 4-19-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
