



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 1 MEDICAID AND LONG TERM CARE (MLTCQRAC) AND CONTESTED CASE HEARINGS 
 411-001-0510 
 Lay Representation in Contested Case Hearings 
 
 (1) Subject to the approval of the Attorney General, an officer or employee of the Department of Human Services (Department) is authorized to appear on behalf of the Department in the following types of hearings conducted by the Office of Administrative Hearings:  (a) Eligibility for public assistance services or other benefits available through a waiver or state plan administered by the Department’s Aging and People with Disabilities (APD) or Office of Developmental Disability Services (ODDS), including but not limited to the level or amount of benefits, and effective date;  (b) Eligibility for medical benefits, the level and amount of benefits, and effective date;  (c) Eligibility for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the level and amount of benefits, and effective date, and the termination, suspension, reduction, or denial of benefits.  (d) Client overpayments and intentional program violations related to public assistance or medical assistance, SNAP, waivered or state plan service benefits or medical benefits;  (e) Medical assistance, including but not limited to eligibility for services available through a waiver or state plan for medical assistance, the level and amount of services or benefits, and the termination, suspension, reduction, or denial of medical assistance services, prior authorizations, or medical management decisions; and  (f) Consumer-employed provider matters, including but not limited to provider enrollment or denial of enrollment, overpayment determinations, audits, and sanctions; and  (g) Provider enrollment or denial of enrollment, provider overpayments, audits, and audit sanctions.  (2) A Department officer or employee acting as the Department’s representative may not make legal argument on behalf of the Department.  (a) "Legal argument" includes arguments on:  (A) The jurisdiction of the Department to hear the contested case;  (B) The constitutionality of a statute or rule or the application of a constitutional requirement to the Department; and  (C) The application of court precedent to the facts of the particular contested case proceeding.  (b) "Legal argument" does not include presentation of motions, evidence, examination and cross-examination of witnesses, or presentation of factual arguments or arguments on:  (A) The application of the statutes or rules to the facts in the contested case;  (B) Comparison of prior actions of the Department in handling similar situations;  (C) The literal meaning of the statutes or rules directly applicable to the issues in the contested case;  (D) The admissibility of evidence; and  (E) The correctness of procedures being followed in the contested case hearing.  (3) When an officer or employee appears on behalf of the Department, the administrative law judge shall advise the Department's representative of the manner in which objections may be made and matters preserved for appeal. Such advice is of a procedural nature and does not change applicable law on waiver or the duty to make timely objection.  (4) If the administrative law judge determines that statements or objections made by the Department representative appearing under section (1) of this rule involve legal argument as defined in this rule, the administrative law judge shall provide reasonable opportunity for the Department representative to consult the Attorney General and permit the Attorney General to present argument at the hearing or to file written legal argument within a reasonable time after conclusion of the hearing.  (5) The Department is subject to the Code of Conduct for Non-Attorney Representatives at Administrative Hearings, which is maintained by the Oregon Department of Justice and available at http://www.doj.state.or.us. A Department representative appearing under section (1) of this rule must read and be familiar with the Code of Conduct for Non-Attorney Representatives at Administrative Hearings.  (6) When a Department officer or employee represents the Department in a contested case hearing, requests for admission and written interrogatories are not permitted. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.452 & 409.010 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 15-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 44-2013, f. 12-13-13, cert. ef. 12-15-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 14-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 7-1-13 thru 12-28-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 6-2013, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
