



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 POLE LINES, BURIED CABLES, PIPE LINES, SIGNS, MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS 
 734-055-0035 
 Insurance and Bond 
 
 (1) When requested in writing by the DM, applicant or its contractor shall obtain and carry, for the period that the facility is being located, installed or constructed or any operation conducted, in order to assume responsibility under OAR 734-055-0025(1) including the repair and restoration of the highway facilities, and also during such future period of time when activities are performed involving the repair, relocation or removal of said facilities or operations conducted which have been authorized by the permit, a certificate of self-insurance or liability and property damage insurance policy or policies providing the coverage against any claim, demand, suit or action for property damage, personal injury, or death resulting from any activities of applicant, its officers, employees, agents or contractors in connection with the location, installation, construction, repair, removal or use of the said facilities or operations being conducted as authorized by the permit and the repair and restoration of the highway facilities, and the said certificate of self-insurance or policy or policies, in addition, shall include as named insureds the State of Oregon, the Commission, the Department, and members thereof, its officers, agents and employees, except as to claims against applicant, for personal injury to any members of the Commission, the Department, or its officers, agents, and employees, or damage to any of its or their property. The said self-insurance certificate or policy shall provide proof of coverage of a combined single unit of $500,000. The said insurance policy or policies shall be in an insurance company duly authorized and licensed to do business in the State of Oregon. A copy of the certificate of self-insurance or policy or policies, or a certificate evidencing the same, shall be submitted to the Department of Transportation, Maintenance and Operations Branch, 455 Airport Road SE, Building K, Salem OR 97301 and approved by this office before any work is commenced under the permit.  (2) When requested in writing by the DM, applicant or its contractor shall furnish for the period of time necessary to construct or install a facility or conduct an operation authorized by the permit, including the repair and restoration of the highway facilities, or the conducting of any operations and also during such future periods of time when activities are performed involving the repair, relocation or removal of said facilities authorized by the permit, a bond or cash deposit in the amount specified in the Special Provisions of the permit. If a bond is furnished, it must be written by a surety company duly qualified and licensed to do business in the State of Oregon and in a form satisfactory to the Engineer. No work shall be commenced under the permit until the said bond has been submitted to and approved by, or the said cash deposit has been received by the Department of Transportation, Maintenance and Operations Branch, 455 Airport Road SE, Building K, Salem OR 97301. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 374 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 2HD 2-1981, f. & ef. 2-25-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HC 1176, f. 9-24-68 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
