



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 405 STATE AGENCY COORDINATION PROGRAM 
 635-405-0030 
 Dispute Resolution 
 
 (1) The Department shall attempt to resolve all disputes regarding land use issues by direct contact with the applicable local governing body(ies). Whenever possible, Department efforts to avoid and resolve potential land use conflicts concerning a specific use or action shall be conducted prior to and through local government land proceedings. These efforts may include Department participation in pre-application meetings and conflict mediation activities, and provision of technical information and assistance to project applicants as well as the applicable local governing body(ies).  (2) In the event the Department and an applicable local governing body do not agree that a Department program or action, or local governing body action is compatible with the applicable acknowledged comprehensive plan(s) and land use regulations, the Department will attempt to resolve the dispute through the following procedures:  (a) Department staff, where appropriate, may request meetings with planning staff or other representatives of the local government to discuss:  (A) The ways in which the proposed Department program or action can be made compatible with the jurisdiction’s comprehensive plan and land use regulations, including possible modfication of the proposed program or action, while achieving the Department’s desired results;  (B) Existing or possible Department alternative actions, including withdrawal of the proposal.  (b) When determined to be necessary by the Department, local denials of Department requests for land use approvals or compatibility determinations may be pursued through appropriate appeals processes.  (c) Where appropriate, the statutory plan amendment and periodic review processes shall be used to obtain local land use approvals for a program or action proposed by the Department which affects land use.  (d) If the dispute is not resolved through subsections (2)(a)–(c) of this rule, the Department may request informal mediation or a compatibility determination from the LCDC in accordance with OAR 660-030-0070. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197 & 496 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197 & 496 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 66-1990, f. & cert. ef. 6-27-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
