



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 410 STATEWIDE WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
 690-410-0020 
 Hydroelectric Power Development 
 
 (1) Policy — Development and production of hydroelectric power is a beneficial use. However, construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities have had significant adverse impacts on the state’s natural resources. New hydroelectric development shall be permitted if it can be demonstrated that there will be no harm to the state’s anadromous salmon and steelhead fish resource and habitat, and no net loss of the state’s other natural resources. Relicensing of existing facilities, which have adversely impacted, or may preclude the recovery of, anadromous fish resources shall include measures to restore, enhance or improve the anadromous fish resource. The relicensing of any facility shall include measures to prevent the net loss of other natural resources resulting from future operation of the facility.  (2) Principles — Programs to achieve the policy in section (1) of this rule shall be guided by the following principles:  (a) Hydroelectric power can provide valuable economic and social benefits when the natural resources of the state are protected from potential adverse impacts;  (b) Proposed or relicensed projects that can be developed consistent with Oregon’s resource protection standards should be encouraged. New development shall be consistent with the provisions of the Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program as adopted by the Northwest Power Planning Council pursuant to PL 96-501;  (c) Mitigation shall be required for harm to Oregon’s natural resources caused or likely to be caused by new permitted hydroelectric power development. These natural resources include but are not limited to anadromous fish, wildlife, water quality, scenic and aesthetic values, historic, cultural and archeological sites;  (d) On relicensing of existing facilities, measures for restoration, enhancement or improvement for past harms to Oregon’s anadromous and steelhead resource shall be considered and implemented; and  (e) The state shall ensure that the laws of the state and the rules of the Commission concerning hydroelectric power development are satisfied at every stage of any hydroelectric power project. The state shall assert these laws and rules when participating in federal proceedings involving hydroelectric power. Participation in these proceedings by state agencies shall be fostered through the Strategic Water Management Group (SWMG). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 536 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 8-1990, f. & cert. ef. 6-25-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
