



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-2320 
 Substations 
 
 This paragraph provides additional requirements for substations and for work performed in them.  (1) Access and working space. The employer must provide and maintain sufficient access and working space around electric equipment to permit ready and safe operation and maintenance of such equipment by employees.  NOTE to paragraph (1): American National Standard: National Electrical Safety Code, ANSI/IEEE C2-2012 contains guidelines for the dimensions of access and working space about electric equipment in substations. Installations meeting the ANSI provisions comply with paragraph (u)(1) of this rule. Oregon OSHA will determine whether an installation that does not conform to this ANSI standard complies with paragraph (1) of this rule based on the following criteria:  Whether the installation conforms to the edition of ANSI C2 that was in effect when the installation was made.  Whether the configuration of the installation enables employees to maintain the minimum approach distances, established by the employer under paragraph (3)(a) of 437-002-2311, while the employees are working on exposed, energized parts, and  Whether the precautions taken when employees perform work on the installation provide protection equivalent to the protection provided by access and working space meeting ANSI/IEEE C2-2012.  (2) Draw-out-type circuit breakers. The employer must ensure that, when employees remove or insert draw-out-type circuit breakers, the breaker is in the open position. The employer must also render the control circuit inoperable if the design of the equipment permits.  (3) Substation fences. Conductive fences around substations must be grounded. When a substation fence is expanded or a section is removed, fence sections must be isolated, grounded, or bonded as necessary to protect employees from hazardous differences in electric potential.  NOTE to paragraph (3): IEEE Std 80-2000, IEEE Guide for Safety in AC Substation Grounding, contains guidelines for protection against hazardous differences in electric potential.  (4) Guarding of rooms and other spaces containing electric supply equipment.  (a) Rooms and other spaces in which electric supply lines or equipment are installed must meet the requirements of paragraphs (4)(a) through (4)(e) of this rule under the following conditions:  (A) If exposed live parts operating at 50 to 150 volts to ground are within 2.4 meters (8 feet) of the ground or other working surface inside the room or other space,  (B) If live parts operating at 151 to 600 volts to ground and located within 2.4 meters (8 feet) of the ground or other working surface inside the room or other space are guarded only by location, as permitted under paragraph (5)(a) of this rule, or  (C) If live parts operating at more than 600 volts to ground are within the room or other space, unless:  (i) The live parts are enclosed within grounded, metal-enclosed equipment whose only openings are designed so that foreign objects inserted in these openings will be deflected from energized parts, or  (ii) The live parts are installed at a height, above ground and any other working surface, that provides protection at the voltage on the live parts corresponding to the protection provided by a 2.4-meter (8-foot) height at 50 volts.  (b) Fences, screens, partitions, or walls must enclose the rooms and other spaces so as to minimize the possibility that unqualified persons will enter.  (c) Unqualified persons may not enter the rooms or other spaces while the electric supply lines or equipment are energized.  (d) The employer must display signs at entrances to the rooms and other spaces warning unqualified persons to keep out.  (e) The employer must keep each entrance to a room or other space locked, unless the entrance is under the observation of a person who is attending the room or other space for the purpose of preventing unqualified employees from entering.  (5) Guarding of energized parts.  (a) The employer must provide guards around all live parts operating at more than 150 volts to ground without an insulating covering unless the location of the live parts gives sufficient clearance (horizontal, vertical, or both) to minimize the possibility of accidental employee contact.  NOTE to paragraph (5)(a): American National Standard: National Electrical Safety Code, ANSI/IEEE C2-2002 contains guidelines for the dimensions of clearance distances about electric equipment in substations. Installations meeting the ANSI provisions comply with paragraph (5)(a) of this rule. Oregon OSHA will determine whether an installation that does not conform to this ANSI standard complies with paragraph (5)(a) of this rule based on the following criteria:  Whether the installation conforms to the edition of ANSI C2 that was in effect when the installation was made,  Whether each employee is isolated from energized parts at the point of closest approach; and  Whether the precautions taken when employees perform work on the installation provide protection equivalent to the protection provided by horizontal and vertical clearances meeting ANSI/IEEE C2-2002.  (b) Except for fuse replacement and other necessary access by qualified persons, the employer must maintain guarding of energized parts within a compartment during operation and maintenance functions to prevent accidental contact with energized parts and to prevent dropped tools or other equipment from contacting energized parts.  (c) Before guards are removed from energized equipment, the employer must install barriers around the work area to prevent employees who are not working on the equipment, but who are in the area, from contacting the exposed live parts.  (d) Proper identification and warning signs must be posted at all entrances to battery rooms or compartments.  (6) Substation entry.  (a) Upon entering an attended substation, each employee, other than employees regularly working in the station, must report their presence to the employee in charge of substation activities to receive information on special system conditions affecting employee safety.  (b) The job briefing required by 437-002-2302 Job Briefing, Division 2/RR; must cover information on special system conditions affecting employee safety, including the location of energized equipment in or adjacent to the work area and the limits of any deenergized work area. Job briefings apply equally to unattended and attended substations and to employees already working in a substation and employees who enter a substation.  (c) A qualified safety watch must be provided for all other work being performed in any energized substation yard except when the work is separated from all energized equipment by a barrier.  (d) Qualified nonelectrical workers will be allowed to work in substations without barriers and without a safety watch if all the following conditions are observed:  (A) Permission to enter must be obtained from the substation operator or other authorized person.  (B) Each qualified nonelectrical worker must be trained and competent as required by 437-002-2300(2)(b) Training, of Division 2/RR, and must have demonstrated proficiencies in the work practices involved as required by 437-002-2300 (2)(h) Training, Division 2/RR.  NOTE: Employees who have not demonstrated proficiency in the work practices involved are considered to be undergoing on-the-job training and must be under the direct supervision of a qualified employee.  (C) The worker must not work off the ground without the specific approval of the person responsible for control of entry except to operate such equipment as light motor vehicles, which have no equipment or loads that can project above the cab. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 3-2015, f. 10-9-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
