



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 63 VOLUNTARY BUILDING ENERGY PERFORMANCE SCORE SYSTEMS 
 330-063-0015 
 Home Energy Performance Score System Requirements 
 
 (1) A home energy performance score system must:  (a) Generate a home energy performance score that meets the requirements of section (2);  (b) Generate a home energy performance report that meets the requirements of sections (3) through (5);  (c) Incorporate building energy assessment software, the output of which must be used to derive the information presented on the home energy performance report;  (d) Provide or specify required training in the use of the home energy performance score system for home energy assessors; and  (e) Establish minimum performance standards for quality assurance.  (2) A home energy performance score must be an asset rating that is based on physical inspection of the home or design documents used for the home’s construction.  (3) A home energy performance report must include the following information:  (a) The U.S. Department of Energy’s Home Energy Score and an explanation of the score;  (b) An estimate of the total annual energy used in the home in retail units of energy, by fuel type, generated by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Home Energy Scoring Tool;  (c) An estimate of the total annual energy generated by on-site solar electric, wind electric, hydroelectric, and solar water heating systems in retail units of energy, by type of fuel displaced by the generation;  (d) An estimate of the total monthly or annual cost of energy purchased for use in the home in dollars, by fuel type, based on data provided by the Department for the current average annual retail residential energy price of the utility serving the home at the time of the report and the average annual energy prices of non-regulated fuels, by fuel type;  (e) The current average annual utility retail residential energy price in dollars, by fuel type, and the average annual energy prices of non-regulated fuels, by fuel type, provided by the Department and used to determine the costs described in subsection (d) of this section;  (f) At least one comparison home energy performance score that provides context for the range of possible scores. Examples of comparison homes include, but are not limited to, a similar home with Oregon’s average energy consumption, the same home built to Oregon energy code, and the same home with certain energy efficiency upgrades.  (g) The name of the entity that assigned the home energy performance score and that entity’s Construction Contractors Board license number if such a license is required by law;  (h) The date the building energy assessment was performed; and  (i) For reports that meet all requirements of this division, the statement “This report meets Oregon’s Home Energy Performance Score standard.” Reports generated by home energy performance score systems that have not been approved for use in Oregon according to OAR 330-063-0020 may not include this statement.  (4) Additional information that may be presented in a home energy performance report includes, but is not limited to:  (a) A home energy performance score described in section (2) that meets the requirements of OAR 330-063-0020, and an explanation of the score;  (b) A list of recommended energy efficiency upgrades for the building;  (c) A hypothetical home energy performance score representing the score the building would be expected to receive upon completion of the energy efficiency upgrades in subsection (4)(b);  (d) The estimated amount of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, in metric tons, resulting from the energy used in the home based on the carbon intensity, as reported on the department website, of the electricity provided by the electric utility that serves the home, natural gas and other fuel types used in the home.  (5) A home energy performance report must consist, at a minimum, of either:  (a) a printed document that presents all information required under section (3) on a single side of a single 8.5 by 11 inch page; or  (b) a downloadable electronic document that is formatted for printing and presents all information required under section (3) on a single side of a single 8.5 by 11 inch page. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.703 & 469.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.703 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 6-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-21-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 5-2014, f. 6-30-14, cert. ef. 7-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
