



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 GROUNDWATER QUALITY PROTECTION 
 340-040-0200 
 Wellhead Protection: Decertification Procedure 
 
 (1) If the signatories to a Wellhead Protection Plan do not recertify or submit for recertification their previously certified Wellhead Protection Plan, then the Plan is automatically decertified until such time as the signatories of the Plan recertify the Plan through the update procedure per OAR 340-040-0190.  (2) Any Responsible Management Authority that is a signatory to a certified Plan shall have the ability to withdraw from participation in a Wellhead Protection Plan and the certification process. The Department shall review the plan to determine if the plan is still certifiable without the participation of the withdrawing Responsible Management Authority.  (3) A plan can also be decertified by the Department if it comes to the Department’s attention that a signatory to a plan is not or has not adhered to and implemented the certified Plan.  (4) To decertify a Wellhead Protection Plan, the Department will send a certified letter to all signatories to the Plan detailing the reason(s) why the Department believes the certified Plan is or was not being followed or is no longer valid and the Department’s intent to decertify the Plan:  (a) The signatories to the Plan will have 30 days to respond as to why their Plan should not be decertified;  (b) The Department will review the signatories response and make a determination as to whether the Plan is still certifiable;  (c) The Department will then send a copy of its decision to all signatories of the Plan.  (5) The Department will afford the remaining signatories the opportunity to maintain the certification, provided withdrawal by a Responsible Management Authority does not render the Plan uncertifiable, by notifying the Department and all other Responsible Management Authorities within the Wellhead Protection Area that they will continue to implement the plan as certified in their respective jurisdictions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 & 468B 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468 & 468B 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 1-1996, f. & cert. ef. 1-18-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
