



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 32 OREGON SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM 
 734-032-0030 
 Categories of Routes 
 
 There are two categories of routes in the Scenic Byways system. Scenic Byways include the most scenic routes with road standards that would accommodate most travelers. These routes encompass scenic, historic, recreational and cultural values of not only the roadway right-of-way, but also the adjacent visual resources. Tour Routes include all the other purely scenic routes with limited driveability as well as routes with special features. Further definition of these routes are:  (1) Scenic Byways encompass national or statewide known scenic values of the roadway and adjacent visual resources. In general, scenic routes are paved, passable by passenger car and meet certain road and safety standards. This classification contains examples of truly spectacular routes with national or statewide recognition and the best scenic drives in Oregon. The Scenic Byways shall include the many varieties of the Oregon landscape and shall be distributed throughout the state. The number of routes shall be limited so the state is not saturated with scenic drives. The pattern of routes shall not be confusing to the public. Crisscrossing or overlap of designated routes shall be avoided.  (2) Tour Routes encompass regionally or locally known scenic, cultural or historic values which also have features or points of interest that tend to draw people out of their cars. These could include wine tours, covered bridge tours or resource management tours. Tour routes may also be more primitive routes requiring high-clearance vehicles, with scenery ranging from national to local. Tour Routes may be paved, but some are not, and a few require four-wheel drive vehicles, while others are driveable by normal passenger car. The routes shall be safe for the prescribed season and required type of vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.617 & 184.619 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1994, f. & ef. 12-29-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
