



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 SCHOOL GOVERNANCE AND STUDENT CONDUCT 
 581-021-0553 
 Use of Restraint and Seclusion in Public Education Programs
 
 
 (1)(a) The use of the following types of restraint on a student in a public education program is prohibited: 

 (A) Chemical restraint; 

 (B) Mechanical restraint; 

 (C) Prone restraint; 

 (D) Supine restraint; 

 (E)(i) Any restraint that involves the intentional and nonincidental use of a solid object, including a wall or the floor, to impede a student’s movement, unless the restraint is necessary to prevent an imminent life-threatening injury or to gain control of a weapon; 

 (ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(E)(i) of this subsection, the use of a solid object, including a piece of furniture, a wall, or the floor, by public education program personnel performing a restraint is not prohibited if the object is used for the personnel’s own stability or support while performing the restraint and not as a mechanism to apply pressure directly to the student’s body; 

 (F)(i) Any restraint that places, or creates a risk of placing, pressure on a student’s mouth, neck or throat, or that impedes, or creates a risk of impeding, a student’s breathing; 

 (ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(F)(i) of this subsection, a restraint that places, or creates a risk of placing, pressure on a student’s mouth may be used if the restraint is necessary for the purpose of extracting a body part from a bite; 

 (G) Any restraint that involves the intentional placement of the hands, feet, elbow, knee or any object on a student’s neck, throat, genitals or other intimate parts; and 

 (H) Any restraint that causes pressure to be placed, or creates a risk of causing pressure to be placed, on a student’s stomach or back by a knee, foot or elbow bone. 

 (b) The use of any action designed for the primary purpose of inflicting pain upon a student in a public education program is prohibited. 

 (2) Restraint or seclusion may not be used for discipline, punishment, retaliation or convenience of personnel, contractors or volunteers of a public education program. 

 (3)(a) Restraint may be used on a student in a public education program only under the following circumstances: 

 (A) The student’s behavior imposes a reasonable risk of imminent and substantial physical or bodily injury to the student or others; and 

 (B) Less restrictive interventions would not be effective. 

 (b) Seclusion may be used on a student in a public education program only under the following circumstances: 

 (A) The student’s behavior imposes a reasonable risk of imminent and serious bodily injury to the student or others; and 

 (B) Less restrictive interventions would not be effective. 

 (4) If restraint or seclusion is used on a student, the restraint or seclusion must be: 

 (a) Used only for as long as the student's behavior poses a reasonable risk as described in subsection (3) of this rule; 

 (b) Imposed by personnel of the public education program who are: 

 (A) Trained to use restraint or seclusion through programs approved by the Department of Education under OAR 581-021-0563; or 

 (B) Otherwise available in the case of an emergency circumstance when trained personnel are not immediately available due to the unforeseeable nature of the emergency circumstance; and 

 (c) Continuously monitored by personnel of the public education program for the duration of the restraint or seclusion. 

 (5) If restraint or seclusion continues for more than 30 minutes: 

 (a) The student must be provided with adequate access to the bathroom and water every 30 minutes; 

 (b) Personnel of the public education program must immediately attempt to verbally or electronically notify a parent or guardian of the student; and 

 (c) Every 15 minutes after the first 30 minutes of the restraint or seclusion, an administrator for the public education program must provide written authorization for the continuation of the restraint or seclusion, including providing documentation for the reason the restraint or seclusion must be continued. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS. 326.051 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 339.285 - 339.303 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 145-2019, amend filed 10/24/2019, effective 10/24/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 15-2014, f. & cert. ef. 3-4-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 13-2014, f. & cert. ef. 2-19-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 12-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 5-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
