



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Psychiatric Security Review Board 
 Chapter 859 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 ADULT PSYCHIATRIC SECURITY REVIEW BOARD HEARING PROCEDURES 
 859-050-0105 
 Protocol for Media at Hearings
 
 
 (1) Public Access Coverage Defined. As used in this rule: 

 (a) “Public access coverage” means coverage by means of any public access coverage equipment. 

 (b) “Public access coverage equipment” means any of the following in the possession of persons other than the PSRB or the PSRB staff: television equipment; still photographer equipment; audio, video, or other electronic recording equipment. 

 (2) Notification to Record Hearings. The news media must notify the PSRB of their request to record video, still photography, or audio of a PSRB proceeding by submitting a request for media or other public access coverage of PSRB at least one business day (24 hours) prior to the scheduled hearing day. Notice of media or public access coverage requests given to the PSRB less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to a scheduled hearing will be taken under advisement by the Board and may result in coverage access being denied directly in the hearings room. PSRB rules require that an original be filed with the PSRB. Submissions will be emailed to PSRB at: psrb@oregon.gov. 

 (3) Equipment and Operators 

 (a) Only one television camera and/or one still camera each with a single camera operator will be permitted in the PSRB proceeding. Cameras and operators must be in designated locations. Interviews may only be conducted in the area designated by the Board, or Health Systems, if hearings are conducted at OSH. 

 (b) It is up to the PSRB Board Chair, or Acting Chair, typically through its staff, to decide where cameras and microphones may be placed in the hearings room. Each hearings room is different and PSRB Board members may differ on this so operators must ask for assistance to determine camera placement on the day of the hearing. 

 (c) Equipment and camera operators must be in place prior to the PSRB hearing. Equipment must not be installed, moved or removed from the hearings room while the PSRB hearing is in session. Camera operators may not move around the hearings room while hearings are in session. 

 (d) News media must arrange any pooling of footage, photographs or audio among themselves. Typically, the first camera to arrive at the hearings room will be allowed to set up in the hearings room. The PSRB will not participate in any pooling agreement. The PSRB will not mediate in the event of disagreements about pooling arrangements. Disagreements about pooling arrangements will not result in additional media equipment being allowed into the hearings room and they will not cause a delay in the hearing start time. In the absence of agreement on pooling issues by persons seeking public access coverage, the PSRB Chair or Acting Chair may exclude any or all public access coverage. 

 (e) No public access coverage device will be operated by more than one person. 

 (f) No person will use public access coverage equipment that interferes or distracts from proceedings in the hearings room. 

 (g) The video camera must be mounted on a tripod or other device or installed in the hearings room. The tripod or other device must not be moved while the proceedings are in session. Video equipment must be screened where practicable or located and operated as directed by the Board Chair. 

 (h) No artificial lighting devices of any kind will be allowed. 

 (4) Limitations on Access: Media will not record: 

 (a) Any notes or conversations intended to be private including, but not limited to counsel, victims, Board members and members of the public attending hearings. 

 (b) Portions of the hearing that would interfere with the rights of the parties to a fair hearing or would affect the presentation of evidence or outcome of the hearing. This may include if public access coverage affects the PSRB patient’s ability to effectively participate in his/her hearing. 

 (c) Any portion of the hearing that would interfere with a victim’s entitlement to due dignity and respect. This may include prohibiting the recording of a victim impact statement or other portions of the hearing that include graphic depictions of the instant offense. 

 (d) If any cost or increased burden resulting from the public access coverage would interfere with the efficient administration of justice. 

 (5) Recording equipment may not be used in the visitor area. 

 (6) A Board Chair may summarily prohibit public access coverage of particular hearing attendees or witnesses, if the attendee or witness so requests. 

 (7) Violations. Any violation of this rule may result in sanctions including but not limited to the termination of media coverage privileges. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 161.387 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 161.295 - 161.400 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 4-2017, minor correction filed 11/16/2017, effective 11/16/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 3-2017, minor correction filed 10/20/2017, effective 10/20/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 5-2016, f. & cert. ef. 3-17-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 2-2014, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
