



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0233 
 Oregon Rules for Hammerhead Cranes 
 
 (1) Definition. “Hammerhead Crane” — Lifting machine consisting of a tower (mast) with an upperstructure that rotates and includes a load jib (boom) with trolley extending horizontally and a counterweight jib extending in the opposite direction, neither of which is arranged for luffing. The trolley on the load jib traverses the length of the jib and contains the sheaves and accessory parts that comprise the upper load block. The lower load block is suspended from the trolley.  (2) Hammerhead Cranes — General:  (a) Adequate clearance shall be maintained between moving and rotating structures of the crane and fixed objects to allow the passage of employees without harm;  (b) Employees required to perform duties on the horizontal boom of hammerhead tower cranes shall be protected against falling by guardrails or by safety belts and lanyards attached to lifelines in conformance with OAR chapter 437, division 2/I, Personal Protective Equipment;  (c) Buffers shall be provided at both ends of travel of the trolley;  (d) Cranes mounted on rail tracks shall be equipped with limit switches limiting the travel of the crane on the track and stops or buffers at each end of the tracks. Cranes with self-contained power plants shall be equipped with warning devices, and stops or buffers at each end of the track;  (e) All hammerhead cranes in use shall meet the applicable requirements for design, construction, installation, testing, maintenance, inspection, and operation as prescribed by the manufacturer and to ensure compliance with the rules in this division;  (f) The employer shall provide a wind velocity device which will give a visible or audible alarm to the crane operator at a predetermined wind velocity; and  (g) The employer shall ensure that:  (A) The wind velocity device is compatible with the manufacturer’s crane specifications; and  (B) The crane operators are fully instructed regarding the maximum permissible wind speeds during operation; and  (C) The load chart contains the wind velocity operating limits.  (3) Mobile Cranes Mounted on Barges:  (a) When a mobile crane is mounted on a barge, the rated load of the crane shall not exceed the original capacity specified by the manufacturer;  (b) A load rating chart, with clearly legible letters and figures, shall be provided with each crane, and securely fixed at a location easily visible to the operator;  (c) When load ratings are reduced to stay within the limits for list of the barge with a crane mounted on it, a new load rating chart shall be provided;  (d) Mobile cranes on barges shall be positively secured.  (4) Permanently Mounted Floating Cranes and Derricks:  (a) When cranes and derricks are permanently installed on a barge, the capacity and limitations of use shall be based on competent design criteria;  (b) A load rating chart with clearly legible letters and figures shall be provided and securely fixed at a location easily visible to the operator;  (c) Floating cranes and floating derricks in use shall meet the applicable requirements for design, construction, installation, testing, maintenance, and operation as prescribed by the manufacturer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 13-1993, f. 8-20-93, cert. ef. 11-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 3-1981, f. 4-20-81, ef. 6-1-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCB 11-1974, f. 3-20-74, ef. 4-15-74 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
