



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 PAYROLL ADMINISTRATION 
 125-015-0200 
 Electronic Deposit and Electronic Itemized Statements of Net Salary and Wages 
 
 (1) Effective November 29, 2013 Electronic payment of net salary and wages and electronic statements of payroll deductions is the standard for all officers and employees of the state.  (2) All officers and employees paid under the state payroll system shall receive payment of net salary and wages one of three ways:  (a) through electronic payment by direct deposit via Automated Clearing House (ACH) to a checking and/or savings account(s) that is located in a financial institution in the United States; or  (b) through electronic payment by direct deposit via ACH to a reloadable state offered prepaid card; or a reloadable prepaid card provided by the officer or employee: or  (c) payment of net salary and wages by paper check.  (3) Officers and employees receiving payment of net salary and wages through electronic payment shall receive electronically each month’s itemized statement of payroll deductions from the Oregon Statewide Payroll Application.  (4) Officers and employees receiving payment of net salary and wages through paper check shall receive by paper each month’s itemized statements of payroll deductions from the Oregon Statewide Payroll Application.  (5) An officer or employee may receive payment of net salary and wages by paper check and a paper itemized statement of payroll deductions. To do so the officer or employee shall contact the agency in writing noting the desire to be exempt from electronic payment of wages and electronic itemized statements.  (6) Exceptions to electronic payment and electronic itemized statement may be deemed necessary when the agency employing an officer or employee determines that electronic payment of net salary and wages is:  (a) Not practicable or efficient. The criteria agencies may use in deciding whether electronic payment is practicable or efficient include, but are not limited to:  (A) An officer or employee is newly hired and the routing and transfer information is in the process of being verified;  (B) An officer or employee is changing banks, causing the need for an alternate payment method because of the verification process for routing and transfer information;  (C) An officer or employee has been hired into an appointment for a period of 3 months or less;  (D) An officer or employee has on-going leave without pay status, which could result in overpayments if electronic payment is used;  (E) An officer or employee is receiving the final payment of wages due to separation from State employment; and  (F) An officer or employee has not established an account with a bank or financial institution or has not completed the authorization for electronic payment of net salary and wages as described in (2)(a) or (b) above.  (b) Where an officer or employee is mandated by a judicial action to receive payment of net salary and wages by a non-electronic method;  (c) Or, where an agency determines that an alternate method of payment is needed because of security concerns arising from protected-class employment or other sensitive situations identified by the agency. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.340 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 292.026, HB2207 B (OL 2013 & Ch 369) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 4-9-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 3-2013(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-28-13 thru 4-25-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
