



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 RULES REGULATING MINIMUM WAGE, OVERTIME AND WORKING CONDITIONS 
 839-020-0080 
 General Recordkeeping Requirements 
 
 (1) Every employer regulated under ORS 653.010 to 653.261 must maintain and preserve payroll or other records containing the following information and data with respect to each employee to whom the law applies:  (a) Name in full, as used for Social Security recordkeeping purposes, and on the same record, the employee's identifying symbol or number if such is used in place of name on any time, work, or payroll records;  (b) Home address, including zip code;  (c) Date of birth, if under 19;  (d) Occupation in which employed;  (e) Time of day and day of week on which the employee's workweek begins. If the employee is part of a work force or employed in or by an establishment all of whose workers have a workweek beginning at the same time on the same day, a single notation of the time of the day and beginning day of the workweek for the whole work force or establishment will suffice;  (f) Regular hourly rate of pay for any workweek in which overtime compensation is due, and an explanation of the basis of pay by indicating the monetary amount paid on a per hour, per day, per week, per piece, commission on sales, or other basis, and the amount and nature of each payment which, pursuant to ORS 653.261(1) is excluded from the "regular rate of pay". (These records may be in the form of vouchers or other payment data.);  (g) Hours worked each workday and total hours worked each workweek (for purposes of this section, a "workday" is any fixed period of 24 consecutive hours and a "workweek" is any fixed and regularly recurring period of seven consecutive workdays);  (h) Total daily or weekly straight-time earnings or wages due for hours worked during the workday or workweek, exclusive of premium overtime compensation;  (i) Total premium pay for overtime hours. This amount excludes the straight-time earnings for overtime hours recorded under subsection (h) of this section;  (j) Total additions to or deductions from wages paid each pay period including employee purchase orders or wage assignments. Also, in individual employee records, the dates, amounts, and nature of the items which make up the total additions and deductions;  (k) Total wages paid each pay period;  (l) Date of payment and the pay period covered by payment.  (2) Every employer who makes retroactive payment of wages or compensation under the supervision of the U.S. Department of Labor or the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries must record and preserve, as an entry on the pay records, the amount of such payment to each employee, the period covered by such payment, and the date of payment.  (3) With respect to employees working on fixed schedules, an employer may maintain records showing instead of the hours worked each day and each workweek as required by this rule, the schedule of daily and weekly hours the employee normally works, provided:  (a) In weeks in which an employee adheres to this schedule, indicates by check mark, statement or other method that such hours were in fact actually worked by the employee; and  (b) In week in which more or less than the scheduled hours are worked, shows that exact number of hours worked each day and each week.  (4) With respect to each employee in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity (including employees employed in the capacity of academic administrative personnel or teachers in elementary or secondary schools), or in outside sales, as defined in ORS 653.010(8), employers must maintain and preserve records containing all the information and data required by subsections (1)(a) through (e) of this rule and, in addition, the basis on which wages are paid in sufficient detail to permit calculation for each pay period of the employee's total remuneration for employment including fringe benefits and perquisites.  (5) With respect to each employee of hospitals and institutions primarily engaged in the care of persons who are sick or aged or have mental illness or mental retardation and who reside on the premises compensated for overtime work on the basis of a work period of 14 consecutive days pursuant to an agreement or understanding under OAR 839-020-0125(2)(e), employers must maintain and preserve:  (a) The records required by section (1) of this rule except subsections (1)(e) and (g) through (i) of this rule, and in addition:  (A) Time of day and day of week on which the employee's 14-day work period begins;  (B) Hours worked each workday and total hours worked each 14-day work period;  (C) Total straight-time wages paid for hours worked during the 14-day work period;  (D) Total overtime excess compensation paid for hours worked in excess of eight in a workday and 80 in the work period.  (b) A copy of the agreement or understanding with respect to using the 14-day period for overtime pay computations or, if such agreement or understanding is not in writing, a memorandum summarizing its terms and showing the date it was entered into and how long it remains in effect.  (6) With respect to each tipped employee, the employer must maintain and preserve payroll or other records containing all the information and data required in section (1) of this rule and, in addition, a symbol, letter or other notation placed on the pay records identifying each employee. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 653 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 653.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 6-2016, f. 8-29-16, cert. ef. 1-1-17 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 41-2007, f.12-28-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 1-2002, f. & cert. ef. 1-9-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 1-1990, f. 2-27-90, cert. ef. 2-28-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
