



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 RECYCLED WATER USE 
 340-055-0030 
 Operational Requirements for the Treatment and Distribution of Recycled Water 
 
 (1) Bypassing. The intentional diversion of wastewater from any unit process in the wastewater treatment system for a beneficial purpose is not allowed, unless with the unit process out of service the recycled water meets the criteria of this division for a specific class and beneficial purpose described in the recycled water use plan.  (2) Alarm devices. Alarm devices are required to provide warning of power loss and failure of process equipment essential to the proper operation of the wastewater treatment system and compliance with this division.  (3) Standby power. Unless otherwise approved in writing by the department, a wastewater treatment system providing recycled water for use must have sufficient standby power to fully operate all essential treatment processes. The department may grant an exception to this section only if the wastewater treatment system owner demonstrates that power failure will not result in inadequately treated water being provided for use and will not result in any violation of an NPDES or WPCF permit limit or condition or Oregon Administrative Rule.  (4) Redundancy. A wastewater treatment system that provides recycled water for use must have a sufficient level of redundant treatment facilities and monitoring equipment to prevent inadequately treated recycled water from being used or discharged to public waters.  (5) Distribution system requirements. Unless otherwise approved in writing by the department, all piping, valves, and other portions of the recycled water use system that is outside a building must be constructed and marked in a manner to prevent cross-connection with a potable water system. Unless otherwise approved in writing by the department or as required by the rules of this division, construction and marking must be consistent with sections (2), (3), (4), and (5) of the 1992 "Guidelines for the Distribution of Nonpotable Water" of the California-Nevada Section of the American Water Works Association.  (6) Cross-connection control. Connection between a potable water supply system and a recycled water distribution system is not authorized unless the connection is through an air gap separation approved by the department. A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device may be used only when approved in writing by the department and the potable water system owner.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020, 468.705 & 468.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468B.030 & 468B.050 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 6-2008, f. & cert. ef. 5-5-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 32-1990, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
