



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 43 CHEMICAL MINING 
 340-043-0150 
 Guidelines for the Design, Construction, Operation and Closure of Chemical Mining Operations: Guidelines for Heap-Leach and Tailings Disposal Facility Closure
 
 
 (1) The waste disposal facilities shall be closed under these rules in conjunction with the reclamation requirements of DOGAMI (Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries). 

 (2) An updated closure plan and post-closure monitoring and maintenance plan shall be submitted to the Department by the permittee at least 180 days prior to beginning closure operations or making any substantial changes to the operation. The closure plan must be compatible with DOGAMI’s reclamation plan and may be part of it. 

 (3) Chemical conveyances (ditches, troughs, pipes, etc.) not necessary for post-closure monitoring shall be removed. The secondary containment systems shall be checked before closure for process-chemical contamination, and contaminated soil or other materials, if any, shall be removed to an acceptable disposal facility. 

 (4) Closure of the heap-leach facility: 

 (a) The heap shall be detoxified over a suitable period of time prior to closure, using rinse/rest cycles of rinsing and chemical oxidation, if necessary. The WAD cyanide concentration in the rinsate shall be no greater than 0.2 ppm; 

 (b) Following detoxification as defined in subsection (a) of this section, the heap shall be closed in place on the pad by covering the heap with a cover designed to prevent water and air infiltration. The cover should consist, at a minimum, of a low-permeability layer and suitable drainage and soil layers to prevent erosion and damage by animals and to sustain vegetation growth, in accordance with DOGAMI’s reclamation rules; 

 (c) The ponds associated with the heap shall be closed by folding in the synthetic liners and filling and contouring the pits with inert material. Residual sludge may be disposed of in one of the on-site waste disposal facilities, provided it meets the criteria for such wastes in these guidelines. The process chemical collection system of the heap shall be maintained in operative condition so that it can be used to monitor the amount and quality of infiltrated water, if any, draining from the heap. 

 (5) The tailings disposal facility shall be closed by covering with a composite cover designed to prevent water and air infiltration and be environmentally stable for an indefinite period of time. Maximum effort shall be made to isolate the tailings from the environment. Construction of the cover shall generally follow the principles and practices contained in EPA/530-SW-89-047. Technical Guidance Document — Final Covers on Hazardous Waste Landfills and Surface Impoundments. 

 [NOTE: View a PDF of EPA Guidance Document by clicking on "Tables" link below.] 

   

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.020 & 517.770 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 23-1992, f. & cert. ef. 9-8-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
