



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 13 AIRPORT PLANNING 
 660-013-0040 
 Aviation Facility Planning Requirements 
 
 A local government shall adopt comprehensive plan and land use regulation requirements for each state or local aviation facility subject to the requirements of ORS 836.610(1). Planning requirements for airports identified in ORS 836.610(1) shall include:  (1) A map, adopted by the local government, showing the location of the airport boundary. The airport boundary shall include the following areas, but does not necessarily include all land within the airport ownership:  (a) Existing and planned runways, taxiways, aircraft storage (excluding aircraft storage accessory to residential airpark type development), maintenance, sales, and repair facilities;  (b) Areas needed for existing and planned airport operations; and  (c) Areas at non-towered airports needed for existing and planned airport uses that:  (A) Require a location on or adjacent to the airport property;  (B) Are compatible with existing and planned land uses surrounding the airport; and  (C) Are otherwise consistent with provisions of the acknowledged comprehensive plan, land use regulations, and any applicable statewide planning goals.  (d) “Compatible,” as used in this rule, is not intended as an absolute term meaning no interference or adverse impacts of any type with surrounding land uses.  (2) A map or description of the location of existing and planned runways, taxiways, aprons, tiedown areas, and navigational aids;  (3) A map or description of the general location of existing and planned buildings and facilities;  (4) A projection of aeronautical facility and service needs;  (5) Provisions for airport uses not currently located at the airport or expansion of existing airport uses:  (a) Based on the projected needs for such uses over the planning period;  (b) Based on economic and use forecasts supported by market data;  (c) When such uses can be supported by adequate types and levels of public facilities and services and transportation facilities or systems authorized by applicable statewide planning goals;  (d) When such uses can be sited in a manner that does not create a hazard for aircraft operations; and  (e) When the uses can be sited in a manner that is:  (A) Compatible with existing and planned land uses surrounding the airport; and  (B) Consistent with applicable provisions of the acknowledged comprehensive plan, land use regulations, and any applicable statewide planning goals.  (6) When compatibility issues arise, the decision maker shall take reasonable steps to eliminate or minimize the incompatibility through location, design, or conditions. A decision on compatibility pursuant to this rule shall further the policy in ORS 836.600.  (7) A description of the types and levels of public facilities and services necessary to support development located at or planned for the airport including transportation facilities and services. Provision of public facilities and services and transportation facilities or systems shall be consistent with applicable state and local planning requirements.  (8) Maps delineating the location of safety zones, compatibility zones, and existing noise impact boundaries that are identified pursuant to OAR 340, division 35.  (9) Local government shall request the airport sponsor to provide the economic and use forecast information required by this rule. The economic and use forecast information submitted by the sponsor shall be subject to local government review, modification and approval as part of the planning process outlined in this rule. Where the sponsor declines to provide such information, the local government may limit the airport boundary to areas currently devoted to airport uses described in OAR 660-013-0100. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 836.600 - 836.630 & 1997 OL & ch. 859 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 3-1999, f. & cert. ef. 2-12-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 6-1996, f. & cert. ef. 12-23-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
