



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-1940 
 Farm Field Equipment 
 
 (1) Application. Rule 437-004-1940 applies to all farm field equipment except that the parts below do not apply to equipment manufactured before October 25, 1976:  (a) 1940(4);  (b) 1940(5);  (c) 1940(6)(b)(A).  (2) Definition. Farm field equipment — Tractors or implements, including self-propelled implements, or any combination.  (3) Power take-off guarding.  (a) Guard all power take-off shafts with a master shield or by other protective guarding.  (b) Tractors must have a master shield or guard strong enough to support the operator if they get on or off the tractor using the shield as a step.  (c) Guard equipment driven by a power take-off to protect against employee contact with rotating parts of the power drive system. Where power take-off driven equipment requires removal of the tractor master shield, ensure the equipment includes protection from that portion of the tractor power take-off shaft that protrudes from the tractor.  (d) There must be signs on tractors and power take-off driven equipment to remind operators to keep safety shields in place.  (4) Other power transmission components.  (a) Guard the mesh or nip points of all power driven gears, belts, chains, sheaves, pulleys, sprockets, and idlers by protective shield, location, guardrail or fence.  (b) Guard all revolving shafts, including projections such as bolts, keys, or set screws, by protective shield, location, or guardrail or fence.  (c) Exceptions to the guarding requirements are as follows:  (A) Smooth off shafts and shaft ends (without any projecting bolts, keys, or set screws), revolving at less than 10 rpm, on feed handling equipment used on the top surface of materials in bulk storage facilities; and  (B) Smooth off shaft ends protruding less than one-half the outside diameter of the shaft and its locking means.  (5) Functional components. Guard as much as possible, all moving parts that must be exposed to operate. Ensure the guard does not interfere with the normal operation of the equipment. Examples of these components are snapping or husking rolls, straw spreaders and choppers, cutterbars, flail rotors, rotary beaters, mixing augers, feed rolls, conveying augers, rotary tillers, and similar units.  (6) Access to moving parts.  (a) Ensure that guards, shields, and access doors are in place when equipment is running.  (b) Where removal of a guard or access door will expose an employee to any component that continues to rotate after the power is disengaged, provide the following:  (A) A readily visible or audible warning of rotation; and  (B) A safety sign warning the employee to:  (i) Look and listen for evidence of rotation; and  (ii) Not remove the guard or access door until all components stop.  (7) Electrical disconnect means.  (a) Prevent application of electrical power from a location not under the immediate and exclusive control of the employee or employees maintaining or servicing equipment by:  (A) Providing an exclusive, positive locking means on the main or ignition switch which can be operated only by the employee or employees performing the maintenance and servicing; or  (B) In the case of material handling equipment in a bulk storage structure, by physically locating on the equipment an electrical or mechanical means to disconnect the power.  (b) Ensure all circuit protection devices, including those that are an integral part of a motor, are of the manual reset type.  (c) Exceptions to (b) above are where:  (A) The employer can establish that because of the nature of the operation, distances involved and the amount of time normally spent by employees in the area of the affected equipment, use of the manual reset device would be infeasible;  (B) There is an electrical disconnect switch available to the employee within 15 feet of the equipment being maintained or serviced; and  (C) There is a sign near each hazardous part warning the employee that unless they use the electrical disconnect switch, the motor could automatically reset while the employee is working on the hazardous component.  (8) Additional requirements.  (a) Use a clutch or other effective means for stopping powered machines not driven by an individual motor.  (b) Ensure sufficient clearance for all friction clutches and keep them adjusted to prevent any drag or creeping when disengaged. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
