



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 255 AMBULANCE VEHICLE LICENSING 
 333-255-0120 
 Informal Enforcement 
 
 (1) If during an investigation or survey Oregon Health Authority (Authority) staff document violations of these rules; OAR chapter 333, division 250; ORS chapter 682; or ORS 820.300 through 820.380, the Authority may issue a statement of deficiencies that cites the law or rule alleged to have been violated and the facts supporting the allegation. The Authority shall share the statement of deficiencies with the ambulance service administrator or designee, the applicable emergency medical services (EMS) medical director, the county governing body, and the county ambulance service plan administrator. 

 (2) Upon receipt of a statement of deficiencies, an ambulance service shall be provided an opportunity to dispute the Authority’s findings but must still comply with sections (3) and (4) of this rule. 

 (a) If an ambulance service desires an informal conference to dispute the Authority’s findings, the ambulance service shall advise the Authority in writing within three business days after receipt of the statement of deficiencies. The written request must include a detailed explanation of why the agency believes the statement of deficiencies is incorrect. 

 (b) An ambulance service may not seek a delay of any enforcement action against it on the grounds the informal dispute resolution has not been completed. 

 (c) If an ambulance service is successful in demonstrating the deficiencies should not have been cited, the Authority shall reissue the statement of deficiencies, removing such deficiencies and rescinding or modifying any remedies issued for such deficiencies. The reissued statement of deficiencies shall state that it supersedes the previous statement of deficiencies and shall clearly identify the date of the superseded statement of deficiencies. 

 (3) Depending on the nature and severity of the deficiency, a signed corrective action plan must be mailed to the Authority within a minimum of 24 hours or maximum of 30 business days, as specified by the Authority, from the date the statement of deficiencies was received by the ambulance service. A signed corrective action plan will not be used by the Authority as an admission of the violations alleged in the statement of deficiencies. 

 (4) An ambulance service shall correct all deficiencies by the date identified by the Authority, unless an extension of time is requested from the licensed ambulance service. A request for such an extension shall be submitted in writing and must accompany the corrective action plan. 

 (5) The Authority shall determine if a written corrective action plan is acceptable. If the corrective action plan is not acceptable to the Authority, the Authority shall notify the ambulance service licensee and ambulance service administrator in writing: 

 (a) Identifying which provisions in the plan the Authority finds unacceptable; 

 (b) Citing the reasons the Authority finds the provisions unacceptable; and 

 (c) Requesting that the corrective action plan be modified and resubmitted no later than 14 business days from the date notification of non-compliance was received by the ambulance service licensee or ambulance service administrator. 

 (6) Failure to respond to the Authority or if the ambulance service does not come into compliance by the date specified by the Authority, the Authority may propose to deny, suspend, or revoke an ambulance vehicle license or impose civil penalties. 

 (7) The Authority shall confirm by survey or other appropriate means that all deficiencies have been corrected. 

 (a) A subsequent on-site survey must be conducted and passed on the same day as the initial survey if the ambulance vehicle is to remain available for operation. 

 (b) If the subsequent on-site survey reveals that all violations have not been corrected and the violations constitute an immediate danger or threat to the public, the Authority may immediately suspend the ambulance license in accordance with OAR 333-255-0125. The suspension shall remain in force until all violations have been corrected. 

 (c) A second or subsequent on-site survey may result in the levy of a civil penalty. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 682.017 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 682.017 - 682.117 & 682.991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 19-2025, amend filed 09/24/2025, effective 01/01/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 230-2018, adopt filed 06/13/2018, effective 06/15/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
