



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 INSURANCE POLICIES 
 836-052-0151 
 Filing and Approval of Policies and Certificates and Premium Rates 
 
 (1) An issuer shall not deliver or issue for delivery a policy or certificate to a resident of this state unless the policy form or certificate form has been filed with and approved by the Director in accordance with filing requirements and procedures prescribed by the Director.  (2) An issuer shall file any riders or amendments to policy or certificate forms to delete outpatient prescription drug benefits as required by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 only with the Insurance Commissioner in the state in which the policy or certificate was issued.  (3)(a) An issuer shall not use or change premium rates for a Medicare supplement policy or certificate unless the rates, rating schedule and supporting documentation have been filed with and approved by the Director in accordance with filing requirements and procedures prescribed by the Director.  (b) Except for an adjustment of premium on the basis of attained age under OAR 836-052-0138, an issuer may not increase the rates for a Medicare supplement policy or certificate issued in this state more than once in a 12-month period. Annual rate increases shall be effective on the policy or certificate anniversary date or renewal date. If an issuer intends to exercise the right to adjust a premium for age attainment under OAR 836-052-0138, and such adjustment results in more than one increase in a 12-month period, the issuer must provide written disclosure to the consumer prior to the issuance of the policy or certificate. The limitation on premium adjustments under this subsection does not apply to a premium adjustment that results from a change in the policy or premium payment terms requested by an insured including but not limited to changes in the method of payment such as discontinuing payment by a preauthorized electronic funds transfer.  (4) Except as provided in this section, an issuer shall not file for approval more than one form of a policy or certificate of each type for each standard Medicare supplement benefit plan. For the purposes of this section, a "type" means an individual policy or a group policy. An issuer may offer, with the approval of the Director, not more than four additional policy forms or certificate forms of the same type for the same standard Medicare supplement benefit plan, one for each of the following cases:  (a) The inclusion of new or innovative benefits;  (b) The addition of either direct response or agent marketing methods;  (c) The addition of either guaranteed issue or underwritten coverage.  (5) The following applies to continuance and discontinuance of Medicare supplement policies and certificates:  (a) Except as provided in this subsection, an issuer shall continue to make available for purchase any policy form or certificate form issued after July 1, 1992, that has been approved by the Director. A policy form or certificate form shall not be considered to be available for purchase unless the issuer has actively offered it for sale in the previous twelve months. The following applies to discontinuance of a policy form or certificate form to which this subsection applies:  (A) An issuer may discontinue the availability of a policy form or certificate form for new issues if the issuer provides to the Director in writing its decision at least 30 days prior to discontinuing the availability of the form of the policy or certificate. After receipt of the notice by the Director, the issuer shall no longer offer for sale the policy form or certificate form in this state. The issuer must continue to renew outstanding policies and certificates;  (B) An issuer that discontinues the availability of a policy form or certificate form pursuant to paragraph (A) of this subsection shall not file for approval a new policy form or certificate form of the same type for the same standard Medicare supplement benefit plan as the discontinued form for a period of five years after the issuer provides notice to the Director of the discontinuance. The period of discontinuance may be reduced if the Director determines that a shorter period is appropriate.  (b) The sale or other transfer of Medicare supplement business to another issuer shall be considered a discontinuance for the purposes of this subsection;  (c) A change in the rating structure or methodology shall be considered a discontinuance under subsection (a) of this section unless the issuer complies with the following requirements:  (A) The issuer provides an actuarial memorandum satisfactory to the Director, in a form and manner prescribed by the Director, describing the manner in which the revised rating methodology and resultant rates differ from the existing rating methodology and existing rates;  (B) The issuer does not subsequently put into effect a change of rates or rating factors that would cause the percentage differential between the discontinued and subsequent rates as described in the actuarial memorandum to change. The Director may approve a change to the differential that is in the public interest.  (6) Except as provided in this section, the experience of all policy forms or certificate forms of the same type in a standard Medicare supplement benefit plan shall be combined for purposes of the refund or credit calculation prescribed in OAR 836-052-0145. Forms assumed under an assumption reinsurance agreement shall not be combined with the experience of other forms for purposes of the refund or credit calculation. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 743.683 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 743.010, 743.684(1)–(2) & 743.683(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 15-2011, f. & cert. ef. 10-31-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 7-2011, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-2005, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 2-1995, f. & cert. ef. 4-26-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 9-1993, f. 9-28-93, cert. ef. 10-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 5-1993(Temp), f. 8-11-93, cert. ef. 9-1-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 7-1992, f. & cert. ef. 5-8-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
