



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 Media Relations 
 416-060-0005 
 Purpose and Policy
 
 
 (1) Purpose 
These rules govern general media relations for the Oregon Youth Authority (OYA) including responding to information requests and granting access by Media Representatives to OYA Facilities, Substitute Care Placements staff, and Youth in Custody. 
(2) Policy 
(a) OYA acknowledges the public’s interest in and concern with OYA’s mission to protect the public, reduce crime, hold Youth in Custody accountable and provide opportunities for reformation in safe environments. 
(b) In recognition of the news media’s role in reporting matters of public interest, OYA will work with Media Representatives to provide requested information within OYA’s resource limitations and requirements for safety, security and confidentiality; and it is the policy of OYA to permit and assist with access by Media Representatives to OYA Facilities, programs, Youth in Custody and staff for the purposes of supporting OYA’s mission and goals within the limitations required to ensure Facility security, safety and Youth in Custody’s reformation. 
(c) Interviews with Youth in Custody may be permitted with their consent and the approval of the appropriate Superintendent/Camp Director or Field Supervisor or designee. When authorized, an interview with a Youth in Custody is permitted neither as a matter of right nor as a privilege of the Youth in Custody or the Accredited News Media Organization. Instead, an interview may be approved if the appropriate Superintendent, Camp Director, Field Supervisor, or designee and the OYA Communications Office determine it is consistent with OYA’s mission and goals and the safe, secure and orderly management and operation of the Facility or program, and is not inconsistent with the Youth in Custody’s treatment, education, reformation and rehabilitation. 
(d) There are inherent risks associated with entering an OYA Facility. Consequently, Media Representatives enter OYA Facilities at their own risk, and are required to comply with all security and control measures of the Facility and with the directions of OYA staff. 
(e) OYA may initiate contact and provide access to Media Representatives to report on activities that further OYA’s mission and goals. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420A.010 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 5-2022, amend filed 09/06/2022, effective 09/06/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 5-2010, f. 10-14-10, cert. ef. 10-25-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
