



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Oregon Invasive Species Council - Chapter 609 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 OREGON INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL ACCOUNT 
 609-010-0140 
 Process for Declaration and Release of Funds 
 
 (1) Council members will review the request to declare an Invasive Species Emergency.  (2) During the review process, the Council may consider technical and other information obtained from sources other than the applicant, including, but not limited to, the Governor’s Natural Resources Cabinet.  (3) If the Council declares an Invasive Species Emergency, the Council may enter an agreement with a person, state or local government, unit of state or local government, Indian tribe, or federal government that will be responsible for implementing a portion or all of the response plan. The agreement must include all terms required by law and include provisions for the following:  (a) Incorporation of the response plan.  (b) The maximum amount of Funds to be disbursed.  (c) Disbursement of the Funds according to a payment schedule that is incorporated as an integral part of the agreement.  (d) The recipient of Funds shall submit one or more interim reports for evaluation by the Council. The recipient of Funds shall submit the reports either on a schedule that is incorporated into the agreement or upon the request of the Council. Each report must include:  (A) Documentation of project results to date;  (B) Projections of short-range and long-range results;  (C) Any modifications to the response plan;  (D) Budget status; and  (E) An update on the likelihood of successful eradication.  (e) In the event an interim report is deemed unsatisfactory by the Council, the Council reserves the right to cancel the agreement and stop payments.  (f) Within six months of the official close of the action items designated in the agreement, the Fund recipient shall submit a final report to the Council. This report will provide the most current and detailed information on project benefits as compared with the original criteria.  (g) In the event that a Fund recipient cannot complete any project within the agreement timelines, the Fund recipient shall inform the Council and request a formal extension for use of the Funds.  (h) The Fund recipient shall return all unexpended Funds to the Council for deposit in the Invasive Species Control Account. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 570.800 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 570.800 & 570.810 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OISC 1-2010, f. & cert. ef. 5-28-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
