



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-0268 
 Resident Trout and Whitefish 
 
 The following policies apply to resident trout and whitefish in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (1) Cutthroat and Rainbow Trout:  (a) The following policies apply to cutthroat and rainbow trout in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) The population of cutthroat trout in the McKenzie River below Leaburg Dam shall be managed under the alternatives of the Trout Plan as:  (i) Featured Species and Waters in the mainstem below Hayden Bridge; and  (ii) Wild in all other areas.  (B) All other cutthroat trout populations shall be managed under the Wild Fish alternative of the Trout Plan;  (C) The population of rainbow trout in the McKenzie River below Trail Bridge and Cougar Dams shall be managed under the alternatives of the Trout Plan as:  (i) Featured Species and Waters in the mainstem McKenzie from the mouth to Forest Glen boat ramp near Blue River; and  (ii) Basic Yield in Blue River below Blue River Dam; and  (iii) Wild in all other areas.  (D) The population of rainbow trout in Blue River above Blue River Reservoir shall be managed under the alternatives of the Trout Plan as:  (i) Basic Yield from Blue River Reservoir up to Quentin Creek; and  (ii) Wild in all other areas.  (E) All other rainbow trout populations shall be managed under the Wild Fish alternative of the Trout Plan;  (F) Hatchery produced cutthroat trout shall not be stocked in streams in the McKenzie River Basin;  (G) Only legal-size, hatchery produced rainbow trout may be stocked in the Mainstem McKenzie River from the Hayden Bridge to McKenzie Bridge and in Blue River up to Quentin Creek. Hatchery produced rainbow trout shall not be stocked in any other streams in the McKenzie River Basin.  (b) The following objectives apply to cutthroat and rainbow trout in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) Maintain the genetic diversity and distribution, and maintain or increase the abundance of wild cutthroat trout and wild rainbow trout;  (B) Provide diverse opportunities to angle for cutthroat and rainbow trout.  (2) Bull Trout:  (a) The following policy applies to bull trout in the McKenzie River subbasin: All populations of bull trout in the McKenzie Basin shall be managed under the Wild Fish alternative of Oregon’s Trout Plan.  (b) The following objectives apply to bull trout in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) Increase the abundance and distribution of bull trout;  (B) Maintain genetic diversity of bull trout in the McKenzie Basin.  (3) Brook Trout:  (a) The following policies apply to brook trout in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) All populations of brook trout in the McKenzie Basin shall be managed under the Basic Yield alternative of Oregon’s Trout Plan;  (B) Hatchery produced brook trout shall not be stocked in the McKenzie River or its tributaries.  (b) The following objectives apply to brook trout in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) Confine brook trout in the McKenzie Basin to their current distribution;  (B) Provide opportunities to angle for brook trout.  (4) Whitefish:  (a) The following policy applies to whitefish in the McKenzie River subbasin: All populations of whitefish in the McKenzie Basin shall be managed under the Wild Fish alternative of Oregon’s Trout Plan.  (b) The following objectives apply to whitefish in the McKenzie River subbasin:  (A) Maintain the genetic diversity, distribution and abundance of whitefish in the McKenzie Basin;  (B) Provide opportunities to angle for whitefish. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 506.109 & 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 29-1997, f. 5-2-97, cert. ef. 5-9-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 4-1988, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
