



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 600 WATER CONSERVATION, REUSE AND STORAGE GRANT PROGRAM 
 690-600-0040 
 Grant Agreement and Conditions 
 
 (1) The Director or designee will establish grant agreement conditions for each grant. Grantees shall comply with all grant agreement conditions.  (2) The Department will only enter into new agreements or amendments to existing agreements with prior grantees of the Program if all reporting obligations under existing or earlier grant agreements have been met.  (3) The grantee must:  (a) Submit a quarterly report to the Department on a form provided by the Department that provides information regarding the expenditure of program and non-program funds, progress toward completion of the project planning study, compliance with special conditions and requirements in the Grant Agreement and any other information the Department deems appropriate.  (b) Comply with all federal, state and local laws and ordinances applicable to the work to be done under the grant agreement.  (c) Account for funds distributed by the Department, using project planning study expense forms provided by the Department.  (d) Obtain all permits and licenses from local, state or federal agencies or governing bodies necessary to fulfill the grant agreement and provide a copy to the Department.  (4) It is not the intent of the program to finance equipment purchases. Any equipment purchase authorized by the Department may be subject to additional conditions to be included in the grant agreement.  (5) Upon notice by the Department to the grantee in writing, the Director may terminate funding for project planning studies not complying with the grant agreement conditions. The money allocated to the project planning study but not used will be available for reallocation by the Department.  (6) The Grant Agreement will contain a condition that all project planning study reports that the Department determines to be final and complete will be made available to the public. The Department may place additional conditions in the Grant Agreement as necessary to carry out the purpose of the project planning study. Such conditions may include but are not limited to:  (a) Special reporting requirements that it deems appropriate.  (b) A commitment to supply future reports on the project planning study as required; and  (c) A commitment to provide a report of any future actions taken as a result of the project planning study. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2008 OL Ch. 13 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 1-2008, f. 6-4-08, cert. ef. 6-6-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
