



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-0710 
 Compressed Gases 
 
 (1) Employers are responsible to keep compressed gas cylinders under their control in a safe condition by doing visual inspections that cover these points:  (a) Corrosion or pitting which reduces the wall thickness.  (b) Cuts, gouges or digs.  (c) Dents, bulges or other distortion or unsymmetrical condition or appearance.  (d) Distortion, looseness or failure of welds in the cylinder rings.  (e) Evidence of having been burned or exposed to fire, arc or torch burns.  (f) Damage to cylinder neck threads or inability to obtain a gas-tight seal by reasonable methods.  (2) If a compressed gas cylinder or tank shows any of the above conditions, or any other condition that could affect its safety, do not use it. Do not return it to service until it is thoroughly inspected by a person qualified to do so and they find it to be safe and in compliance with the Compressed Gas Association directives.  (3) The handling, storage, and use of all compressed gases in cylinders, portable tanks or motor vehicle cargo tanks must comply with the following:  (a) Do not use cylinders without a legible label identifying the contents.  (b) Keep the cylinder caps on except when the gauges are on the cylinder.  (c) Do not use cylinders for rollers, supports or for any purpose other than to contain the product.  (d) Do not place cylinders where they may become part of an electrical circuit. Do not ground cylinders used in conjunction with electric welding.  (e) Do not subject cylinders to temperatures above 125°F. If ice or snow accumulates on a cylinder, thaw at room temperature or with water less than 125°F.  (f) Contact your gas supplier when in doubt about proper handling of the cylinder.  (g) When returning empty cylinders, close the valve and replace the valve protection cap.  (h) Do not drag or slide cylinders.  (i) Do not drop or permit cylinders to strike against each other or other surfaces violently.  (j) Do not lift cylinders by the protective cap or with magnets.  (k) Do not suspend cylinders from ropes, chains or slings unless the cylinder was manufactured with an appropriate lifting attachment or suitable cradles or platforms are used.  (l) Post the storage areas with the name of the gases to be stored.  (m) Store cylinders away from ignitable substances such as gasoline or waste or combustibles in bulk including oil.  (n) Store cylinders upright and secure to prevent them from being knocked over.  (o) Secure cylinders when in use.  (4) Compressed gas cylinders, portable tanks, and cargo tanks must have pressure relief devices. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
