



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 BEACH CONSTRUCTION/ALTERATION STANDARDS 
 736-020-0004 
 Fees 
 
 (1) Fees — each application filed under ORS 390.640, for an alteration on the ocean shore shall be accompanied by a processing fee for the purpose of partial recovery to the department of its administrative costs. The fee shall be determined according to the construction value of the project. The application processing fee shall be:  (a) $400 for projects with a construction value less than $2,500; and  (b) $400 plus three percent of the construction value over $2,500 for projects with a construction value equal to or greater than $2,500.  (2) In determining the construction value of a proposed project, the Department:  (a) May consider the entire project, not just that portion on the ocean shore. Examples of, but not the only, projects where the entire alteration may be considered in establishing construction value include, ocean shore protective structures such as riprap revetments, concrete seawalls, and other hard structures of wood, metal, rock or concrete; dynamic revetments, log, cobble and sand berms and other non-structural forms of ocean shore protection;  (b) May, in its discretion, consider only that portion of a project on the ocean shore. Examples of, but not the only, projects where only that portion of the alteration on the ocean shore may be considered in establishing construction value include, stairways, ramps and other access and viewing facilities, sand removal, beach nourishment, dune grading and vegetation management;  (c) May assess only the base fee to public agencies proposing projects whose primary purpose is to improve public access to the ocean shore, or maintain, repair or replace existing public infrastructure on the ocean shore regardless of construction value;  (d) May waive the application fee for public agency applications proposing projects that would have the primary purpose of enhancing the natural, resource, scenic, recreational and economic values of the ocean shore, or restoring native beach or dune habitat, contributing to the recovery of sensitive species, including state and federally listed threatened and endangered species or otherwise benefitting the native biological values of the ocean shore.  (3) Evidence the Department may consider in establishing the construction value of a project shall include:  (a) Itemized estimates from licensed, bonded, contractors;  (b) Construction values accepted by the county or city for purposes of issuing local permits;  (c) Itemized costs of equipment rental and other such charges if the project is completed by the property owner;  (d) Estimates that reflect unit costs typically associated with the type, quality and standards of construction proposed in the application; and  (e) Other evidence of costs acceptable to the Department if (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section are not available.  (4) The Department may require an applicant to provide additional information, supporting evidence or seek additional independent bids for a project if the Department believes the project costs represented by the applicant are not reflective of costs typically associated with the type, quality and standards of construction proposed in the application.  (5) Refunds — if a written request is received to withdraw an application, application fees may be refunded according to the following schedule:  (a) If the application is withdrawn within the first three working days following the date of submittal, the entire application fee shall be refunded;  (b) If the application is withdrawn prior to the close of the 30-day notice posting period described in ORS 390.650(3), one-half of the amount in excess of the $400 basic application fee shall be refunded;  (c) No refund shall be made for an application withdrawn more than 30 days after the date of submittal.  (6) No fee reductions shall be allowed for modifications to an application, made after an application is submitted to the Department, that result in a reduced construction value.  (7) The Department may assess such additional fees as it determines necessary to cover increased construction value resulting from modifications to a proposed project made after the application is submitted to the Department. In assessing such additional fees, the Department shall be governed by the provisions of sections (1) through (4) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.605 - 390.770 & 390.990 - 390.995 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 7-2000, f. & cert. ef. 5-10-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
