



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 GROUNDWATER QUALITY PROTECTION 
 340-040-0040 
 Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study 
 
 (1) If, based upon the preliminary assessment or other information, the Director determines there is a substantial likelihood that remedial action will be necessary to maintain or restore groundwater quality to achieve a specified concentration limit, or to protect public health, safety, or welfare or the environment, the Director shall require a remedial investigation and/or feasibility study be performed to develop information to determine the need for and selection of a remedial action.  (2) The Department shall develop and maintain a list of all facilities currently developing remedial investigations and feasibility studies, and shall make such a list available to the public on request.  (3) The remedial investigation shall include but is not limited to characterization of pollution, characterization of the facility, and an endangerment assessment. In presenting the required information, a clear description of the data used as well as any data gaps encountered in the analysis shall be included:  (a) The characterization of the pollution as appropriate shall include but is not limited to information regarding:  (A) Extent to which the source can be adequately identified and characterized;  (B) Amount, form, concentration, toxicity, environmental fate and transport, and other significant characterization of present substances; and  (C) Extent to which the substances might be reused or recycled.  (b) The characterization of the facility as appropriate shall include but is not limited to information regarding:  (A) Contaminant substance mixtures present, media of occurrence, and interface zones between media;  (B) Hydrogeologic factors;  (C) Climatologic and meteorologic factors; and  (D) Type, location, and description of facilities, or activities that could have resulted in the pollution.  (c) The endangerment assessment as appropriate shall include but is not limited to information regarding:  (A) Potential routes of exposure and concentration;  (B) Characterization of toxic effects;  (C) Populations at risk;  (D) Potential or actual adverse impact on:  (i) Biological receptors;  (ii) Present and future uses of the groundwater;  (iii) Ecosystems and natural resources; and  (iv) Aesthetic characteristics of the environment.  (E) Extent to which substances have migrated or are expected to migrate and the threat such migration might pose to public health, safety and welfare or the environment; and  (F) Potential for release of any substances or treatment residuals that might remain after remedial action.  (4) The feasibility study shall include but is not limited to the development and evaluation of remedial action options:  (a) The development of remedial action options as appropriate shall include but is not limited to the following range of options:  (A) Remedial action attaining the specified concentration limit;  (B) Highest and best technology attaining the lowest concentration levels technically achievable if paragraph (4)(a)(A) of this rule is not technically achievable;  (C) Best practicable technology attaining the lowest concentration level that meets the requirements of OAR 340-040-0050(1)(b) and (2), and does not exceed a site-specific concentration level considered protective of public health, safety, and welfare and the environment;  (D) Other measures to supplement or substitute for cleanup technologies, including but not limited to engineering or institutional controls (e.g., environmental hazard notice, alternative drinking water supply, caps, security measures, etc.);  (E) Combinations of any of the above options; and  (F) No action option.  (b)(A) Remedial action options developed under subsection (4)(a) of this rule shall be evaluated under the requirements, criteria, preferences, and factors set forth in OAR 340-040-0050 and according to any other criteria determined by the Director to be relevant to selection of a remedial action under OAR 340-040-0050;  (B) The evaluation of remedial action options developed under subsection (4)(a) of this rule shall include an evaluation of the extent to which the option or combination of options complies with relevant state, local, and federal law, standards, and guidance. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468 & 468B 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468.035 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 27-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-27-89, Renumbered from 340-041-0029 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-1984, f. & ef. 7-13-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 24-1981, f. & ef. 9-8-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
