



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 LAND ACQUISITION AND EXCHANGE 
 736-019-0060 
 Criteria for Acquisition 
 
 (1) The Department will:  (a) Establish and maintain a list of properties and areas of interest. The Department may acquire properties on that list as they become available, subject to approval and the availability of funds.  (b) Consider park master plans adopted pursuant to ORS 195.120, the State Trails Plan, the Willamette Greenway Plan or other plans adopted by the Commission that identify certain land acquisitions as desired and needed.  (c) Acquire properties as specifically directed by Acts of the Oregon Legislature.  (d) Acquire other properties that contribute to the established goals of the Department but were not previously included on a list of properties of interest or identified in a Department plan.  (2) The purpose of the Department and the public's interests are served when an acquisition satisfies one or more of the following objectives:  (a) Protects areas of outstanding natural, scenic, cultural, historic and recreational significance for the enjoyment and education of present and future generations.  (b) Consolidates state park parcels, trail systems or greenways so that more efficient management and administration of the state park system is made possible.  (c) Provides a buffer to adjacent or nearby development that may diminish the recreation or conservation values of a state park parcel.  (d) Provides access to recreation areas for management or protection of state park parcels, and  (e) Addresses opportunities that may be lost to the Department if acquisition is delayed.  (3) The acquisition or exchange of all real property shall be consistent with the Department's purpose and its long-range planning goals, and shall be prioritized through a rating system. The rating system will evaluate an acquisition or exchange's significance as it relates to the Department's mission, development and operational costs, geographic distribution, diversity of values, public demand, and other factors connected to its feasibility as a state park. The Commission will periodically review the rating system.  (4) The Department will look favorably at opportunities for acquisitions and exchanges that enhance the overall management of existing park lands. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.121 & 390.124 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.112 & 390.121 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 3-2011, f. & cert. ef. 3-30-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 11-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-15-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
