



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 12 LIVESTOCK AUCTION MARKETS 
 603-012-0012 
 Animal Health Inspection — General Rules 
 
 (1) Inspection of animals at livestock auction markets is for the purpose of assuring that such animals will not knowingly be a source of infection to other animals in Oregon or other states to which they may be exported.  (2) The inspection of animals for the purpose of section (1) of this rule will be under the supervision of the livestock auction yard management.  (3)(a) The operator of the livestock auction yard shall employ a Deputy State Veterinarian for the inspection of livestock presented for sale; except  (b) If the auction yard operator is unable to obtain the services of the Deputy State Veterinarian and the Department after thorough investigation determines that the operator has tried in good faith to obtain such services, the Department may furnish a qualified person to make an initial inspection of livestock presented for sale. When the qualified person determines there is doubt of the health status of an animal, he will at once require the operator to obtain the services of a qualified veterinarian as required by ORS 599.335. The animal or animals determined by the qualified person to need veterinarian inspection will be placed in isolation pens and will remain there until disposition is determined by the veterinarian. The auction yard operator will be responsible for all costs incurred by the Department through use of the qualified person and the veterinarian.  (4) The auction yard operator or his employees shall notify the Deputy State Veterinarian of any sick, injured or dying animals (including “cancer-eye” cattle).  (5) The auction yard operator shall consult with the Deputy State Veterinarian when the Deputy State Veterinarian exercises his authority to deny access to the auction yard of sick, injured or dying animals.  (6) The auction yard operator or his employees will assist the Deputy State Veterinarian and Department Brand Inspectors in assuring that all animals originating in other states have complied with Oregon import regulations or with regulations imposed by the Code of Federal Regulations (9 CFR).  (7) Any authorized agent or employee of the Department may at any reasonable time enter any livestock auction yard and examine it or the livestock therein to determine compliance with applicable regulations of ORS Chapters 596, 603, 604, or 619.  (8) The responsibility for compliance with the laws relating to livestock auction markets and for the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to livestock disease, sanitation, inspection, and other regulations promulgated under the provisions of ORS Chapters 596, 599, and 604 is the responsibility of, and rests with the livestock auction market licensee. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 596 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 599.335 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 3-1984, f. & ef. 1-20-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 1-1981, f. & ef. 1-9-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
