



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Lottery 
 Chapter 177 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 85 POWERBALL 
 177-085-0070 
 Applicable Law 
 
 (1) General: In purchasing a Powerball® ticket issued by the Lottery, or attempting to claim a prize, purchasers and prize claimants agree to comply with and be bound by all applicable statutes, administrative rules, and procedures of the Lottery and MUSL, including all applicable provisions in the Powerball® Finance and Operations Procedures, and by all directives and determinations of the Lottery Director. A purchaser or prize claimant agrees, as the purchaser or prize claimant’s sole and exclusive remedy, that claims arising out of a Powerball® ticket issued by the Lottery can be pursued only against the Lottery and not any other Party Lottery or against MUSL. Litigation, if any, shall be maintained only within the State of Oregon. No claim shall be made against any other participating Lottery or against MUSL.  (2) Final Determinations: All decisions made by the Lottery Director, including the declaration of prizes and the payment thereof and the interpretation of the Powerball® game rules and procedures, are final and binding on all purchasers of tickets issued by the Lottery and on every person making a prize claim in respect thereof. Nothing in these rules shall be construed as a waiver of any defense or claim that the Lottery, any other participating lottery, or MUSL may have in any litigation, including in the event a purchaser or person making a claim pursues litigation against the Lottery Commission, the Lottery, any other participating lottery, or MUSL, or their respective officers, directors or employees.  (3) Unclaimed Prize: No prize shall be paid upon a ticket purchased, claimed, or sold in violation of the statutes, or rules, procedures, and decisions of the Lottery or MUSL’s Powerball® Group Rules effective as of October 19, 2016. Any such prize claimed but unpaid shall constitute an unclaimed prize under the statutes, rules, procedures, and decisions of the Lottery and shall be allocated to the benefit of the public purpose. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OR Const. Art. XV & Sec. 4(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 461 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOTT 8-2016, f. 9-30-16, cert. ef. 10-19-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
