



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 WILLAMETTE RIVER GREENWAY PLAN 
 660-020-0065 
 Amending Willamette Greenway Plan 
 
 The following procedure is established for amending segments of the Willamette River Greenway Plan:  (1) A request for a Willamette Greenway Plan modification from the plan that had previously been approved by LCDC shall be submitted by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (OPRD).  (2) If the plan change is initiated by a city or county the request shall be made by council or board action in writing to the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department requesting submission of the amendment to LCDC for adoption of an administrative rule amending the Greenway Plan. This request shall include the proposed plan change, and reasons why such a plan change is necessary. The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department shall, within 30 days submit the request with comments to LCDC.  (3) If the plan change is initiated by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, the request shall be made in writing to LCDC:  (a) Requesting that LCDC adopt by administrative rule certain changes to OPRD Greenway Plan;  (b) Explaining the proposed change to the plan;  (c) Explaining why the proposed change to the plan is necessary. The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department shall notify the affected city or county 30 days prior to the submission of the proposed plan change to LCDC. The affected city or county comments on the proposed change shall be forwarded with the request to LCDC.  (4) The LCDC shall provide public notice of the proposed plan amendment, including the time and place of a public hearing on the proposed plan amendment.  (5) The LCDC shall review and consider testimony regarding the proposed plan amendment, pursuant to the requirements of ORS Chapter 183.  (6) The LCDC may adopt by rule the plan amendment if the plan change is consistent with the intent and purposes of the Willamette River Greenway as stated in Goal 15 of the Statewide Planning Goals and ORS 390.310 to 390.368.  (7) The local jurisdiction shall adopt the Willamette Greenway Plan amendment by ordinance. Such ordinance shall not have an effective date which is prior to LCDC’s adoption of the plan amendment.  (8) A copy of the approved plan amendment shall be sent to the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, and the boundary change(s) shall be recorded on the OPRD and LCDC Greenway maps as well as the local Greenway map(s) in the appropriate County Recorder’s office. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197 & 390 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 3-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-7-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCD 5-1980, f. & ef. 7-2-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
