



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Forest Resources Institute 
 Chapter 628 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 ADMINISTRATION 
 628-010-0005 
 Definitions
 
 
 The following words and phrases, when used in this division, shall mean the following unless the context otherwise requires: 

 (1) “Actual and necessary” means that a travel or other expense: 

 (a) Is an actual expense incurred by a member in carrying out official duties; and 

 (b) The expense is necessary to enable the member to carry out official duties. 

 (2) “OFRI” means the Oregon Forest Resources Institute. 

 (3) “Board” means the Oregon Forest Resources Institute Board of Directors, inclusive of elected, appointed, and ex officiononvoting members. 

 (4) “Chairperson,” “Chairman” or “Chair” means the Chairperson of the OFRI Board of Directors. 

 (5) “Committee” means a subcommittee of the OFRI Board of Directors. 

 (6) “Employed in full-time public service” means employment by a public body as that term is defined in ORS 274.109. For example, the Dean of the College of Forestry at the Oregon State University is employed in full-time public service. 

 (7) “Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Oregon Forest Resources Institute. 

 (8) “Member” or “Board member” or “OFRI Board member” means any individual appointed by the State Forester to serve on the Board of the Oregon Forest Resources Institute. 

 (9) “Non-qualified member” means a Board member other than a Qualified member. 

 (10) “Other expenses” includes, but is not limited to, expenses incurred by a Board member of the Oregon Forest Resources Institute in employing a substitute to perform duties, including personal, normally performed by the Member which the Member is unable to perform because of the performance of official duties and which by the nature of such duties cannot be delayed without risk to health or safety. No Member shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in employing a substitute in excess of $20 per day. 

 (11) “Official duties” includes: 

 (a) Attendance at a Board meeting or subcommittee meeting; 

 (b) Substantial preparation for a Board meeting or Committee meeting; and 

 (c) Attendance at a conference or other activity as a representative of the Board, either at the request of the Chair or as authorized in advance by a vote of the Board. 

 (12) “Qualified member” means a member who is not in full-time public service and who had an adjusted gross income in the previous tax year: 

 (a) Of less than $50,000, as reported on an income tax return other than a joint income tax return; or 

 (b) Of less than $100,000, as reported on a joint income tax return. 

 (13) “Travel and other expenses” includes meals, overnight lodging, the cost of attending an event as a representative of the Board, and other miscellaneous travel expenses such as but not limited to postage, taxis/public transport/ground transport, airfare, parking fees, bridge tolls, telephone charges. “Travel and other expenses” does not include: 

 (a) Attendance at a sporting event, concert, theatrical or dance performance, or movie, including such events that occur at a trade show, festival, stock show, county fair, state fair, conference, or training; 

 (b) In-room movie rental; 

 (c) Telephone charges that are not associated with Board business; 

 (d) Use of a gym or health club; 

 (e) Cost of a gift for a host, business associate, family member, or Board member, employee, or contractor; or 

 (f) Alcoholic beverages. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 526.645 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 321.017 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OFRI 4-2025, amend filed 01/22/2025, effective 01/23/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FRI 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 3-9-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FRI 4-1992, f. & cert. ef. 6-15-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
