



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 157 FOOD SERVICE LICENSING, INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES 
 333-157-0030 
 Closure of Restaurants 
 
 (1) If the administrator closes a restaurant, a statement by the Authority ordering closure and specifying the reasons therefore, and signed by the administrator, shall be attached to the inspection form and delivered to the operator or person in charge:  (a) When a restaurant is closed, the administrator shall post the notice of closure at a customary entrance;  (b) No person except the administrator shall remove or alter this notice;  (c) No person shall operate a restaurant that has been closed.  (2) If a violation which creates an imminent or present danger to public health is not corrected immediately or an approved alternative procedure is not initiated immediately by the operator, the restaurant shall be closed.  (3) If a violation which creates a potential danger to public health has not been corrected within the designated time limit, the restaurant shall be closed.  (4) When a restaurant has been closed because a priority item or priority foundation item violation(s) has not been corrected, it may be reopened after 24 hours if:  (a) A recheck inspection by the administrator confirms that all priority item and priority foundation item violations have been corrected; and  (b) A closure dismissal order designated by the Authority is delivered to the operator or person in charge; and  (c) The closed sign previously posted is removed by the administrator;  (d) A restaurant may be reopened earlier than 24 hours following a voluntary meeting attended by the restaurant operator or person in charge, the administrator, and the inspecting environmental health specialist, at which the provisions of subsections (4)(a) through (c) of this rule are demonstrated to be met;  (e) A restaurant closed and reopened as described in this subsection shall be assigned a notice of restaurant sanitation based on the sanitation score of the unannounced complete inspection that identified the priority item and priority foundation item violations causing the closure.  (5) If a restaurant has obtained a sanitation score of less than 70 on two consecutive complete inspections conducted within 30 days as described in OAR 333-157-0000(5), it shall be closed.  (6) When a restaurant has been closed for failure to obtain a minimum acceptable sanitation score of 70 or more, it may be reopened after 24 hours if:  (a) The operator submits a written plan of correction, specifying the corrections to be made and time limits for their completion, which would achieve a sanitation score of 80 points by the next semi-annual inspection; and  (b) The plan of correction is approved by the administrator; and  (c) A complete inspection after the restaurant has been closed produces a sanitation score of 70 or more.  (d) A closure dismissal order designated by the Authority is delivered to the operator or person in charge; and  (e) The closed sign previously posted is removed by the administrator;  (f) A restaurant may be reopened earlier than 24 hours following a voluntary meeting attended by the restaurant operator or person in charge, the administrator, and the inspecting environmental health specialist, at which the provision of subsections (6)(a) through (e) of this rule are demonstrated to be met;  (g) A restaurant closed and reopened as described in this subsection shall be assigned a notice of restaurant sanitation based on the sanitation score of the complete inspection performed while the restaurant was closed.  (7) Appeals of closures are contested cases pursuant to ORS Chapter 183.  (8) Operators whose facilities have been closed for failure to obtain a minimum acceptable sanitation score of 70 or more, or for failure to correct repeat priority item or priority foundation item violations must agree in writing, as part of reopening the restaurant, to:  (a) Enroll in and successfully complete an approved food manager training course; or  (b) In the event that an extraordinary situation exists whereby an approved food manager training course is not available to the operator, the administrator shall make provision for an alternative type of food manager training using criteria approved by the Authority. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 624.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 624.100 – 624.130 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2012, f. 8-30-12, cert. ef. 9-4-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 14-2006, f. 6-27-06, cert. ef. 7-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 19-1994, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 20-1986, f. 12-22-86, ef. 2-2-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
