



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 DOMESTIC INSURERS; ORGANIZATION; CORPORATE PROCEDURES 
 836-027-0130 
 Information to Be Included in Statement Required by ORS 732.517 to 732.592 
 
 The statement to be filed with the Director pursuant to ORS 732.517 to 732.592 shall include the following information, to be set forth in Form A:  (1) If any acquiring party required to file a statement is an individual, the principal occupation of the person and all offices and positions held during the past five years, and any conviction of crimes other than minor traffic violations during the past 10 years; and  (2) If any acquiring party required to file a statement is not an individual, a report of the nature of its business operations during the past five years or for such lesser period as the acquiring party and any predecessors of the acquiring party have been in existence, an informative description of the business intended to be done by the acquiring party and its subsidiaries, and a list of all individuals who are or who have been selected to become directors or executive officers of the acquiring party or who perform or will perform functions appropriate to the positions. The list shall include for each individual the information required by section (1) of this rule.  (3) The number of shares of any security that each acquiring party required to file a statement proposes to acquire in connection with the acquisition, the terms of any proposed offer or agreement relating to the acquisition and a statement as to the method by which the fairness of the proposal was determined.  (4) The amount of each class of any security of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition that is beneficially owned or concerning which there is a right to acquire beneficial ownership by any acquiring party.  (5) A full description of any contracts, arrangements or understandings with respect to any security of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition in which any acquiring party required to file a statement is involved, including, without limitation, those involving transfer of any of the securities, joint ventures, loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guarantees of loans, guarantees against loss or guarantees of profits, division of losses or profits or the giving or withholding of proxies. The description shall identify the persons with whom the contracts, arrangements or understandings have been entered.  (6) A description of the purchase of any security of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition during the 12 calendar months preceding the filing of the statement, by any acquiring party required to file a statement, including the dates of purchase, names of the purchasers and consideration paid or agreed to be paid for the security.  (7) A description of any recommendation to purchase any security of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition made by any acquiring party required to file a statement, or by anyone based upon interviews or at the suggestion of any acquiring party required to file a statement, during the 12 calendar months preceding the filing of the statement.  (8) Copies of all tender offers for, requests or invitations for tenders of, exchange offers for and agreements to acquire or exchange any securities of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition and, if distributed, copies of additional soliciting material relating thereto.  (9) A description of the terms of any agreement, contract or understanding made with or proposed to be made with any broker-dealer as to solicitation for tender of securities of the type to be acquired in connection with the acquisition, including the amount of any fees, commissions or other compensation to be paid to any broker-dealer in connection with the agreement, contract or understanding. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 732.523 & 732.572 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 732.574 & 732.517 - 732.592 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 15-1996, f. & cert. ef. 11-12-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 8-1993, f. & cert. ef. 9-23-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
