



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 56 HAY AND SEED 
 603-056-0050 
 Seed Dealer License 
 
 
 (1) Both retail seed dealers and wholesale seed dealers must obtain a seed dealer license from the department prior to selling, offering for sale, or exposing for sale any agricultural, flower, or vegetable seed. 

 (2) Before the department issues any seed dealer license, a person shall submit a completed application and appropriate annual license fee. The application shall include the following: 

 (a) Names and titles of each person requesting the license. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, business entity, association, governmental subdivision, or public or private organization, the applicant shall also submit the names and titles of each partner, officer, agent, manager, and principle of that entity; 

 (b) Location(s) of the applicant, including a mailing address and registered agent; 

 (c) Phone numbers of the applicant; 

 (d) Electronic mail address of the applicant if available; 

 (e) Ownership structure of the applicant, e.g. proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, etc.; 

 (f) If an applicant or any of its associated officers, agents, or partners have had or have been found to have violated of the Federal Seed Act, the Oregon Seed Law, or any other state’s laws related to agricultural, flower, or vegetable seed  within the 36 months prior to the date of the application, or if the applicant or any of its associated officers, agents, or partners has received a penalty or penalties totaling $10,000 or more related to agricultural, flower, or vegetable seed dealings or has been placed on probation, had a license suspended, or had a license revoked for any licenses related to agricultural, flower, or vegetable seed dealings. 

 (3) The department shall furnish first time seed dealer licensees with copies of the Oregon Seed Law. All first time licensees shall read the documents provided. 

 (4) Department staff shall contact first time licensees during their initial annual licensing period in order to provide education to aid in complying with the Oregon Seed Law. 

 (5) ( a) The department may refuse to issue, reissue, or renew a person’s seed dealer license  when that person’s license has been suspended and the person is not yet eligible for reissuance, when the person’s license has been revoked, or when that person was an officer of another entity at the time when that entity committed action that resulted in its seed dealer license being suspended or revoked, or when a person who exercised substantial control over the seed industry activities of a seed dealer at the time of an event that resulted in the seed dealers license being suspended or revoked. 

 (b) The department must notify an applicant of its decision to refuse to issue, reissue, or renew a seed dealer license in writing as a contested case order that is consistent with ORS Chapter 183.430 and ORS 183.415 and shall serve its notice on the applicant and on any party to the previous action resulting in suspension of the seed dealer’s license. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 633 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 633.711 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 9-2020, amend filed 07/14/2020, effective 07/14/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 5-1996, f. & cert. ef. 6-7-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
