



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 PRIVATE SECTOR CONTRIBUTIONS  AND INVOLVEMENT 
 123-087-0020 
 Solicitation and Use of Private Support 
 
 (1) The Department may solicit, receive and use Private Sector Support in the following contexts:  (a) Special projects for public information, publicity or promotional activities related to economic and community enhancement in this state;  (b) Employees who are hired by the state government but whose compensation is entirely or partially attributable to donations received by the Department or by the state government on the Department’s behalf from one or more private entities;  (c) Personnel employed by the contributing entity who are loaned to the Department for performing certain purposes, and who receive no compensation from the Department except for reimbursement of expenses;  (d) Activities related to the expansion, retention or recruitment of businesses, employment or commerce in and for this state;  (e) Efforts to organize, educate or increase institutional or human capacity for and among persons engaged in local economic and community development;  (f) Free or discounted provision of or access to public speakers, expertise, printing, advertisement, transportation, accommodations and so forth; or  (g) Similar reasons and circumstances.  (2) Solicitation of Private Sector Support by the Department shall be approved by the Director.  (3) Contributors to the Department shall not receive any special benefit, service, consideration, publicity or information as a result of their contribution to the Department, other than, for example, satisfaction with the mutual outcomes accomplished as a result of collaboration with the Department.  (4) Any Private Sector Support received in the form of money shall be paid into and disbursed from an appropriate account or fund and its origins recorded.  (5) Private Sector Support shall be used only for the purposes for which it was contributed or returned to the contributor when appropriate.  (6) Private Sector Support involving loaned personnel, privately supported compensation of state employees or similar arrangements shall be:  (a) Used only for temporary, limited duration or specially dedicated roles or for unusual circumstances, and not to fill a regular, permanent position of the state government or to displace or replace any existing employee;  (b) Approved directly by the Director;  (c) Reported to appropriate state agencies, in addition to OAR 123-087-0040, within 30 days of the commencement of such a person’s work or service for the state, if the period of that work or service is expected to be at least that long;  (d) For no more than an overall period of two years and not repeated;  (e) Preceded by any affected person’s orientation with the Department, including but not limited to facilitation and instruction by the Department for the person to read and understand the laws and guidelines described in subsection (f) of this section; and  (f) Done in accordance with all applicable laws and guidelines of the State of Oregon and of the Department relating to personnel, compensation, volunteers, state liability, ethics, and the identification and prevention of conflicts of interest, including but not limited to ORS 171.725 to 171.785, ORS Chapters 179 and 244, and OAR 123-087-0030. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285A.200 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EDD 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 3-26-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EDD 35-1988, f. 11-30-88, cert. ef. 12-1-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
