



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 70 LEASING OF ONSHORE STATE-OWNED OIL AND GAS RIGHTS 
 141-070-0110 
 Surface Entry Permit 
 
 When the State owns the surface as well as the oil and gas rights, no road construction, site preparation or drilling for oil or gas shall take place on the surface of the leased premises prior to the issuance of a surface entry permit. When the state owns oil and gas rights but not surface, the lessee must pursue obtaining surface entry in the manner provided by law for exercising access to severed estate mineral rights. The Division may issue a surface entry permit upon receipt and approval of the following:  (1) An Operations Plan as required by the Department of Geology and Mineral Industries in conjunction with obtaining a drilling permit.  (2) A payment, production and performance bond or bonds in the amount stipulated in the lease agreement in addition to any performance bond that may be required by the Department of Geology and Mineral Industries in connection with issuance of an oil and gas drilling permit.  (3) A certificate of insurance for not less than $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence showing that the lessee is insured for personal injury, property damage to third persons and liability under the terms of the lease agreement. The insurance amount shall be for each occurrence and shall name the State of Oregon as an additional insured.  (4) An Environmental Impact Assessment completed by the lessee on a form provided by the Division. The environmental assessment shall include but will not be limited to adverse effects on the human and natural resources of the area, including scenic, recreational, public health, and plant and animal resources. It will also require a description of procedures the lessee will take to mitigate said impacts. The approval or disapproval of the Environmental Impact Assessment will be determined by the Division within 90 days of receipt of the completed form.  (5) Permits as required by governmental bodies.  (6) A designated agent, if lessee is a nonresident. Lessee shall designate, in writing, an Oregon resident as a designated agent upon whom may be served written notices or orders respecting the lease agreement.  (7) Operator. Any operator appointed by the lessee shall be jointly responsible for the faithful performance of all covenants and obligations of the lease. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273.780 - 273.790 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LB 3-1988, f. & cert. ef. 9-19-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
