



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 PUBLIC RECORDS ACCESS AND REPRODUCTION 
 690-003-0180 
 Department Response to Public Records Requests 
 
 (1) Prior to responding to a public records request, the Department will provide the requestor with a written estimation of the fee for responding to the request. The Department may provide the estimation by electronic mail. If the estimated fee exceeds $25, the Department will not continue to process the public records request until it has received a confirmation in writing or by electronic mail to proceed with the response.  (2) The Department may require prepayment of the estimated charges. If the actual charges are less than the prepayment, the overpayment will be refunded to the requestor. If the actual charges are more than the prepayment, the Department will require payment of the additional charges before providing the requested public records. If the Department determines that the actual charge will exceed the estimated charge by more than $25, the Department will notify the requestor before completing the response.  (3) Whenever feasible, the Department will provide double-sided copies of requested public records, and the fee for a double-sided copy will be the same as the cost of a single page.  (4) Copies of requested electronic public records may be provided in the format or manner maintained by the Department. The Department will perform all downloading, reproducing, formatting and manipulating of public records. Public access to Department computer terminals is allowed where such terminals are available; however, the public may not access Department databases in any manner that may allow the databases or records in the databases to be modified or deleted.  (5) The Department will respond to a public records request within 15 working days after receiving a written request in its Salem office, unless the volume of public records requested, staff availability to respond to the public record request, the difficulty in determining whether any of the public records are exempt from disclosure, or the necessity of consulting with legal counsel make this deadline unreasonable. If the Department determines that it will require more than 15 working days to respond to a public records request, it will inform the requestor of the estimated time necessary to comply with the public records request.  (6) In order to protect the integrity of Department public records, the Department will not allow public records to be loaned or taken off-premises by any person, except Department staff, to fulfill a public records request. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.430, 536.025 & 536.027 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.440, 536.050 & 536.480 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 6-2006, f. & cert. ef. 10-6-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
