



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 AGRICULTURAL WATER QUALITY  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
 603-090-0020 
 Local Water Quality Management Area Advisory Committee 
 
 (1) The department shall establish a local water quality management area advisory committee for each water quality management area established under these rules. The local water quality management area advisory committee shall represent a balance of affected persons. The local water quality management area advisory committee must provide an opportunity for a high level of citizen involvement in the development and implementation of the agricultural water quality management area plan and rules. The members of each local water quality management area advisory committee shall be appointed by the director in consultation with the board. The director and board shall consider the recommendations, if any, of the designated local management agency when making advisory committee appointments.  (2) A local water quality management area advisory committee shall consist of not more than twelve members, unless otherwise determined by the director in consultation with the board.  (3) A local water quality management area advisory committee shall be composed primarily of landowners in the affected local agricultural water quality management area. Membership may include, but is not limited to:  (a) State Board of Agriculture representatives;  (b) Persons serving on local soil and water conservation districts;  (c) Private landowners;  (d) Representatives of local, state and federal boards, commissions and agencies;  (e) Members of Indian tribes;  (f) Members of the public;  (g) Persons associated with industry;  (h) Members of academic, scientific and professional communities;  (i) Public and special interest groups.  (4) The local water quality management area advisory committee's responsibilities shall include but are not limited to:  (a) Participation in the development and ongoing modifications of the agricultural water quality management area plan and rules;  (b) Recommendation of strategies necessary to achieve water quality goals and objectives outlined in the agricultural water quality management area plan;  (c) Biennial review of the progress of implementation of the agricultural water quality management area plan and rules, including enforcement actions taken, and requests for alternate measures that have been granted or denied;  (d) Submittal of biennial, written reports to the Board and the director, including  (A) A summary of meetings held, advisory committee members present, actions taken, and progress and impediments toward implementation of the agricultural water quality management area plan; and  (B) Recommendations for modifications that may be necessary to achieve the purpose of the agricultural water quality management area plan as provided in OAR 603-090-0030.  (5) The Local Advisory Committee may reconvene as frequently as necessary to carry out the duties described above in OAR 603-090-0020(4). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 568.900 - 568.933 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 568.900 - 568.933 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 16-2006, f. & cert. ef. 9-15-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 9-1994, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
