



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 MODEL RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR CONTESTED CASES 
 137-003-0535 
 Participation as Party or Limited Party 
 
 (1) The agency may by rule or in writing identify persons or entities who shall be parties or limited parties.  (2) Persons who have an interest in the outcome of the agency's contested case proceeding or who represent a public interest in such result may request to participate as parties or limited parties. Unless otherwise provided by law, a person requesting to participate as a party or limited party shall file a petition with the agency and shall include a sufficient number of copies of the petition for service on all parties.  (3) The petition shall be filed at least 21 calendar days before the date set for the hearing, unless the agency by rule has set a different deadline or unless the agency and the parties agree to a different deadline. Petitions untimely filed shall not be considered unless the agency determines that good cause has been shown for failure to file within the required time.  (4) The petition shall include the following:  (a) Names and addresses of the petitioner and of any organization the petitioner represents;  (b) Name and address of the petitioner's attorney, if any;  (c) A statement of whether the request is for participation as a party or a limited party, and, if as a limited party, the precise area or areas in which participation is sought;  (d) If the petitioner seeks to protect a personal interest in the outcome of the agency's proceeding, a detailed statement of the petitioner's interest, economic or otherwise, and how such interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding;  (e) If the petitioner seeks to represent a public interest in the results of the proceeding, a detailed statement of such public interest, the manner in which such public interest will be affected by the results of the proceeding, and the petitioner's qualifications to represent such public interest;  (f) A statement of the reasons why existing parties to the proceeding cannot adequately represent the interest identified in subsection (4)(d) or (e) of this rule.  (5) The agency shall serve a copy of the petition on each party personally or by mail. Each party shall have seven calendar days from the date of personal service or agency mailing to file a response to the petition.  (6) If the agency determines under OAR 137-003-0530 that good cause has been shown for failure to file a timely petition, the agency at its discretion may:  (a) Shorten the time within which responses to the petition shall be filed; or  (b) Postpone the hearing until disposition is made of the petition.  (7) If a person is granted participation as a party or a limited party, the hearing may be postponed or continued to a later date if necessary to avoid an undue burden to one or more of the parties in the case.  (8) In ruling on petitions to participate as a party or a limited party, the agency shall consider:  (a) Whether the petitioner has demonstrated a personal or public interest that could reasonably be affected by the outcome of the proceeding;  (b) Whether any such affected interest is within the scope of the agency's jurisdiction and within the scope of the notice of contested case hearing;  (c) When a public interest is alleged, the qualifications of the petitioner to represent that interest;  (d) The extent to which the petitioner's interest will be represented by existing parties.  (9) The agency may treat a petition to participate as a party as if it were a petition to participate as a limited party.  (10) If the agency grants a petition, the agency shall specify areas of participation and procedural limitations as it deems appropriate.  (11) An agency ruling on a petition to participate as a party or as a limited party shall be by written order and served promptly on the petitioner, all parties and the Office of Administrative Hearings or assigned administrative law judge. If the petition is allowed, the agency shall also provide petitioner with the notice of rights required by ORS 183.413(2) or request the administrative law judge to do so. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341, 183.415(4), 183.450(3) & OL 1999 & Ch. 849 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 19-2003, f. 12-12-03, cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 7-2003, f. 7-11-03, cert. ef. 7-21-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 10-1999, f. 12-23-99, cert. ef. 1-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
