



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Forestry 
 Chapter 629 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 FOREST PARK AND RECREATION AREAS 
 629-025-0031 
 Reservations 
 
 (1) General Regulations: 

 (a) Reservations will be accepted and processed for specified facilities through the internet via the Oregon State Parks Reservation Center. 

 (b) A Person may make a reservation a maximum of nine months prior to the arrival date. 

 (c) A Person must be 18 years of age or older to make a reservation. 

 (d) A Person may not make reservations for multiple areas for the same date range. 

 (e) Reservations and registrations for horse camping sites shall be made only for people Camping with their horses or similar large animals unless otherwise specified by the Forester. 

 (f) Only the Person whose name appears on the original reservation, their designee (as documented in the reservation records) or the primary occupant may change or cancel an existing reservation or access information associated with a reservation. 

 (g) Customer information may be made available upon written request in compliance with ORS chapter 192 and Department policy. 

 (h) Specific information regarding a confirmed reservation will not be released to the public as provided in ORS 192.501 and 192.502. 

 (2) Transaction Fees and Deposits: 

 (a) The Department will charge a non-refundable transaction fee, not to exceed $20 for each reservation made through the Internet. 

 (b) Reservations require a facility deposit equal to the full amount charged for use of the facility during the reservation period. 

 (c) All fees are due at the time the Person makes the reservation. 

 (3) Payment Methods: A Person may use a valid credit card (VISA or MasterCard) or bank debit card with a VISA or MasterCard logo. 

 (4) Reservation Cancellations: 

 (a) A Person may cancel their reservation prior to the day of arrival by using the internet or by calling the Oregon State Parks Reservation Center. 

 (b) The Department will post detailed instructions for cancelling a reservation on the Department's web site which is available seven days a week, 24 hours a day. 

 (c) To cancel a reservation on the day of arrival a Person may contact the district office where their reservation is held. 

 (d) In order to receive a refund of all use fees, a Person must cancel the reservation for individual campsites or horse camps three or more days prior to the arrival date. If the cancellation is received less than three days in advance of the arrival date, a fee equal to one overnight rental fee for the facility will be forfeited. 

 (e) In order to receive a refund of all use fees for group camps, Day Use Areas, meeting halls, pavilions, or other facilities as specified by the Department, a Person must cancel the reservation at least one month prior to arrival. If the cancellation request is received less than 30 days in advance of the arrival date, a fee equal to one night’s or one day’s rental for the facility will be forfeited. 

 (f) A Person may not cancel reservations more than eight months in advance of the arrival date. 

 (5) Reservation Changes: 

 (a) The Department will charge a non-refundable transaction fee, not to exceed $20 for each reservation.  

 (b) A Person may request to change a confirmed reservation by calling the Oregon State Parks Reservation Center. 

 (c) A Person may not make any date changes to reservations more than eight months in advance of the arrival date. 

 (d) Reservations made for six or more consecutive nights that are later shortened will be charged the nightly rate for each night removed in addition to a transaction fee, not to exceed $20 for the change. This rule applies to shortening nights at the beginning of a reservation, not at the end of a reservation. 

 (e) A Person must request a reservation change for campsites or horse camps three or more days in advance of the arrival date. Changes are not permitted within three days of the arrival date. 

 (f) A Person requesting a reservation change for group camps, Day Use Areas, meeting halls, pavilions, or other facilities as designated by the department must request the change at least 30 days prior to arrival date. Changes are not permitted within 30 days of the arrival date. 

 (g) Customers, including those that have pre-registered, who do not check in at the Campground or notify Department staff that they will be delayed prior to 1:00 p.m. of the second day of the reservation will be considered a “no show” and the entire reservation will be cancelled. The first night fee and any transaction fees previously collected for the reservation will be retained. Any remaining nightly fees paid to confirm the reservation will be refunded. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 530.050 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 530.010 - 530.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOF 2-2018, adopt filed 05/01/2018, effective 05/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
