



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 PUBLIC HEALTH PREPAREDNESS 
 333-003-0117 
 Volunteer Registry: Registration of Formerly Licensed Health Care Providers and Support and Administrative Personnel; Renewal
 
 
 (1) A person who was licensed, certified or otherwise authorized to provide health care services not more than 10 years prior to the date of application, may apply to the Public Health Division (Division) to be registered as a formerly licensed health care provider to provide emergency health care services during an emergency under the provisions of ORS 401.658. When the requirements that enable a formerly licensed health care provider to provide health care services after certain declared emergencies are not met, the person is considered support and administrative personnel under section (2) of this rule. 

 (2) A person who is not currently licensed, certified or otherwise authorized to provide health care, or who does not wish to apply in that capacity, may apply to the Division to be registered under the category of support and administrative personnel. 

 (3) A person described in section (1) or (2) of this rule shall apply by completing a form prescribed by the Division and submitting the form in the manner prescribed by the Division. 

 (4) An applicant described in section (1) of this rule shall provide evidence from the entity that licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized the applicant to previously provide health care services that verifies that the applicant was in good standing at the time the applicant surrendered a license, certification or authorization to provide health care services. Individuals that may be registered with the status of previously licensed health care provider under section (1) of this rule are limited to individuals that were licensed, registered or certified by the following entities within the last 10 years: 

 (a) State Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology; 

 (b) Oregon Board of Chiropractic Examiners; 

 (c) State Board of Licensed Social Workers; 

 (d) Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists; 

 (e) Oregon Board of Dentistry; 

 (f) Board of Licensed Dietitians; 

 (g) Oregon State Board of Massage Therapists; 

 (h) Oregon Board of Naturopathic Medicine; 

 (i) Oregon State Board of Nursing; 

 (j) Oregon Board of Optometry; 

 (k) Oregon Board of Pharmacy; 

 (l) Oregon Medical Board; 

 (m) Occupational Therapy Licensing Board; 

 (n) Oregon Board of Physical Therapy; 

 (o) Oregon Board of Psychology; 

 (p) Oregon Board of Medical Imaging; 

 (q) Oregon Health Authority (Authority), to the extent that the Authority licenses emergency medical technicians; 

 (r) Long Term Care Administrators Board; 

 (s) Behavior Analysis Regulatory Board; 

 (t) State Mortuary and Cemetery Board; or 

 (u) Oregon State Veterinary Medical Examining Board. 

 (5) The Division may request additional information from an applicant if the application is incomplete or questions arise about the applicant during the Division’s verification process. 

 (6) An applicant shall undergo a criminal background check and shall sign any necessary authorizations and pay any necessary fees for the criminal background check. 

 (7) The Division shall notify an applicant, in writing, if they have been accepted as a registrant and if not, why not. 

 (8) If an applicant has been accepted, the Division shall also provide the registrant information described in OAR 333-003-0118. 

 (9) The Division may issue a registrant a registry identification card once the registrant has completed the orientation and training required in OAR 333-018-0118. The identification card shall: 

 (a) Identify the registrant; 

 (b) Indicate that the registrant is registered as a formerly licensed health care provider or under the category of support or administrative personnel; 

 (c) If the person is a previously licensed health care provider, identify the license or certification previously held by the registrant; and 

 (d) If the person is a previously licensed health care provider, identify the registrant's former area of practice if that information is available and the Division determines that it is appropriate to provide that information. 

 (10) The Division shall require each registrant to update the individual’s registration information every two years, or when changes occur, and a registrant shall be required to sign a form, prescribed by the Division, that indicates the registrant is willing and able to remain in the registry. A registrant shall provide documentation of completed continuing education credits with the renewal form. 

 (11) The Division may conduct a criminal background check on registrants registered under this rule every five years. A registrant is responsible for signing any necessary authorizations and paying any necessary fees. 

 (12) A registrant identification card may be renewed and provided to a registrant who fulfills the requirements in section (10) and (11) of this rule. 

 (13) The Division may remove a registrant from the registry if the Division: 

 (a) Is notified or learns that a registrant is not in good standing with a relevant licensing board or certifying agency; 

 (b) Determines that a registrant is not capable of providing services; 

 (c) Determines that a registrant has a personal or criminal history that calls into question the ability of the registrant to safely provide services 

 (d) The registrant requests to be removed from the registry; 

 (e) Determines that a registrant is not complying with these rules; 

 (f) Finds a registrant does not complete required screenings of physical health, or emotional health in order to assign appropriate duties without increased health-related risks; 

 (g) Finds a registrant is determined to be unable to perform duties due to health-related risks; 

 (h) Finds the registrant fails to notify the Division of a change in their criminal history; or 

 (i) Finds the registrant fails to complete a criminal history check when required by the Division requires. 

 (14) A registrant that has been removed from the registry may be reactivated in the registry at any time but must include with their request an explanation that describes how the issue that led to removal has been addressed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 401.651 - 401.670 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 401.651 - 401.670 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 17-2026, amend filed 02/04/2026, effective 02/05/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 7-2021, amend filed 01/25/2021, effective 01/25/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 6-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 4-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
