



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 8 DISTRIBUTION OF LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUNDING ASSISTANCE TO UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT FOR PUBLIC OUTDOOR RECREATION 
 736-008-0050 
 Oregon Outdoor Recreation Committee
 
 
 (1) The OORC shall be composed of nine members appointed by the Director. The OORC membership, to serve nonconcurrent four-year terms, shall represent the following interests: 

 (a) Counties east of the Cascade Mountains; 

 (b) Counties west of the Cascade Mountains; 

 (c) Cities under 15,000 people; 

 (d) Cities over 15,000 people; 

 (e) Park and Recreation Districts, Metropolitan Service District or Port Districts; 

 (f) State Parks and Recreation Department; 

 (g) People with Disabilities; 

 (h) Member of a historically underrepresented community; or Representatives from Tribal Governments; and 

 (i) The public at large; 

 (j) The chair shall be nominated and selected by the members of the OORC. 

 (2) Selection of committee members shall be from a list of not less than two candidates for each position to be supplied by: 

 (a) County representation shall be from lists supplied by the Oregon Recreation and Park Association's Counties & Outdoor Recreation Section (CORS) and the Association of Oregon Counties; 

 (b) City representation shall be from lists supplied by the Oregon Recreation and Park Association and the League of Oregon Cities; 

 (c) Park and Recreation District, Port District or Metropolitan Service District representation shall be from a list supplied by the Special Districts Association of Oregon; 

 (d) Representatives for People with Disabilities, Tribal Governments, Member of a historically underrepresented community, Public at Large, and Parks Department shall be selected by the Director. 

 (e) The Department may consult with other appropriate organizations not otherwise listed in subsections (a) to (d) for committee membership candidates. 

 (3) The travel, meals and lodging expenses of all members of the Committee will be reimbursed by the Department according to the rates established by the Department of Administrative Services and approved by the Director. 

 (4) Function of OORC: 

 (a) The OORC shall meet upon the call of the Director or designee. The OORC will establish a priority order of eligible local government projects for LWCF funding assistance or provide other assistance as requested by the Department. 

 (b) Each applicant shall be allowed to make a presentation under a procedure established by the Department. 

 (5) Priority Selection Criteria. Projects shall be prioritized by the OORC based on at least the following: 

 (a) Department review and recommendations, including a technical review of each project that will include the extent to which projects satisfy basic outdoor recreation needs and urgent needs identified in SCORP, the extent the project meets the recreation needs identified in the local comprehensive land use plan, and applicant’s past performance in their ability to complete and bill projects, maintain existing facilities, and whether there are any outstanding conversions; 

 (b) The OORC shall review all applications using project selection criteria, including but not limited to the following: 

 (A) Extent the project demonstrates user benefits, public interest and support; 

 (B) Extent the project demonstrates conformance with local and state planning guidelines, the SCORP and local Park Master Plans; all projects must be identified in local comprehensive plans and current park master plans or a current local planning document; 

 (C) Financial considerations, including cost/benefit ratio; 

 (D) Environmental resources survey 

 (E) Extent the project increases outdoor recreation opportunity in the service area. 

 (F) How well the project’s design accommodates people with disabilities. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 6-2021, amend filed 06/25/2021, effective 06/25/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 7-1995, f. & cert. ef. 7-19-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 1-1983, f. & ef. 2-18-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 4-1981, f. & ef. 4-1-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1OTC 45, f. 11-27-74, ef. 1-1-75 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
