



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 54 RESIDENTIAL CARE AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES 
 411-054-0045 
 Resident Health Services
 
 
 (1) RESIDENT HEALTH SERVICES. The facility must provide health services and have systems in place to respond to the 24-hour care needs of residents. The system must: 

 (a) Include written policies and procedures on medical emergency response for all shifts. 

 (b) Include an Oregon licensed nurse who is regularly scheduled for onsite duties at the facility and who is available for phone consultation. 

 (c) Assure an adequate number of nursing hours relevant to the census and acuity of the resident population. IICs must meet contract requirements concerning nursing hours. 

 (d) Ensure that the facility RN is notified of nursing needs as identified in OAR 411-054-0034 (Resident Move-In and Evaluation) or OAR 411-054-0036 (Service Plan – General). 

 (e) Define the duties, responsibilities and limitations of the facility nurse in policy and procedures, admission, and disclosure material. 

 (f) Licensed nurses must deliver the following nursing services: 

 (A) Registered nurse (RN) assessment in accordance with facility policy and resident condition. At minimum, the RN must assess all residents with a significant change of condition. The assessment may be a full or problem focused assessment as determined by the RN. A chart review or phone consultation may be performed as part of this assessment. The RN must document findings, resident status, and interventions made as a result of this assessment. The assessment must be timely, but is not required prior to emergency response in acute situations. 

 (B) Delegation and Teaching. Delegation and teaching must be provided and documented by a RN in accordance with the Oregon Administrative Rules adopted by the Oregon State Board of Nursing in chapter 851, division 047. 

 (C) Monitoring of Resident Condition. The facility must specify the role of the licensed nurse in the facility's monitoring and reporting system. 

 (D) Participation on Service Planning Team. If the resident experiences a significant change of condition and the service plan is updated, the licensed nurse must participate on the Service Planning Team, or must review the service plan with date and signature within 48 hours. 

 (E) Health Care Teaching and Counseling. A licensed nurse must provide individual and group education activities as required by individual service plans and facility policies. 

 (F) Intermittent Direct Nursing Services. If a resident requires nursing services that are not available through hospice, home health, a third-party referral, or the task cannot be delegated to facility staff, the facility must arrange to have such services provided on an intermittent or temporary basis. Such services may be of a temporary nature as defined in facility policy, admission agreements and disclosure information. 

 (2) ON-SITE AND OFF-SITE HEALTH SERVICES. The facility must assist residents in accessing health care services and benefits to which they are entitled from outside providers. When benefits are no longer available, or if the resident is not eligible for benefits, the facility must provide or coordinate the required services, as defined in facility disclosure information, for residents whose health status is stable and predictable. 

 (a) On-site Health Services. The facility must coordinate on-site health services with outside service providers such as hospice, home health, or other privately paid supplemental health care providers. 

 (A) The facility management or licensed nurse must be notified of the services provided by the outside provider to ensure that staff are informed of new interventions, and that the service plan is adjusted if necessary, and reporting protocols are in place. 

 (B) The facility nurse must review the resident's health related service plan changes made as a result of the provision of on-site health services noted in section (2)(a)(A) of this rule. 

 (C) The facility must have policies to ensure that outside service providers leave written information in the facility that addresses the on-site services being provided to the resident and any clinical information necessary for facility staff to provide supplemental care. 

 (b) Off-site Health Services. The facility must coordinate off-site health services for residents who cannot or choose not to self-manage their health services. 

 (A) The facility must assist the resident by coordinating appointments, with outside providers, that are necessary to support the resident's health needs. 

 (B) Transportation for medical purposes must be arranged or provided for by the facility. 

 (C) Following a resident's visit to an outside medical provider, if information is obtained from said provider, it must be included in the resident's record. Adjustments to the resident's services and service plan must be made as applicable. 

 (D) The facility must provide relevant information to the off-site provider and must have a protocol to facilitate the receipt of information from the provider. 

 (c) The facility is exempt from the coordination of outside health services for residents who are capable and choose to independently arrange and manage their health care needs. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 443.450 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 443.400 - 443.455 & 443.991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 24-2018, minor correction filed 07/11/2018, effective 07/11/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 19-2018, amend filed 06/29/2018, effective 06/29/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 35-2017, temporary amend filed 12/30/2017, effective 01/01/2018 through 06/29/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SPD 14-2007, f. 8-31-07, cert. ef. 11-1-07 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
