



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 59 FERTILIZERS, AGRICULTURAL MINERALS, AND LIMES 
 603-059-0100 
 Limits of Non Nutritive Constituents 
 
 (1) Fertilizer, agricultural amendment, agricultural mineral and lime products sold or distributed in the state and required to be registered with the Department shall be limited in the level of the metals arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), lead (Pb), and nickel (Ni), contained therein, specifically:  (a) When the product has a guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5), for each percent of P2O5 guaranteed, the maximum allowed level of a metal, expressed in parts per million (ppm), must not exceed: 9 ppm arsenic, 7.5 ppm cadmium, 43 ppm lead, 0.7 ppm mercury, 175 ppm nickel.  (A) To determine the maximum allowed concentration of each metal in a product, multiply the percent guaranteed P2O5 for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal.  (B) For the purpose of calculating the maximum allowed concentration of a metal in a product with a guaranteed analysis of less than six percent P2O5, the minimum percent of P2O5 utilized as a multiplier shall be 6.0.  (b) When the product has no guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5) but does have a guaranteed analysis of one micronutrient, for each percent of the micronutrient guaranteed, the maximum allowed level of a metal, expressed in parts per million (ppm), must not exceed: 76 ppm arsenic, 61 ppm cadmium, 340 ppm lead, 4.5 ppm mercury, 1330 ppm nickel.  (A) To determine the maximum allowed concentration of each metal in a product, multiply the percent of the micronutrient guaranteed for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal.  (B) For the purpose of calculating the maximum allowed concentration of a metal in a product with less than one percent micronutrient guaranteed, the minimum percent of micronutrient utilized as a multiplier shall be 1.0.  (c) When the product has no guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5) but does have a guaranteed analysis of two or more micronutrients, for each percent of the micronutrient in the greatest concentration, the product shall not contain more than 76 parts per million (ppm) arsenic, 61 ppm cadmium, 340 ppm lead, 4.5 ppm mercury, 1330 ppm nickel.  (A) To determine the maximum allowed concentration of each metal in a product, multiply the percent of the micronutrient guaranteed for the product in the greatest concentration by the maximum allowed level of each metal.  (B) For the purpose of calculating the maximum allowed concentration of a metal in a product with less than one percent micronutrient guaranteed, the minimum percent of micronutrient utilized as a multiplier shall be 1.0.  (d) When the product has a guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5) and has a guaranteed analysis of one micronutrient, the product shall not contain more of any metal than the higher of the two resulting values as calculated in (a) or (b) above, specifically: To determine the maximum allowed concentration of a metal in a product, multiply the percent guaranteed P2O5 for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal as stated in (a) above. Then multiply the percent of the micronutrient guaranteed for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal as stated in (b) above. Utilize the higher of the two resulting values as the maximum allowable metal concentration.  (e) When the product has a guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5) and has a guaranteed analysis of two or more micronutrients, the product shall not contain more of any metal than the higher of the resulting values as calculated in (a) or (c) above. To determine the maximum allowed concentration of each metal in a product, multiply the percent guaranteed P2O5 for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal as stated in (a) above. Then multiply the highest percent of a micronutrient guaranteed for the product by the maximum allowed level of the metal as stated in (c) above. Utilize the higher of the resulting values as the maximum allowable metal concentration.  (f) When the product has no guaranteed analysis of available phosphate (P2O5) and no guaranteed analysis of a micronutrient, the product shall not contain more than: 54 parts per million (ppm) arsenic, 45 ppm cadmium, 258 ppm lead, 4.2 ppm mercury, 1050 ppm nickel.  (2) Any fertilizer, agricultural amendment, agricultural mineral or lime product which is made from zinc recycled hazardous wastes as regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) must comply with the existing, applicable land disposal restriction (LDR) treatment standards for the hazardous wastes the products contain or comply with the conditions for excluding hazardous secondary materials as established in the Federal Register/Vol.67, No. 142/Wednesday, July 24, 2002/Pages 48393–48415.  (3) The department will review the permitted levels of metals or other substances in fertilizer, agricultural amendment, agricultural mineral and lime products every three years as authorized by ORS 633.362(11).  (4) Registration of a fertilizer, agricultural amendment, agricultural mineral or lime product with the department does not entitle the user of such product to violate regulations administered by any other authority with jurisdiction, including Water Quality Standards administered by the Department of Environmental Quality. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 633 as amended by Ch. 914 OL 2001 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 633 as amended by Ch. 914 OL 2001 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 25-2002, f. 12-2-02, cert. ef. 1-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
