



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 309 ELECTRICAL PERMITS AND FEES 
 918-309-0410 
 Renewable Electrical Energy Bulk Labels 
 
 (1) A separate Renewable Electrical Energy Permit Application Form and Renewable Electrical Energy Installer Log are to be used for renewable energy electrical system installations. The Renewable Electrical Energy Permit:  (a) Covers the renewable electrical energy system installation and the alternating current feeder connection to the structure where applicable. The permit shall include an installer log to document all work performed under the permit; and  (b) May be purchased by a general contractor, subcontractor, limited renewable energy contractor or property owner provided the requirements of this rule are met.  (2) The renewable electrical energy activities covered by the permit shall be declared at the time the permit is purchased. New permits must be purchased for all other renewable electrical energy installations;  (3) The person applying for the permit shall:  (a) Assume responsibility to call for an inspection after the permits are signed by; the limited renewable energy contractor, signing supervisor or property owner and that these installations are completed and comply with the requirements of the renewable electrical energy laws and these rules;  (b) Be responsible for all corrections required by the inspec-tor under the permit, regardless of who performs the work; and  (c) Call for a final inspection when needed corrections are made and the work is completed.  (4) The person obtaining the permit may:  (a) Include any and all renewable electrical energy installations including those done by separate installers, but the installations must be ready for inspection at the first call for inspection. When this is done, the permit shall be completed and separately signed by the person, also identifying the business responsible for each type of renewable electrical energy installation.  (b) Receive up to two inspections. For inspections in excess of those allowed under this rule, a charge of $86 per hour including travel time and office time with a minimum charge of one hour for each additional inspection shall be paid in advance.  (5) All parties performing work under the permit shall be identifed at the time of permit is issued. If the party performing the work is changed, the party who completed the work must be identified.  (6) Nothwithstanding the activities identified in the permit application, the permit only covers those electrical installations that are in place at the time of the first call for inspection of the renewable electrical energy work. A separate permit shall be purchased for all other renewable electrical energy installations whether the installations become ready for inspection at a later date or are done at a later date.  (7) The Renewable Electrical Energy Installers Log shall be posted at the job site for signing by appropriate persons installing the separate electrical systems as shown on the form. The jurisdiction may require more than one installer log to be completed and left at the job site. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.870 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.870 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 9-2002, f. 3-29-02, cert. ef. 4-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 23-2001(Temp), f. 12-28-01, cert. ef. 1-1-02 thru 6-29-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
