



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 22 STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS 
 581-022-2215 
 Safety of School Sports – Concussions
 
 
 (1) As used in this rule: 

 (a) “Annual training” means once in a twelve month period. 

 (b) “Coach” means a person who instructs or trains members on a school athletic team and may be: 

 (A) A school district employee; 

 (B) A person who volunteers for a school district 

 (C) A person who is performing services on behalf of a school district pursuant to a contract. 

 (c) “Concussion” means exhibiting signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion following an observed or suspected blow to the head or body. 

 (d) “Health care professional” means a medical doctor, osteopathic physician, psychologist, physician associate or nurse practitioner licensed or certified under the laws of this state. 

 (e) “Proper medical treatment” means treatment provided by a licensed healthcare professional which is within their scope of practice. 

 (f) “Return to participation” means a student can rejoin the athletic event or training. 

 (g) “Training timeline” means every coach receives the training prior to the beginning of the season for the school athletic team they are specifically coaching. 

 (h) “Same day” means the same calendar day on which the injury occurs. 

 (2) Each school district shall: 

 (a) Develop a list of coaches. 

 (b) Identify which community (may include state or national) resources the district will use to provide the training as required in section (3) of this rule. 

 (c) Develop training timelines for coaches of all school athletic teams. 

 (d) Ensure coaches receive training once every twelve months. 

 (e) Develop a tracking system to document that all coaches meet the training requirements of this rule. 

 (f) Ensure no coach allows a member of a school athletic team to participate in any athletic event or training on the same calendar day that the member: 

 (A) Exhibits signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion following an observed or suspected blow to the head or body; or 

 (B) Has been diagnosed with a concussion. 

 (g) Except as provided by subsection (3) in this section ensure no coach will allow a student who is prohibited from participating in an athletic event or training, as described in section (2)(f), to return to participate in an athletic event or training no sooner than the day after the student experienced a blow to the head or body. The student may not return to participate in an athletic event or training until the following two conditions have been met: 

 (A) The student no longer exhibits signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion; and 

 (B) The student receives a medical release form from a health care professional. 

 (3) A coach may allow a member of a school athletic team to participate in any athletic event or training at any time after an athletic trainer registered by the Board of Athletic Trainers determines that the member has not suffered a concussion. The athletic trainer may, but is not required to, consult with a healthcare professional in making the determination that the member has not suffered a concussion. 

 (4) The training required of coaches under this rules shall include the following: 

 (a) Training in how to recognize the signs and symptoms of a concussion; 

 (b) Training in strategies to reduce the risk of concussions; 

 (c) Training in how to seek proper medical treatment for a person suspected of having a concussion; and 

 (d) Training in determination of when the athlete may safely return to the event or training. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 336.485 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 336.485 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 13-2025, minor correction filed 03/13/2025, effective 03/13/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 581-022-0421 by ODE 16-2017, f. & cert. ef. 7-5-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 29-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 2-2011, f. 1-31-11, cert. ef. 2-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 13-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
