



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 410 STATE STANDARDS FOR EDUCATOR PREPARATION PROVIDERS 
 584-410-0080 
 English Language Learners (ELL) 
 
 ( 1) Purpose of the Standards: It is the Commission’s policy that every PreK-12 educator has a responsibility to meet the needs of Oregon’s English Language Learner (ELL) students. As such, accreditation and educator preparation requirements must support the demand for well-prepared educators to work with second language learners of all ages. 

 (2) These standards apply to preservice and in-service candidates working to become teachers, administrators, personnel service educators and Educator Preparation Provider (EPP) faculty. 

 (3) Standards: ELL Knowledge, Skills, Abilities and Dispositions: 

 (a) Standard 1: Language: Candidates, and higher education faculty, must know, understand, and use the major concepts, theories, and research related to the nature and acquisition of language to construct learning environments that support ELL and bilingual students' language and literacy development and content area achievement. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Understand concepts related to academic versus social language, oracy versus literacy, and grammatical forms and linguistic functions; 

 (B) Are familiar with characteristics of students at different stages of second-language acquisition and English Language Proficiency (ELP) levels; 

 (C) Recognize the role of the first language (L1) in learning the second language (L2); and 

 (D) Are aware of personal, affective and social variables influencing second language acquisition. 

 (b) Standard 2: Culture: Candidates and higher education faculty know and understand the major concepts, principles, theories, and research related to the nature and role of culture and cultural groups to construct learning environments that support ELL students' cultural identities, language and literacy development, and content area achievement. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Understand the impact of culture on language learning; 

 (B) Recognize and combat deficit perspectives and views on second language learner students; 

 (C) Understand that learners’ skills, knowledge and experiences should be used as resources for learning; and 

 (D) Understand how one’s own culture impacts one’s teaching practice. 

 (c) Standard 3: Planning, Implementing, and Managing Instruction: Candidates and higher education faculty know and understand the use of standards-based practices and strategies related to planning, implementing, and managing English as a Second Language (ESL) and content instruction, including classroom organization, teaching strategies for developing and integrating language skills, and choosing and adapting classroom resources. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Are familiar with different ELL program models for language acquisition, English Language Development (ELD) and content pedagogy (sheltered and bilingual models); 

 (B) Incorporate basic sheltered strategies (e.g., visuals, grouping strategies, frontloading, and explicit vocabulary) appropriate to learners at different levels of English language proficiency within a gradual release of responsibility model; 

 (C) Are familiar with state-adopted English Language Proficiencies standards and are able to develop lessons that include both content and language objectives related to those standards; and 

 (D) Incorporate primary language support within instruction. 

 (d) Standard 4: Assessment: Candidates and higher education faculty understand issues of assessment and use standards-based assessment measures with ELL and bilingual learners of all ages. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Understand the role of language in content assessments; and 

 (B) Implement multiple and varied assessments that allow learners to demonstrate knowledge of content regardless of language proficiency level. 

 (e) Standard 5: Professionalism: Candidates and higher education faculty demonstrate knowledge of the history of ESL teaching. Candidates keep current with new instructional techniques, research results, advances in the ESL field, and public policy issues. Candidates use such information to reflect upon and improve their instructional practices. Candidates provide support and advocate for ELL and bilingual students and their families and work collaboratively to improve the learning environment. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Understand the importance of fostering family and school partnerships; and 

 (B) Understand the importance of collaborating and consulting with English Language Development specialists. 

 (f) Standard 6: Technology: Candidates and higher education faculty use information technology to enhance learning and to enhance personal and professional productivity. Candidates and higher education faculty: 

 (A) Demonstrate knowledge of current technologies and application of technology with ELL students; 

 (B) Design, develop, and implement student learning activities that integrate information technology; and 

 (C) Use technologies to communicate, network, locate resources, and enhance continuing professional development. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 2-2018, adopt filed 04/17/2018, effective 04/17/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
