



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Business Development Department 
 Chapter 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 OREGON SEISMIC REHABILITATION GRANTS PROGRAM 
 123-051-0200 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Acute inpatient care facility” means a licensed hospital with an organized medical staff, with permanent facilities that include inpatient beds, with comprehensive medical services, including physician services and continuous nursing services under the supervision of registered nurses, to provide diagnosis and medical or surgical treatment primarily for, but not limited to acutely ill patients and accident victims. “Acute inpatient care facility” includes the Oregon Health and Science University.  (2) “Applicant” means a school district, community college, education service district, police, sheriff, fire, hospital which is applying for a grant from the Seismic Rehabilitation program.  (3) “Authority” means the Infrastructure Finance Authority within the Oregon Business Development Department.  (4) “Collapse Prevention” means a building at this performance level is capable of maintaining gravity loads though structural damage is severe and risk of falling hazard is high as set forth in the American Society of Civil Engineers Standard for Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings newest edition.  (5) “Critical Public Buildings” includes hospital buildings with acute inpatient care facilities, fire stations, police stations, sheriffs’ offices, other facilities used by state, county, district, or municipal law enforcement agencies and buildings with a capacity of 250 or more persons that are routinely used for student activities by kindergarten through grade 12 public schools, community colleges and education service districts.  (6) “Distressed or Impoverished” means all Oregon cities and counties designated by Oregon Business Development Department as distressed or impoverished by established methodology.  (7) “Education Service District (ESD)” means a district created under ORS 334.010 that provides regional educational services to component school districts.  (8) “Grant Program” means The Seismic Rehabilitation Grant Program (SRGP).  (9) “Grant Selection Committee” means the committee that is charged with evaluating grant applications for the purpose of determining which projects receive funding. The grant selection committee membership shall include representatives of Oregon Department of Education, The Department of Human Services, The Office of Emergency Management/Oregon Military Department, The State Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission, The Oregon Department of Administrative Services, The Oregon Fire Chiefs’ Association, The Oregon Association of Chiefs of Police, Community Colleges and Workforce Development, The Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems, The Confederation of Oregon School Administrators and others who possess expertise in construction, construction grants and structural design as determined by the Authority.  (10) “Grantee” means applicant awarded grant funds for seismic rehabilitation project.  (11) “Holistic Project” means a project emphasizing the whole building instead of the separation of its parts.  (12) “Immediate Occupancy” means a building at this performance level is expected of being sufficiently functional for occupancy as set forth in the American Society of Civil Engineers Standard for Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings newest edition.  (13) “Life Safety” means a building at this performance level is expected to present low risk of life threatening injury to building inhabitants as set forth in the American Society of Civil Engineers Standard for Seismic Evaluation of Existing Buildings newest edition.  (14) “Match” is any contribution to a project that is non-seismic grant funds. Match may include:  (a) Cash on hand or cash that is pledged to be on hand prior to commencement of the project; and,  (b) Secured funding commitments from other sources.  (15) “Project” means seismic rehabilitation activity (or activities) to be performed on a building that is eligible for assistance from the Seismic Rehabilitation Grant Program.  (16) “Seismic Rehabilitation” means construction of structural improvements to a building that results in the increased capability of the building to resist earthquake forces and that is based on standards adopted by the State of Oregon or by local governments.  (17) “Structural” means components of a building that support or resist loads. Parts of a building that bear weight.  (18) “Tsunami Inundation Zone” means for purposes of the SRGP, the area depicted as the tsunami inundation zone in Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Open-File Reports O-95-09 through O-95-38, O-95-43 through O-95-66 and O-97-31 through O-97-32.  (19) “Useful Life” means the length of time that the building or structure is expected to be used, or 30 years, whichever is greater. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 285A.093, 285A.098, 401.910 & 2013 OL Ch. 782 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 285A.093, 285A.098 & 401.910 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 2-2017, f. & cert. ef. 8-8-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBDD 13-2013, f. 12-30-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
