



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 93 SOLID WASTE: GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 340-093-0130 
 Site Characterization Report(s) 
 
 The purpose of the site characterization report(s) required by OAR 340-093-0070(3)(e) is to demonstrate that the proposed facility will be located in a suitable site and will use appropriate technology in design, construction and operation. The site characterization report(s) must describe existing site conditions and a conceptual engineering proposal in sufficient detail to determine whether the facility is feasible and protects the environment. Except as provided in OAR 340-093-0070(4), the site characterization report(s) must include, but not be limited to, the following:  (1) Information on site location and existing site conditions, including:  (a) A site location description, including a location map and list of adjacent landowners;  (b) An Existing Conditions Map of the area showing land use and zoning within 1/4 mile of the disposal site; and  (c) Identification of any siting limitations and how those limitations will be addressed.  (2) A description of the scope, magnitude, type, and purpose of the proposed facility, including but not limited to the following:  (a) Estimated capacity and projected life of the site;  (b) Identification of the communities, industries and/or markets to be served;  (c) Anticipated types and quantities of solid wastes to be received, disposed of and/or processed by the facility;  (d) Summary of general design criteria and submittal of conceptual engineering plans;  (e) Description of how the proposed technology compares to current technological practices, or to similar proven technology, including references to where similar technology has been effectively implemented;  (f) Demonstration that the proposed facility is compatible with the local solid waste management plan and the state solid waste management plan;  (g) Planned future use of the disposal site after closure;  (h) Key assumptions used to calculate the economic viability of the proposed facility; and  (i) The public involvement process that has been and will be implemented.  (3) A proposal for protection and conservation of the air, water and land environment surrounding the disposal site, including control and/or treatment of leachate, methane gas, litter and vectors, and control of other discharges, emissions and activities which may result in a public health hazard, a public nuisance or environmental degradation.  (4) For a landfill, the following must be included:  (a) A detailed soils, geologic, and groundwater report of the site prepared and stamped by a professional Engineer, Geologist or Engineering Geologist with current Oregon registration. The report must include consideration of surface features, geologic formations, soil boring data, water table profile, direction of groundwater flow, background quality of water resources in the anticipated zone of influence of the landfill, need and availability of cover material, climate, average rates of precipitation, evapotranspiration, runoff, and infiltration (preliminary water balance calculations);  (b) Information on soil borings to a minimum depth of 20 feet below the deepest proposed excavation and lowest elevation of the site or to the permanent groundwater table if encountered within 20 feet. A minimum of one boring per representative landform at the site and an overall minimum of one boring per each ten acres must be provided. Soil boring data must include the location, depth, surface elevation and water level measurements of all borings, the textural classification (Unified Soil Classification System), permeability and cation exchange capacity of the subsurface materials and a preliminary soil balance;  (c) For all water wells located within the anticipated zone of influence of the disposal site, the depth, static level and current use must be identified;  (d) Background groundwater quality must be determined by laboratory analysis and must include at least each of the constituents specified by the department.  (5) Any other information the department may deem necessary to determine whether the proposed disposal site is feasible and will comply with all applicable rules of the department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 459 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 459.015 & 459.205(1) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 6-2009, f. & cert. ef. 9-14-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 17-1997, f. & cert. ef. 8-14-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 10-1994, f. & cert. ef. 5-4-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 5-1993, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-93, Renumbered from 340-061-0030 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 26-1981, f. & ef. 9-8-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 41, f. 4-5-72, ef. 4-15-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
