



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY 
 125-035-0040 
 Fair and Equitable Distribution 
 
 The SASP shall make Federal surplus property available to eligible donees in the state on a fair and equitable basis.  (1)(a) The distribution of Federal surplus property shall be based on the SASP’s determination of relative needs, resources and ability to utilize the property. Factors to be considered in determining relative needs of the donee program:  (A) Size and type of program conducted by each prospective donee;  (B) Contemplated use and frequency of use by each prospective donee;  (C) Economic condition of the prospective donee activity or institution;  (D) The prospective donee’s critical or urgent need for the property;  (E) Interest in and expression of need for the available property by the donee;  (b) Ability to utilize:  (A) Length of time in contemplated usage and frequency of use;  (B) When the item can be put to use;  (C) Availability of funds to repair or maintain property;  (D) Ability of the donee to select and remove property from the federal activity of distribution center on a timely basis;  (E) Type and quantity of property received by the donee to date.  (2)(a) The SASP operates a distribution center to service the eligible donees in the distribution of available Federal surplus property. To insure that eligible donees located a greater distance from the distribution center are treated equitably, a “Want List” system shall be maintained that aims for direct shipment of allocated items from the Federal holding agencies to the donee’s intended place of use. Donees are encouraged to submit a list of major items needed such as vehicles, construction equipment, materials handling equipment, machine tools, generators, air compressors, business machines, boats, aircraft, large electronic and scientific type items, etc. SASP employees shall be guided by these requests in their search and selection of allocable Federal surplus property. Items listed on a “Want List” shall be distributed to eligible donees on the basis of need, resources and ability to utilize the property as outlined in section (1) of this rule. Small miscellaneous items shall be available from the distribution center which shall be open seven hours per day five days a week;  (b) Miscellaneous items shall be available on a supermarket plan, with quantity limited to any one donee depending upon the total quantity on hand.  (3) The SASP shall recommend to General Services Administration the certification of donee screeners as are qualified and needed in accordance with FPMR 101-44.116. The SASP shall, insofar as practical, select that Federal surplus property requested by the donees and arrange for direct pickup or shipment of the property to the donee, if requested to do so.  (4) Donees which suffer or experience a local disaster and/or loss of donee property due to fire, flood, tornado, or other casualty, shall be given a temporary priority for all requested items of Federal surplus property. Special efforts will be made by the SASP to locate and distribute property needed by donees which have suffered casualty losses.  (5) Where competing requests are received for Federal surplus property items, SASP shall make a determination as to the donee based on the evaluation of the criteria in section (1) of this rule.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279 & 283 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 1-1994, f. & cert. ef. 11-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 3-1984, f. 6-29-84, ef. 6-30-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
