



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 240 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, ALTERATION, CONVERSION AND ABANDONMENT OF MONITORING WELLS, GEOTECHNICAL HOLES AND OTHER HOLES IN OREGON 
 690-240-0049 
 Reporting Requirements 
 
 (1) The professional responsible for construction of the ground source heat pump boring(s) shall prepare a complete and certified boring log for each ground source heat pump boring.  (2) Boring logs shall be prepared in triplicate; an original and two copies. The original shall be submitted to the Department and contain a site map showing the location of each ground source heat pump boring. One copy shall be retained by the professional responsible for construction of the ground source heat pump boring and the second copy shall be provided to the customer/landowner who contracted for the construction of the ground source heat pump boring.  (3) The Professional shall file the boring log with the Department within 30 days after the completion of the ground source heat pump boring.  (4) The boring log required in section (2) of this rule shall be recorded on a form provided or previously approved in writing by the Department. The form shall include, as a minimum, the following:  (a) Name and Address of Landowner;  (b) Start/Completion date;  (c) Location of the boring by county, Township, Range, Section, tax lot number, if assigned, street address, or nearest address, and either the 1/4, 1/4 section or Latitude and Longitude as established by a global positioning system (GPS);  (d) A description and depth of each change of formation;  (e) Total depth and diameter of the completed closed loop heat pump boring  (f) Depth of the surface seal, if any;  (g) The nominal diameter and depth of the casing, if any;  (h) The type and amount of grout material used;  (i) The type of grout additives used;  (j) The depth the borehole is grouted to; and  (k) Such additional information as required by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027 & 537.780 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-2012, f. & cert. ef. 2-2-12 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
