



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 FOREST ACTIVITIES 
 437-007-0140 
 Training 
 
 The employer or their authorized representative must:  (1) Provide job safety and health instruction and training to current and new employees, including supervisors, that is adequate for the work task. They must receive training before:  (a) Starting their initial work assignment; or  (b) Being assigned new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines, or vehicles.  (2) Evaluate each employee who has previously received job safety and health instruction and training.  NOTE: An employee does not need to be retrained if their prior instruction and training are adequate.  (3) Provide job safety and health instruction and training that includes the:  (a) Safe performance of assigned work tasks.  (b) Procedures, practices and requirements of the employer's work site.  (c) Recognition of safety and health hazards associated with each employee's specific work tasks, including measures and work practices to prevent or control those hazards.  (d) Safe use, operation and maintenance of tools, equipment, machines and vehicles each employee uses or operates, including following the manufacturer's operating and maintenance instructions, warnings and precautions.  (e) Requirements of this standard and hazards of the industry.  (4) Require each employee receiving job safety and health instruction and training to:  (a) Work under the close supervision of a qualified person.  (b) Demonstrate to the employer or his authorized representative the ability to safely perform the work assignment before they are permitted to work independently.  (5) Assure that a qualified person(s) presents the job safety and health instruction and training.  (6) Assure that job safety and health instruction and training is:  (a) Presented in a language and manner that the employee(s) is able to understand.  (b) Appropriate in content for the skill level of the employee(s) being trained.  (7) Keep a current written record of job safety and health instruction and training for each employee that contains the following:  (a) Who was instructed or trained.  (b) The date(s) of the instruction or training.  (c) A description of the training.  (d) The name of the trainer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 5-2003, f. 6-2-03, cert. ef. 12-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
