



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 330 POLICY 
 413-330-0940 
 Types of Service 
 
 (1) The Department uses an SOC short-form contract with a traditional contractor for such services as the following:  (a) Housing and food services — including housing deposits, utilities, home repairs, food, household necessities, cleaning services, supplies, and equipment.  (b) Transportation — including transportation for visitation, bus passes, other fares, automobile repair, and reimbursement when the family is transported by a community or family member.  (c) Assessment, testing, and evaluations — including psychiatric, psychological, psycho-social, behavioral, developmental, medical, or educational services not available through other resources such as other programs operated by the Department or from a school district.  (d) Therapeutic and rehabilitative services — including family, group, and individual therapy (including drug and alcohol treatment services) not available through other sources, such as from other programs operated by the Department or from family-based service contracts, including intensive family services (IFS), and family sex abuse treatment (FSAT), and parent training.  (e) Skills training and support — including parent coaching, mentoring, psycho-social skills training and support, shadowing or one-on-one supervision, and support of daily activities, transition support services, sub-care or in-home behavior support or management, and educational services not available through other programs operated by the Department or from a school districts.  (f) Support services for care givers — including time-limited services for parents, foster parents, and relative care takers not provided by other sources.  (g) Well-being and developmental needs — including expenses related to school or recreational activities, such as fees for sports, camps, school trips, music, arts, and other activities, and activities related to a child’s traditional or cultural needs or developmental milestones.  (2) The nontraditional contractor is a contractor chosen for his or her unique capacity to connect with the child based on the specific strengths and needs of the child as identified in the strengths-and-needs-based service planning process. The nontraditional contractor focuses on working with the family in addressing the specific strengths and needs of the child. The nontraditional contractor gives special care to planning activities that can eventually be maintained without the contractor’s involvement. A short-form contract can be used with a nontraditional contractor only for the following services:  (a) Individual Mentoring: Social, behavioral, and recreational skill development. Assisting the child in exploring special talents or interests, arranging for on-going social or recreational opportunities, and modeling appropriate interaction with others with special care given to planning activities that can eventually be maintained without the mentor.  (b) Family Mentoring: Engagement of families for parenting skill development, including modeling appropriate interactions with children in the home, effective problem-solving, establishment of routines, and assisting with development of natural helping systems to enable the family to function independently with success.  (c) Individual Tutoring: Educational support services tailored specifically to the needs of the child. This assistance should be offered when the child's developmental functioning is significantly compromised without tutoring and is not obtainable through an Individual Education Plan (IEP) or any other appropriate resource.  (d) Developmental Support: Chosen activities requiring adult supervision at all times to meet the child's identified developmental needs or milestones.  (e) Therapeutic Visitation: Visitation services to address the child's needs and encompass specific therapeutic goals. The contractor, if not licensed, must obtain supervision from a licensed therapist, at his or her own expense, for consultation and feedback on the therapeutic process and progress of the visitation.  (3) The Department’s worker must enter the System of Care Service Codes, Open Reasons, and Disposition in the Department’s Integrated Information System (IIS), including the person letter for the parents and children who benefit from or participate in the authorized service. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279.727 & 279.729 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 11-2004, f. & cert. ef. 6-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 50-2003(Temp), f. 12-31-03, cert. ef. 1-1-04 thru 6-28-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SOSCF 5-2001, f. & cert. ef. 2-26-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 SOSCF 21-2000(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 8-31-00 thru 2-26-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
