



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 UNIVERSALLY OFFERED NEWBORN NURSE HOME VISITING PROGRAM 
 333-006-0050 
 Community Lead Services Requirements 
 
 (1) Community leads must: 

 (a) Implement a universally offered newborn nurse home visiting services model that has been reviewed by the Administration for Children and Families to meet the U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) criteria for an evidence-based early childhood home visiting service delivery model. 

 (b) Coordinate with all certified providers in its identified community to implement strategies for promoting health equity, focusing on eliminating barriers that prevent families from accessing or fully benefiting from services. 

 (c) Coordinate with all certified providers in its identified community so that all families with newborns are contacted no later than two weeks after birth of the newborn and offered services, to the greatest extent possible. 

 (d) Develop and implement strategies in collaboration with the Oregon Health Authority (Authority) to obtain funding to facilitate the provision of newborn nurse home visiting services. 

 (e) Collaborate with other home visiting and medical providers (for example, hospitals, clinics) to integrate newborn nurse home visiting services into the existing services for families in the identified community so that a coordinated system of support is in place. 

 (f) Maintain a written plan describing how the community lead will comply with subsections (a) through (e) of this section. 

 (2) Community leads shall maintain, and consider input from, an advisory board that: 

 (a) Includes partners from the identified community with representation from the following where applicable: parents, medical providers, hospitals, social service providers serving families, Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), child protective services, early learning hub, Tribal leadership, local public health authority (LPHA), Coordinated Care Organizations, insurers that offer health benefit plans, community partners including culturally-specific organizations, newborn nurse home visiting services providers and other home visiting providers. 

 (b) Meets at least quarterly and distributes meeting minutes to board members and certified providers in the identified community. 

 (3) Community leads shall assure local community resources are compiled in a web-based format or printed directory and updated at least quarterly for use by certified providers. 

 (4) Community leads shall engage in quality assurance activities that include: 

 (a) A monthly review of data including key performance indicators such as scheduling rate, comprehensive newborn nurse home visit completion rate, follow-up rate, demographic profile of families receiving services, community connections and referrals in the identified community. 

 (b) A monthly review of feedback from the families served by the newborn nurse home visiting program in the identified community using standardized methodology. 

 (c) Monitoring program reach in the identified community measured by the ratio of number of completed comprehensive newborn nurse home visits to total births in the identified community taking into consideration the number of births served by other home visiting providers. 

 (5) Community leads shall provide the Authority access to data for program monitoring and evaluation in a manner and format designated by the Authority. 

 (6) Community leads shall work with the Authority to address quality improvement needs. 

 (7) Community leads shall submit de-identified data electronically to the Authority in a manner and format designated by the Authority upon request. This data may include: 

 (a) The number of infants born during the previous quarter who reside in the identified community; 

 (b) For each certified provider in the identified community: 

 (A) The scheduling rate; 

 (B) Comprehensive newborn nurse home visit completion rate; 

 (C) Follow-up rate; 

 (D) Demographic profile of families receiving newborn nurse home visits; 

 (E) Community connections and referrals; 

 (F) Feedback from families and referral partner feedback; and 

 (c) Any other data identified by the Authority. 

 (8) Community leads shall collaborate and coordinate with Tribes designated as community leads operating in the same geographic area. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & ORS 433.301 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.301 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 116-2024, amend filed 12/13/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 165-2022, amend filed 07/29/2022, effective 07/29/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 75-2020, adopt filed 10/27/2020, effective 10/27/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
