



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 105 RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL RADIOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS 
 333-105-0530 
 Radiation Safety Requirements: Training 
 
 (1) The licensee may not permit any individual to act as a radiographer until the individual:  (a) Has received training in the subjects outlined in section (7) of this rule, in addition to on the job training consisting of hands-on experience under the supervision of a radiographer and is certified through a radiographer certification program. . The on the job training must include a minimum of two months (320 hours) of active participation in the performance of industrial radiography utilizing radioactive material and/or one month (160 hours) of active participation in the performance of industrial radiography utilizing radiation machines. Individuals performing industrial radiography utilizing radioactive materials and radiation machines must complete both segments of the on the job training (3 months or 480 hours); or  (b) The licensee may, until July 1, 2003, allow an individual who has not met the requirements of subsection (1)(a) of this rule, to act as a radiographer after the individual has received at least 40 hours of training in the subjects outlined in section (7) of this rule and demonstrated an understanding of these subjects by successful completion of a written examination that was previously submitted to and approved by the Authority, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or another Agreement State, in addition to on the job training consisting of hands-on experience under the supervision of a radiographer. The on the job training must include a minimum of two months (320 hours) of active participation in the performance of industrial radiography utilizing radioactive material and/or one month (160 hours) of active participation in the performance of industrial radiography utilizing radiation machines. Individuals performing industrial radiography utilizing radioactive materials and radiation machines must complete both segments of the on the job training (3 months or 480 hours).  (2) In addition, the licensee may not permit any individual to act as a radiographer until the individual:  (a) Has received copies of and instruction in the requirements described in the rules contained in this division, and applicable sections of divisions 120, 111, and 118 of these rules, in the license or registration under which the radiographer will perform industrial radiography, and the licensee's operating and emergency procedures;  (b) Has demonstrated an understanding of items in subsection (2)(a) of this rule by successful completion of a written or oral examination;  (c) Has received training in the use of the licensee's radiographic exposure devices, sealed sources, in the daily inspection of devices and associated equipment, and in the use of radiation survey instruments; and  (d) Has demonstrated understanding of the use of the equipment described in subsection (2)(c) of this rule by successful completion of a practical examination.  (3) The licensee may not permit any individual to act as a radiographer's assistant until the individual:  (a) Has received copies of and instruction in the requirements described in the rules contained in this, and applicable sections of divisions 120, 111, and 118 of these regulation, in the license or registration under which the radiographer's assistant will perform industrial radiography, and the licensee's operating and emergency procedures;  (b) Has demonstrated an understanding of items in subsection (3)(a) of this rule by successful completion of a written or oral examination;  (c) Under the personal supervision of a radiographer, has received training in the use of the licensee's radiographic exposure devices and sealed sources, in the daily inspection of devices and associated equipment, and in the use of radiation survey instruments; and  (d) Has demonstrated understanding of the use of the equipment described in subsection (3)(c) of this rule by successful completion of a practical examination.  (4) The licensee must provide annual refresher safety training, as defined in OAR 333-105-0005, for each radiographer and radiographer's assistant at intervals not to exceed 12 months.  (5) Except as provided in subsection (5)(d) of this rule, the radiation safety officer or designee must conduct an inspection program of the job performance of each radiographer and radiographer's assistant to ensure that the Authority's rules, license requirements, and operating and emergency procedures are followed. The inspection program must:  (a) Include observation of the performance of each radiographer and radiographer's assistant during an actual industrial radiographic operation, at intervals not to exceed six months; and  (b) Provide that, if a radiographer or a radiographer's assistant has not participated in an industrial radiographic operation for more than six months since the last inspection, the radiographer must demonstrate knowledge of the training requirements of subsection (2)(c) of this rule and the radiographer's assistant must demonstrate knowledge of the training requirements of subsection (3)(c) of this rule by a practical examination before these individuals can next participate in a radiographic operation.  (c) The Authority may consider alternatives in those situations where the individual serves as both radiographer and radiation safety officer.  (d) In those operations where a single individual serves as both radiographer and radiation safety officer, and performs all radiography operations, an inspection program is not required.  (6) The licensee must maintain records of the above training to include certification documents, written, oral and practical examinations, refresher safety training and inspections of job performance in accordance with OAR 333-105-0680.  (7) The licensee must include the following subjects required in section (1) of this rule:  (a) Fundamentals of radiation safety including:  (A) Characteristics of gamma and x-radiation;  (B) Units of radiation dose and quantity of radioactivity;  (C) Hazards of exposure to radiation;  (D) Levels of radiation from sources of radiation; and  (E) Methods of controlling radiation dose (time, distance, and shielding);  (b) Radiation detection instruments including:  (A) Use, operation, calibration, and limitations of radiation survey instruments;  (B) Survey techniques; and  (C) Use of personnel monitoring equipment;  (c) Equipment to be used including:  (A) Operation and control of radiographic exposure equipment, remote handling equipment, and storage containers, including pictures or models of source assemblies (pigtails);  (B) Operation and control of radiation machines;  (C) Storage, control, and disposal of sources of radiation; and  (D) Inspection and maintenance of equipment.  (d) The requirements of pertinent state and federal rules; and  (e) Case histories of accidents in radiography.  (8) Licensees will have one year from the effective date of this rule to comply with the additional training requirements specified in subsections (2)(a) and (3)(a) of this rule.  [ED. NOTE: Appendices referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.635 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 10-2011, f. 9-30-11, cert. ef. 10-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2007, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2006, f. & cert. ef. 6-16-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 36-2004, f. & cert. ef. 12-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 31-2004(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-8-04 thru 4-5-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 3-2003, f. & cert. ef. 3-27-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
