



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 720 CREDIT UNIONS 
 441-720-0310 
 Board of Directors and Management Responsibilities
 
 
 Prior to engaging in commercial lending, a credit union must address the following board responsibilities and operational requirements: 

 (1) Board of directors. A credit union’s board of directors, at a minimum, must: 

 (a) Approve a commercial loan policy that complies with OAR 441-720-0315. The board must review its policy on an annual basis, prior to any material change in the credit union's commercial lending program or related organizational structure, and in response to any material change in portfolio performance or economic conditions, and update it when warranted. 

 (b) Ensure the credit union appropriately staffs its commercial lending program in compliance with paragraph (2)(b) of this section. 

 (c) Understand and remain informed, through periodic briefings from responsible staff and other methods, about the nature and level of risk in the credit union’s commercial loan portfolio, including its potential impact on the credit union’s earnings and net worth. 

 (2) Required expertise and experience. A credit union making, purchasing, or holding any commercial loan must internally possess the following experience and competencies: 

 (a) Senior executive officers. A credit union’s senior executive officers overseeing the commercial lending function must understand the credit union’s commercial lending activities. At a minimum, senior executive officers must have a comprehensive understanding of the role of commercial lending in the credit union’s overall business model and establish risk management processes and controls necessary to safely conduct commercial lending. 

 (b) Qualified lending personnel. A credit union must employ qualified staff with experience in the following areas: 

 (A) Underwriting and processing for the type(s) of commercial lending in which the credit union is engaged; 

 (B) Overseeing and evaluating the performance of a commercial loan portfolio, including rating and quantifying risk through a credit risk rating system; and 

 (C) Conducting collection and loss mitigation activities for the type(s) of commercial lending in which the credit union is engaged. 

 (c) Options to meet the required experience. A credit union may meet the experience requirements in paragraphs (2)(a) and (b) of this section by conducting internal training and development, hiring qualified individuals, or using a third-party, such as an independent contractor or a credit union service organization; however, with respect to the qualified lending personnel requirements in paragraph (2)(b) of this section, use of a third-party is permissible only if the following conditions are met: 

 (A) The third-party has no affiliation or contractual relationship with the borrower or any associated borrowers; 

 (B) The actual decision to grant a loan must reside with the credit union; 

 (C) Qualified credit union staff exercises ongoing oversight over the third-party by regularly evaluating the quality of any work the third party performs for the credit union; and 

 (D) The third-party arrangement must otherwise comply with OAR 441-720-0370. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 723.102 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 723.152, 723.156 & 723.512 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FSR 1-2022, amend filed 05/18/2022, effective 06/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 2-2002, f. & cert. ef. 8-27-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
