



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Patient Safety Commission 
 Chapter 325 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 EARLY DISCUSSION AND RESOLUTION 
 325-035-0045 
 The Role of the Administrative Entity 
 
 (1) The Commission shall use notices of adverse health care incidents to:  (a) Establish quality improvement techniques to reduce patient care errors that contribute to adverse health care incidents;  (b) Develop evidence-based prevention practices to improve patient outcomes and disseminate information about those practices; and  (c) Upon the request of a health care facility or health care provider, assist the facility or provider in reducing the frequency of a particular adverse health care incident, including, but not limited to, determining the underlying cause of the incident and providing advice regarding preventing reoccurrence of the incident.  (2) The Commission may disseminate information relating to a notice of adverse health care incident to the public and to health care providers and health care facilities not involved in the incident as necessary to meet the goals described in section 1 of this rule. Information disclosed must not identify a health care facility, health care provider or patient involved in the adverse health care incident.  (3) The Commission may not disclose any information provided pursuant to a discussion under Oregon Laws 2013, Chapter 5, Section 3 to a regulatory agency or licensing board.  (4) The Commission may use and disclose information provided pursuant to a discussion under Oregon Laws 2013, Chapter 5, Section 3 as necessary to assist a health care facility or health care provider involved in an adverse health care incident in determining the cause of and potential mitigation of the incident. If the Commission discloses information under this section to a person not involved in the incident, the information may not identify a health care facility, health care provider or patient involved in the incident.  (5) The Commission will periodically disseminate aggregate information about incidents reported in notices and what has been learned about successful resolution. Additional information may be disseminated depending on data available. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  Oregon Law 2013, Ch. 5 & Sec. 9 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Oregon Law 2013, Ch. 5, Secs. 9 & 10 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSC 2-2014, f. 6-12-14, cert. ef. 7-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
