



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS UNABLE TO MEET TPR REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE HIGHWAYS 
 731-017-0045 
 Commission Review and Decision on Applications 
 
 (1) Within 45 days following receipt of the Director’s report, the Commission shall review the Director’s report and issue a written decision approving or denying the application. Commission approval or denial of an application shall be accompanied by findings of fact and a statement of reasons explaining how the decision relates to the applicable review standards. If a public hearing is required on the application, the Commission shall schedule the public hearing and allow for the required public review period. The Commission may approve up to four applications in each ODOT Region in a calendar year. The Commission may attach such conditions to its approval as it deems necessary or appropriate to protect the function or ensure the safe operation of state highways or to protect the state’s substantial financial investment in its state highway system.  (2) Once the Commission has approved four applications within an ODOT Region within a calendar year, it may continue its consideration of one or more applications within that ODOT Region to the following calendar year. Continuation of an application to the following calendar year shall not imply any preference or priority for that application.  (3) A Commission decision to approve an application shall be conditioned to limit the allowed uses on the property that is the subject of the proposed amendment to only those uses specifically identified in the proposed economic development project. A local government may achieve this result through application of a limited use overlay zone, the creation of a new zoning district, or other similar method.  (4) A Commission decision to approve an application to adjust traffic performance measures or allow use of alternative traffic performance measures other than a volume to capacity ratio shall be conditioned to apply only to the facility impact area that is the subject of the proposed local government amendment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 367.850 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 367.850 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 3-2010, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
