



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 122 DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT, PROSTHETIC ORTHOTICS AND SUPPLIES (DMEPOS) 
 410-122-0330 
 Power-Operated Vehicle
 
 
 (1) Indications and limitations of coverage and medical appropriateness:  

 (a) The Division may cover a power-operated vehicle (POV) when conditions of coverage in OAR 410-122-0080 and all of the following criteria are met:  

 (A) The client has a mobility limitation that significantly impairs their ability to participate in one or more mobility-related activities of daily living (MRADLs) in or out of the home. MRADLs include but are not limited to tasks such as toileting, feeding, dressing, grooming, and bathing. A mobility limitation is one that:  

 (i) Prevents the client from accomplishing an MRADL entirely; or  

 (ii) Places the client at reasonably determined heightened risk of morbidity or mortality secondary to attempts to perform an MRADL; or  

 (iii) Prevents the client from completing an MRADL within a reasonable time frame.  

 (B) An appropriately fitted cane or walker cannot resolve the client’s mobility limitation;  

 (C) The client does not have sufficient upper extremity function to self-propel an optimally-configured manual wheelchair to perform MRADLs during a typical day:  

 (i) Assessment of upper extremity function shall consider limitations of strength, endurance, range of motion, or coordination, presence of pain, and deformity or absence of one or both upper extremities;  

 (ii) An optimally-configured manual wheelchair features an appropriate wheelbase, device weight, seating options, and other appropriate non-powered accessories.  

 (D) The client has sufficient strength, postural stability, or other physical or mental capabilities needed to safely operate a POV;  

 (E) If the client shall be using the POV in the home, the client’s home provides adequate maneuvering space, maneuvering surfaces, and access between rooms for the operation of the POV being requested. The Division does not reimburse for adapting living quarters;  

 (F) The client is able to:  

 (i) Safely transfer to and from the POV;  

 (ii) Operate the tiller steering system, and  

 (iii) Maintain postural stability and position while operating the POV.  

 (G) Use of a POV shall significantly improve the client’s ability to participate in their MRADLs;  

 (H) The client is willing to use the requested POV on a regular basis;  

 (I) The Division does not cover services or upgrades that primarily allow performance of leisure or recreational activities. Such services include but are not limited to backup POVs, backpacks, accessory bags, awnings, additional positioning equipment if the POV meets the same need, custom colors, and wheelchair gloves.  

 (b) For a POV to be covered, the treating practitioner or nurse practitioner must conduct a face-to-face examination of the client within six (6) months before writing the order, and that visit with the treating practitioner starts the six (6) month timeline;  

 (A) The treating practitioner’s face-to-face examination can be performed during a hospital or nursing facility stay; however, the visit must be conducted within six (6) months prior to writing the order;  

 (B) The practitioner may refer the client to a licensed/certified medical professional, such as a physical therapist (PT) or occupational therapist (OT), to perform part of this face-to-face examination. This person may not be an employee of the DMEPOS provider or have any direct or indirect financial relationship, agreement, or contract with the DMEPOS provider. When the DMEPOS provider is owned by a hospital, a PT/OT working in the inpatient or outpatient hospital setting may perform part of the face-to-face examination:  

 (i) If the client was referred to the PT/OT before being seen by the practitioner, then once the practitioner has received and reviewed the written report of this examination, the practitioner must see the client and perform any additional examination that is needed. The practitioner’s report of the visit shall state concurrence or any disagreement with the PT/OT examination and must occur within the six (6) month timeframe; 

 (ii) If the practitioner examined the client before referring the client to a PT/OT, then again in person after receiving the report of the PT/OT examination, it is also acceptable for the practitioner to review the written report of the PT/OT examination, to sign and date that report, and to state concurrence or any disagreement with that examination. In this situation, the practitioner must send a copy of the note from his initial visit to evaluate the client plus the annotated, signed, and dated copy of the PT/OT examination to the DMEPOS provider;  

 (iii) If the POV is a replacement of a similar item that was previously covered by the Division or when only POV accessories are being ordered and all other coverage criteria in this rule are met, a face-to-face examination is not required.  

 (2) The Division does not consider the following services medically necessary or medically appropriate:  

 (a) POV for clients who are able to ambulate with the help of assistive equipment or independently able to self-propel an optimally-configured manual wheelchair;  

 (b) A POV used to replace private or public transportation such as an automobile, bus, or taxi;  

 (c) If a POV is covered, a manual or power wheelchair provided at the same time or subsequently shall be considered for denial as not medically appropriate;  

 (3) Coding guidelines:  

 (a) Group 1 POVs (K0800 — K0802) are typically used only inside the home;  

 (b) Group 2 POVs (K0806 –K0808) have added capabilities not needed for in home use. Client specific clinical documentation must be submitted that supports the medical need for this level of POV and demonstrates that there is no equally effective, less costly alternative that meets the client’s medical needs;  

 (c) A replacement item including but not limited to replacement batteries shall be requested using the specific wheelchair option or accessory code if one exists (see 410-122-0340, Wheelchairs Options/Accessories). If a specific code does not exist, use code K0108 (wheelchair component or accessory, not otherwise specified);  

 (d) For guidance on correct coding, DMEPOS providers shall contact the Pricing, Data Analysis and Coding (PDAC) Contractor by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. See 410-122-0180 Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) Level II Coding for more information.  

 (4) Prior Authorization (PA): Submit all of the following documentation with the PA request:  

 (a) A copy of the written report of the face-to-face examination of the client by the practitioner: 

 (A) The report must include information related to the following:  

 (i) The client’s mobility limitation and how it interferes with the performance of activities of daily living;  

 (ii) Why a cane or walker cannot sufficiently resolve the client’s mobility limitations;  

 (iii) Why a manual wheelchair cannot sufficiently resolve the client’s mobility limitations;  

 (iv) The client’s physical and mental abilities to operate a POV (scooter):  

 (I) Besides a mobility limitation, if other conditions exist that limit a client’s ability to participate in MRADLs, how these conditions shall be ameliorated or compensated;  

 (II) How these other conditions shall be ameliorated or compensated sufficiently such that the additional provision of   POV shall be reasonably expected to significantly improve the client’s ability to perform or obtain assistance to participate in MRADLs.  

 (B) The face-to-face examination shall provide pertinent information about the following elements but may include other details. Only relevant elements need to be addressed:  

 (i) Symptoms;  

 (ii) Related diagnoses;  

 (iii) History:  

 (I) How long the condition has been present;  

 (II) Clinical progression;  

 (III) Interventions that have been tried and the results;  

 (IV) Past use of walker, manual wheelchair, POV, or power wheelchair and the results;  

 (iv) Physical exam:  

 (I) Weight;  

 (II) Impairment of strength, range of motion, sensation, or coordination of arms and legs;  

 (III) Presence of abnormal tone or deformity of arms, legs, or trunk;  

 (IV) Neck, trunk, and pelvic posture and flexibility;  

 (V) Sitting and standing balance.  

 (v) Functional assessment indicating any problems with performing the following activities including the need to use a cane, walker, or the assistance of another person:  

 (I) Transferring between a bed, chair, and power mobility device;  

 (II) Walking around their home or community including information on distance walked, speed, and balance.  

 (b) The practitioner’s written order, received by the DMEPOS provider within thirty (30) days after the practitioner’s face-to-face examination that includes all of the following elements:  

 (A) Client’s name;  

 (B) Description of the item that is ordered. This may be general (e.g., “POV” or “power mobility device”) or may be more specific:  

 (i) If this order does not identify the specific type of POV that is being requested, the DMEPOS provider must clarify this by obtaining another written order that lists the specific POV that is being ordered and any options and accessories requested;  

 (ii) The items on this order may be entered by the DMEPOS provider. This subsequent order must be signed and dated by the treating practitioner, received by the DMEPOS provider, and submitted to the authorizing authority, but does not have to be received within 45 days following the face-to-face examination.  

 (C) Most significant ICD-10 diagnosis code that relates specifically to the need for the POV;  

 (D) Length of need;  

 (E) Practitioner’s signature;  

 (F) Date of practitioner’s signature.  

 (c) For all requested equipment and accessories, include the manufacturer’s name, product name, model number, standard features, specifications, dimensions, and options;  

 (d) Detailed information about client-owned equipment (including serial numbers) as well as any other equipment being used or available to meet the client’s medical needs, including the age of the equipment and why it cannot be grown (expanded) or modified, if applicable;  

 (e) A written evaluation of the client’s living quarters performed by the DMEPOS provider. This assessment must support that the client’s home can accommodate and allow for the effective use of a POV, including but is not limited to evaluation of door widths, counter/table height, accessibility (e.g., ramps), electrical service, etc.;  

 (f) All HCPCS to be billed on this claim (both codes that require authorization and those that do not require authorization);  

 (g) Any additional documentation that supports indications of coverage are met as specified in this rule;  

 (h) The above documentation must be kept on file by the DMEPOS provider;  

 (5) Reimbursement:  

 (a) Codes specified in this rule shall not be reimbursed for clients residing in nursing facilities;   

 (b) If a client has a medically appropriate POV regardless of payer, the Division shall not reimburse for another POV;  

 (c) The cost of the POV includes all options and accessories that are provided at the time of initial purchase, including but not limited to batteries, battery chargers, weight appropriate upholstery and seating system, tiller steering, non-expandable controller with proportional response to input, complete set of tires, and all accessories needed for safe operation;  

 (d) Reimbursement for the POV includes all labor charges involved in the assembly of the POV and all covered additions or modifications. Reimbursement also includes support services such as emergency services, delivery, set-up, pick-up and delivery for repairs/modifications, education, and on-going assistance with use of the POV;  

 (e) If a client-owned POV meets coverage criteria, medically appropriate replacement items including but not limited to batteries may be covered;  

 (f) The Division may cover a new POV when a client’s existing POV is no longer medically appropriate or repair and modifications to the POV exceed replacement costs;  

 (g) The Division shall cover one month’s rental of a POV if a client-owned POV is being repaired;  

 (h) The Division shall purchase, rent, and repair;  

 (A) Rental charges apply toward purchase;  

 (B) Item is considered purchased when the Division fee schedule purchase price or the actual charge from the provider is met, whichever is less.  

 (6) Documentation:   

 (a) For services requiring prior authorization, submit documentation that supports coverage criteria in this rule are met;  

 (b) Documentation that the coverage criteria have been met must be present in the client’s medical record. This documentation and any additional medical information from the DMEPOS provider must be made available to the Division upon request.  

 (7) Procedure Codes:  

 (a) K0800 Power operated vehicle, Group 1 standard, patient weight capacity up to and including 300 pounds — PA;  

 (b) K0801 Power operated vehicle, Group 1 heavy duty, patient weight capacity, 301 to 450 pounds — PA;  

 (c) K0802 Power operated vehicle, Group 1 very heavy duty, patient weight capacity, 451 to 600 pounds — PA.  

 (d) K0806 Power operated vehicle, Group 2 standard, patient weight capacity up to and including 300 pounds — PA  

 (e) K0807 Power operated vehicle, Group 2 heavy-duty, patient weight capacity 301 to 450 pounds — PA  

 (f) K0808 Power operated vehicle, Group 2 very heavy-duty, patient weight capacity 451 to 600 pounds — PA  

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 414.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 87-2025, amend filed 12/09/2025, effective 12/09/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 101-2023, amend filed 12/29/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 12-2018, amend filed 03/07/2018, effective 03/08/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 36-2017(Temp), f. 9-14-17, cert. ef. 9-15-17 thru 3-13-18 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 51-2015, f. 9-22-15, cert. ef. 10-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 37-2008, f. 12-11-08, cert. ef. 1-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 15-2007, f. 12-5-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 12-2007, f. 6-29-07, cert. ef. 7-1-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 25-2006, f. 6-14-06, cert. ef. 7-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 44-2004, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 47-2002, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 8-2002, f. & cert. ef. 4-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 32-2001, f. 9-24-01, cert. ef. 10-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 37-2000, f. 9-29-00, cert. ef. 10-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
