



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 95 LEAD HAZARDS 
 333-095-0000 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in OAR 333-095-0000 through 333-095-0030, unless the context requires otherwise:  (1) “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Oregon Public Health Division or any authorized representative. Authorized representatives include employees of the Public Health Division and employees of the affected county health agency having jurisdiction.  (2) “Division” means the Public Health Division of the Oregon Health Authority.  (3) “Dwelling” means any enclosed space that is wholly or partially used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes by humans, and includes all grounds and other buildings on the affected property.  (4) “Imminent Hazard” means a condition or combination of conditions such that a person or persons are potentially exposed to lead containing materials that are likely to cause acute illness or serious impairment.  (5) “Inspection” means an on-site investigation that may include visual observations, interviews with persons, technical tests and measurements, documentation of conditions, taking of photographs, and collection of samples for testing elsewhere.  (6) “Lead Hazard” means any condition or combination of conditions in which metallic lead, combined lead or ionic lead is present in or around a dwelling and could potentially be inhaled or ingested by persons.  (7) “Owner” and “Operator” mean any person or persons who jointly or severally hold legal title to or are purchasing any dwelling or premise on contract; or who are responsible for the care or control of any dwelling or premise as owner, agent of the owner, executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian. For purposes of public ownership, “owner” is defined as the chief executive officer of the government entity which owns, leases or otherwise controls the property.  (8) “Person” means any individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation, or joint venture; and includes agencies of municipal, county, state and federal government.  (9) “Premise” or “Premises” means any dwelling or other place of habitation; school; care facility; public or governmental institution; or place of volunteer employment. Premises include the grounds and any other buildings associated with and used by the occupants. These rules do not include employee exposures or workplace conditions that effect only employees who are subject to Federal OSHA or Oregon OSHA jurisdiction.  (10) “Screening” means medical and administrative procedures by which the concentration of lead in the blood of persons is measured. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 431.110 - 431.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1993, f. & cert. ef. 2-12-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
