



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 SCHOOL GOVERNANCE AND STUDENT CONDUCT 
 581-021-0070 
 Expulsion 
 
 (1) Each district school board shall adopt written policies that limit the use of expulsion to the following circumstances:  (a) For conduct that poses a threat to the health or safety of students of school employees;  (b) When other strategies to change student conduct have been ineffective, except that expulsion may not be used to address truancy; or  (c) When the expulsion is required by law  (d) In addition to any limitations imposed by paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection, board policies must limit the use of expulsion for students in fifth grade or lower to the following circumstances:  (i) For nonaccidential conduct causing serious physical harm to a student or school employee;  (ii) When a school administrator determines, based upon the administrator’s observation or upon a report from a school employee, that the student’s conduct poses a direct threat to the health or safety of students or school employees;  (2) A school district board may expel, or delegate authority to a hearings officer to expel, a student provided the student is not expelled without a hearing unless the student's parent(s) or guardian, or the student, if 18 years of age, waives the right to a hearing. Waiver may take place by the parent or the student, if 18 years of age, notifying the school district in writing of waiver of the right to a hearing. Waiver may also take place by the parent, or the student, if age 18 or over, failing to appear after notice, at the place and time set for the hearing:  (a) If the school board acts to expel, the hearing may be conducted by a hearings officer designated by the board. In cases where the hearings officer is conducting the expulsion hearing for the board, the hearings officer shall provide to the board the findings as to the facts, the recommended decision and whether or not the student is guilty of the conduct alleged. This material shall be made available at the same time to the parent or guardian, and to the student, if age 18 or over;  (b) If the authority to expel a student is delegated to a hearings officer, the parent, or student, if age 18 or over, shall have the right upon appeal to a board review of the decision. If the decision is appealed to the board for review, the board shall be provided findings as to the facts and the decision of the hearings officer. This material shall be made available at the same time to the parent or guardian, and to the student, if age 18 or over. When appealed, the board will affirm, modify, or rescind the decision of the hearings officer.  (3) Student expulsion hearings shall be conducted pursuant to ORS 332.061.  (4) Expulsion hearing policies or rules shall contain provisions for the following:  (a) Notice to the student and to the parent or guardian shall be given by personal service or certified mail of the charge or charges and the specific facts that support the charge or charges. The notice shall include the statement of intent to consider the charges as reason for expulsion. Where notice is given by personal service, the person serving the notice shall file a return of service. Where notice is given by certified mail to a parent of a suspended student the notice shall be placed in the mail at least five days before the date of the hearing;  (b) Where the student or the student's parent cannot understand the spoken English language, an interpreter shall be provided by the district;  (c) The student may be represented by counsel or other persons;  (d) The student shall be permitted to introduce evidence by testimony, writings, or other exhibits;  (e) The student shall be permitted to be present and hear the evidence presented by the district;  (f) Strict rules of evidence shall not apply to the proceedings. However, this provision shall not limit the hearings officer's control of the hearing;  (g) The hearings officer or the student may make a record of the hearing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 339 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 339.240, 339.250 & 339.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 3-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-5-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1EB 262, f. 6-2-77, ef. 6-3-77 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1EB 230, f. & ef. 6-4-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1EB 212, f. 1-20-76, ef. 2-25-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 1EB 132, f. 5-19-72, ef. 6-1-72 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
