



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 APPEALS FROM COUNTY ORDINANCES 
 350-060-0150 
 Evidentiary Hearings 
 
 (1) Grounds for Hearing: The Commission may, upon written motion, conduct an evidentiary hearing in the case of disputed allegations in the parties’ briefs concerning standing, ex parte contacts or other procedural irregularities not shown in the record and which, if proved, would warrant reversal or remand of the decision. An evidentiary hearing may also be held upon motion or at the direction of the Commission to consider disputes regarding the content of the record or requests for stays.  (2) Motions for Hearings: A motion for an evidentiary hearing shall be filed at the Commission office and served on all parties at least 60 days in advance of oral argument, or less upon a demonstration of good cause. The motion shall contain a statement explaining with particularity what facts the moving party will present at the hearing and how those facts will affect the outcome of the review proceeding. Whenever possible such facts shall be presented by affidavit with the motion.  (3) Conduct of hearing:  (a) Insofar as the Commission finds it practical, the hearing shall be conducted in the following order:  (A) The moving party shall present its evidence including that of any witnesses;  (B) The other party(ies) shall have the opportunity to present evidence disputing that of the moving party;  (C) The moving party shall present rebuttal evidence;  (b) Any witness is subject to cross examination by opposing parties;  (c) Any member of the Commission may question any witness;  (d) The burden of presenting evidence in support of a fact or proposition rests on the proponent of the fact or proposition;  (e) The Commission may continue a hearing, and may set time limits for any hearing;  (f) Exhibits shall be marked to identify the party offering the exhibits. The exhibits shall be preserved by the Commission as part of the record.  (4) Evidentiary Rules:  (a) Evidence of a type commonly relied upon reasonably prudent person in conduct of their serious affairs shall be admissible.  (b) Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.  (c) All evidence not objected to, shall be received by the Commission, subject to the Commission’s power to exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious matter.  (d) Evidence objected to may be received by the Commission. Rulings on the admissibility of such evidence, if not made at the hearing, shall be made at or before the time a final order is issued.  (5) Prehearing Conference: The Commission, on its own motion or at the request of any party, may call a prehearing conference to consider:  (a) Simplification of the issues;  (b) The possibility of obtaining admissions of fact and documents which will avoid unnecessary proof;  (c) Limitation of the number of witnesses;  (d) The form and substance of any prehearing order;  (e) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the appeal.  (6) Proposed Prehearing Order: The Commission with or without a prehearing conference, may require that the parties prepare and sign a proposed prehearing order to be filed with the Commission on or before a date specified by the Commission. The order shall contain:  (a) A statement of contentions of law of each party;  (b) A concise statement of all contentions of fact to be proved by each party;  (c) A statement of all agreed facts;  (d) A list of witnesses and a summary of their testimony;  (e) A list of exhibits and a statement of the contents of each;  (f) Such other matters as the Commission may require in order to expedite the hearing and appeal.  (7) Effect on Time Limits: The filing of a motion for evidentiary hearing shall suspend the time limits for all other events in the review proceedings, including the issuance of the Commission’s final order. If the Commission grants an evidentiary hearing, the time limits for other events shall remain suspended until the close of the hearing. Unless the parties agree otherwise, the Commission shall schedule any evidentiary hearing after the order granting the motion for evidentiary hearing is issued. If the Commission denies a motion for an evidentiary hearing, the time for all other events will begin to run on the date the Commission issues its order denying the motion, or on such other date as is specified in that order.  (8) Depositions: On petition of any party at least 14 days before an evidentiary hearing, the Commission may order testimony of any witness to be taken by deposition in the same manner prescribed for depositions in civil actions. Depositions may also be taken by the use of audio or audio visual recordings. The petition for deposition shall set forth:  (a) The name and address of the witness whose testimony is desired;  (b) A showing of relevance and materiality of the testimony;  (c) A request for an order that the testimony of the witness be taken.  (9) Subpoenas: If the Commission orders an evidentiary hearing, the Commission shall issue subpoenas to any party to the appeal upon written request and upon a showing that the witness or the documents to be subpoenaed will provide relevant evidence. Subpoenas may also be issued under the signature of the attorney of record of a party. Witnesses appearing pursuant to subpoena, other than parties or employees of the Commission, shall be tendered fees and mileage as prescribed by law for witnesses in civil actions. The party requesting the subpoena shall be responsible for service of the subpoena and tendering the witness and mileage fees to the witness. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.150 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.150, RCW 43.97.015, 16 U.S.C. § 544c(b) & 16 U.S.C. § 544m(a)(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2003, f. 6-23-03, cert. ef. 8-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 2-1994, f. 5-4-94, cert. ef. 5-16-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
