



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 300 STATE AGENCY GENERAL RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-300-0045 
 Risk Management Records
 
 
 (1) Communicable Disease Contact Tracing Records : Series documents the movement of employees, volunteers, and visitors at government sponsored activities or government facilities, not otherwise covered by Visitor Logs, or liability waivers. Includes documentation for any disease for which there is a public health risk and need to track. Records may include screening information, sign-in sheets, contact information such as names and addresses, and related documentation. Note: Agencies may be required to transfer tracing data to Oregon Health Authority (OHA) or County Public Health departments in the event of an epidemic or pandemic. For records documenting individual cases of communicable disease among employees, see Employee Medical Records. Retention: (a) Retain logs involved in an active contact tracing event 30 days or until resolution of event, whichever is longer, destroy; (b) Retain all other logs 30 days, destroy. 

 (2) Emergency Response Plans and Procedures Records : Series documents the development, testing, implementation, and updating of agency plans and procedures for operations during and following an emergency or disaster. Records may include disaster preparedness and business resumption plans, procedures to follow in response to specific situations, and related documentation. Retention: Retain until superseded or obsolete, destroy. 

 (3) Employee Hazard Exposure Records : Series documents an employee’s exposure to hazardous conditions such as chemicals, toxic substances, blood-borne pathogens, biological agents, bacteria, viruses, fungi, radiation, noise, dust, heat, cold, vibration, repetitive motion, or other dangerous work-related conditions. Records may include hearing test records, radiation measurement records, blood test or other laboratory results, incident reports, first-aid records, X-rays, workstation air sampling reports, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Employee Medical Records. Retention: (a) Retain noise exposure measurement records 2 years (29 CFR 1910.95), destroy; (b) Retain audiometric test records until employee separation (29 CFR 1910.95), destroy; (c) Retain all other hazard exposure records 30 years after employee separation (29 CFR 1910.1020), destroy. 

 (4) Incident Report Records : Series documents employee or non-employee accident and injury incidents that occur in the workplace, regardless of whether the incident results in a claim. Records may include incident reports, occupational injury report and investigation records, employee identification and physical assessment forms, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Employee Hazard Exposure Records. Retention: (a) If incident results in a claim transfer to appropriate claim file; (b) If no claim results retain 10 years, destroy; (c) If incident involves employee hazard exposure retain 30 years after employee separation (29 CFR 1910.1020), destroy. 

 (5) Insurance Fund Claim Records : Series documents requests for payment of insurance claims from Department of Administrative Services Risk Management Division. Records may include Auto/Liability (Tort)/Property Claim Reports, estimates of repairs, accident reports, police reports, and related documentation. The Department of Administrative Services Risk Management Division maintains the statewide record copy. Retention: Retain 4 years after claim paid or denied, destroy. 

 (6) Occupational Injury and Illness Records : Series documents occupational injuries and illnesses which occur in the workplace and provides information required by the Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OR-OSHA). Records may include logs and summaries of recordable occupational injuries and illnesses, OSHA Form 200, supplementary records and OSHA Form 301, serious injury reports, injury cost reports, annual occupational injury and illness summaries and other surveys, and related documentation. Retention: Retain 5 years following the year to which they relate, destroy. 

 (7) Risk Factor Evaluation Records : Series documents the assessment of various risk factors for an agency and may also be used to identify hazards and risks for use in emergency preparedness and response planning. Records may include worksheets, annual Department of Administrative Services Risk Management Division reports and supplemental information, insurance coverage and premium data, restoration fund inventory reports, policy manuals, property transfer reports, self-insurance manuals, real property reports, money and negotiable securities reports, general risk surveys, and related documentation. Retention: Retain 4 years, destroy. 

 (8) Safety Compliance and Inspection Records : Series documents an agency’s compliance with state and local safety regulations, determined as a result of a complaint or through periodic safety inspections by OR-OSHA, State Fire Marshal, and other state or local agency inspectors. Records may include inspection reports on buildings (including inspections of fire alarm and security systems, elevators, and boilers), complaints, citations, notices of penalties, correction orders, follow-up actions, extension notices, variance records, and related documentation. Retention: Retain 10 years, destroy. 

 (9) Safety Program Records : Series documents an agency’s program to promote a safe work environment for its employees. Records may include safety policies, plans, and procedures, workplace safety committee records, reports on inspections conducted by the safety officer, evacuation rosters and reports, and related documentation. Retention: (a) Retain safety policies, plans, and procedures 5 years after superseded, destroy; (b) Retain inspection reports and workplace safety committee minutes, agendas, reports, evaluations, and recommendations 10 years, destroy; (c) Retain all other safety program records 5 years, destroy. 

 (10) State Accident Insurance Fund (SAIF) Claim Records : Series documents job-related injury and illness compensation claims made by agency employees to the State Accident Insurance Fund and the resulting claim disposition. Records may include injury reports (WCD Form 801), notices of claim acceptance or denial, determination orders, medical reports, notices of closure, employer’s payroll reports, agency’s copy of Workers Compensation Board hearing transcripts, Board Orders, claim disposition agreement documents, agency investigation reports, appeal letters, vocational rehabilitation records, legal documents, and related documentation. Retention: Retain 6 years after final disposition of claim, destroy. 

 (11) Vehicle Accident Records : Series documents accidents involving state-owned vehicles. Records may include state claim forms, photographs, accident reports, repair estimates, and related documentation. The Department of Administrative Services maintains the statewide record copy of the Claim Form. SEE ALSO: Insurance Fund Claim Records. Retention: Retain 4 years, destroy. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 2-2025, amend filed 05/29/2025, effective 05/29/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 5-2002, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-1999, f. & cert. ef. 2-4-99, Renumbered from 166-310-0010 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 9-1998, f. & cert. ef. 12-30-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1996, f. 9-4-96, cert. ef. 9-15-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1995, f. & cert. ef. 5-25-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
