



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 OREGON SCENIC WATERWAYS 
 736-040-0070 
 Deschutes River Scenic Waterway
 
 
 (1) Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Recreation Area: 

 (a) ORS 390.932 creates the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Recreation Area. ORS 390.934 directs the Department to adopt a management plan by rule to administer the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Recreation Area. ORS 390.124 authorizes the Commission to adopt rules to carry out the duties, functions and powers imposed by law upon the Commission and the Department. 

 (b) Pursuant to ORS 390.934, the Commission adopts by reference the Lower Deschutes River Management Plan and Environmental Impact Statement, Volume 1 (January 1993), and the Supplement to the Lower Deschutes River Management Plan, Final Decision, Lower Deschutes River Allocation System, (June 1997) as the management plan for the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Recreation Area. Copies of the Lower Deschutes River Management Plan and the Supplement to the Lower Deschutes River Management Plan, Final Decision, Lower Deschutes River Allocation System are available from the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, 725 Summer St N.E., Suite C, Salem, OR 97301. 

 (c) The state managing agencies, including the Department, Department of Fish and Wildlife, Oregon State Marine Board, and Oregon State Police and the local managing agencies, including Sherman, Wasco and Jefferson Counties and the City of Maupin shall perform their management responsibilities relating to the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Recreation area according to the management plan adopted by this rule and ORS 390.805 to 390.925 and 390.930 to 390.940. 

 (d) The Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs and the Bureau of Land Management are encouraged to exercise their jurisdiction and to manage their lands in a manner consistent with the management plan adopted by section (3) of this rule and with ORS 390.805 to 390.925 and 390.930 to 390.940. 

 (2) Recreational River Area: 

 (a) The segment of the scenic waterway extending from the Deschutes River intersection with the northerly extension of the common section line of Section 29 and Section 30, Township 9 South, Range 13 East, of the Willamette Meridian, (T 9S, R 13E, W.M.), Jefferson County, downstream approximately 96 miles to the Columbia River is classified as a Recreational River Area excluding the right bank shoreline (as seen when facing downstream) and adjacent lands opposite the City of Maupin, as its boundaries are referenced in ORS 390.932. 

 (b) Within the Recreation River Area described in subsection (2)(a), the Department may not permit any new structures or improvements which are visible from the river, other than those erected or made in connection with compatible existing uses, or those needed for public outdoor recreation or resource protection. 

 (c) Additional dwellings, other than those necessary to existing agricultural uses, and commercial public service facilities, including resorts and motels and lodges which are visible from the river, will not be permitted. 

 (3) River Community Areas: 

 (a) The segment of the scenic waterway extending from Pelton Re-Regulating Dam downstream approximately four miles to the Deschutes River intersection with the northerly extension of the common section line of Section 29 and Section 30, Township 9 South, Range 13 East, of the Willamette Meridian (T 9S, R 13E, W.M.), Jefferson County, is classified as a River Community Area. The shoreline and related adjacent lands opposite the City of Maupin, as its boundaries are referenced in ORS 390.932, is likewise classified as a River Community Area. 

 (b) Within the River Community Areas described in subsection (3)(a), when consistent with Jefferson County and Wasco County zoning ordinances, the Department may permit uses and structures including agriculture, single-family and multiple-family dwellings, churches, lodges, resorts, motels, transient public trailer parks, and necessary public service facilities. The Commission may establish allowed densities of improvements and structures which are visible from the river after consultation with the appropriate county planning commission, the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the City of Maupin or the Warm Springs Confederated Tribes and such other persons and agencies as the Commission may select. 

 (4) Public use of the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway: 

 (a) Policy: The Commission finds that in order to protect and enhance the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway's unique aesthetic, scenic, fish and wildlife, scientific and recreational features, and because these outstanding and unique features caused this river segment to be designated by the people of Oregon as a scenic waterway, it is necessary to adopt rules for public recreation use of the lands and waters within this scenic waterway area. These rules have as their basis the need to protect and preserve the waterway's outstanding scenic beauty and natural features while maintaining the river's wide range of recreational opportunities. Therefore, in accordance with the management requirements of ORS 390.845, the following rules shall be adhered to by persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway for recreation purposes. These rules are in addition to other rules of the Commission promulgated for the management of all scenic waterways. Where more restrictive or specific than the general rules, these rules will prevail over the general rules except in the instance of private property owners where only OAR 736-040-0035 (Rules for Land Management) or this rule shall apply. 

 (b) Restricted Areas: 

 (A) All persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway shall be advised that the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon have closed all Reservation lands to public use except by permit. This closure, enacted by the Confederated Tribes, also affects all islands west of the middle of the river between the Pelton re-regulating dam and the north boundary of the Reservation near Two Springs Ranch at the power boat deadline. 

 (B) All persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway shall be advised that the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon own the east and west banks of the Deschutes River between Sandy Beach and the State Route 16 bridge crossing downstream from Sherars Falls. Sandy Beach shall be the last designated boat take out upstream from Sherars Falls. The banks of the Deschutes River from Sandy Beach downstream to the State Route 16 bridge crossing, including the former take out on the west bank of the Deschutes River immediately upstream from Sherars Falls, shall be closed to boat put in or take out. Plan at page 74. 

 (C) All persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway shall be advised that the Deschutes River from the upstream end of Rattlesnake Rapids at about river mile 2.5 and extending downstream to the no wake zone at the downstream end of Moody Rapids at about river mile .5 is a pass through zone. All floating craft, except float tubes, shall pass through this segment of river and shall not stop along or tie up to the riverbank except in the event of an emergency. Plan at pages 58–60. 

 (D) Nothing in these rules gives to any person any right to trespass on the private property of others or in any way alters the rights of private property owners in regards to trespass. 

 (c) Definitions: For purposes of this rule, the following definitions shall apply: 

 (A) "Camping" means overnight occupation within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway. 

 (B) "Day Use" means human presence within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway between the hours of one hour before sunrise to 10:00 PM. 

 (C) "Designated Non-Fee Site" means a marked and designated campsite for which no fee is charged. The Deschutes River Managers shall designate river segments or zones where non-fee camping is allowed only in designated sites. 

 (D) "Fee Sites" means a marked and designated drive-in or developed camp site for which a fee is charged. Any reference in this rule, or OAR 736-040-0071, to drive-in or developed sites shall have the same meaning as Fee Site. 

 (E) "Group" as used in this rule means a party of two or more persons while present within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway. 

 (F) "Group Site" as used in this rule means a fee site, designated non-fee site, or any other site designated by the Managing Agencies as a group site. Group sites shall be designated for use by nine persons or more, up to the maximum site capacity as designated by the Managing Agencies. Where no maximum capacity is designated, the maximum capacity shall be the maximum group size for the river segment. 

 (G) "Non-Fee Site" means a campsite for which a fee is not charged. As used in this rule, all references to undeveloped campsites or undeveloped sites have the same meaning as non-fee sites. 

 (H) "Occupied Non-Designated and/or Designated Non-Fee Boat-In Campsite" as used in this rule means the presence of at least one person for each campsite, who, if not physically present within the campsite, prominently displays in a readily legible manner, within the campsite, the person's name and boater pass number, or if the person is covered under a group pass, the person's name and the name and boater pass number of the group leader. 

 (I) "Overnight Occupation" means human presence between the hours of 10:00 PM and one hour before sunrise. 

 (J) "Recreation Site" means a marked and designated, general camping or activity area as designated by the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway Managers, or a public agency or political subdivision of the state. A recreation site shall generally contain individual campsites or a day use area. 

 (K) "Unoccupied" as used in this rule means the absence of human presence during the period one hour after legal sunset to one hour before legal sunrise. 

 (L) "Walk-In Fee Site" means a marked and designated fee site in which the main recreation site is designated to be accessed by vehicle or boat. The individual campsite is generally a satellite campsite accessed on a walk-in basis from the main recreation site. Vehicle access is prohibited. 

 (d) Camping: 

 (A) Overnight camping is prohibited on all islands. Plan at page 63. 

 (B) Overnight camping length of stay shall be limited to: 

 (i) Four nights in undeveloped sites. Plan at page 63; 

 (ii) Fourteen nights in developed sites. Plan at page 63; 

 (iii) Nine nights for motorized boats between May 15 and October 15 in those areas where they are allowed. Plan at page 63. 

 (iiii) Any camp established through the use of a motorized boat between June 15th and September 30th shall be entirely removed from the river along with the motorized boat during those periods of time that motorized boat use is restricted under OAR 250-030-0030 (See Lower Deschutes River Motor Boat Closure Schedule) 

 (C) No person shall leave camping equipment or personal property overnight at or in an unoccupied, public, non-fee, campsite as a means to claim, hold, reserve or secure the site for subsequent occupancy by the same person, or their friends, clients, business associates, or clients of business associates. For the purposes of this paragraph, unoccupied means the absence of human presence during the period one hour after legal sunset to one hour before legal sunrise. 

 (D) At the end of a consecutive four night, overnight camping length of stay specified in subparagraph (4)(d)(B)(i) of this rule, all camping equipment and personal property shall be removed from the area and cannot be relocated within 1/4-mile of the same site for a period of at least 14 nights. Plan at page 63. 

 (E) Between May 15 and October 15, whenever motorized boaters vacate a campsite and it will be unoccupied as that term is defined in paragraph (4)(d)(C) of this rule, all camping and personal property shall be removed from the area and cannot be relocated within 1/4 mile of the same site for a period of at least 14 nights. 

 (F) Group size within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway will be limited to 16 persons in segments 1, 3 and 4, and 24 persons in segment 2. 

 (G) Overnight camping group size shall be determined by the size and capability of the site. In no case shall group size exceed 16 people per site in Segments 1, 3 or 4 and 24 in Segment 2. Plan at page 63. 

 (H) Overnight occupancy in vehicle accessible public areas of the Deschutes Scenic Waterway will be allowed within designated fee sites only. 

 (I) Overnight occupancy within river areas that are managed as designated non-fee camping zones will be permitted only within designated and marked non-fee sites. Non-fee areas of river segment 1 are designated non-fee zones. 

 (J) Any group occupying fee or designated non-fee sites is required to abide by the designated capacity of the site. No group leader shall allow violation of this rule by any member of his/her group. 

 (K) Any group occupying fee or designated non-fee sites shall be required to contain all group and personal equipment within the site. Where a site boundary is marked, all group and personal equipment shall be contained within those boundaries. Where no site boundary is provided, all group and personal equipment shall be contained within a line 1/2 the distance between site designation markers. As far as is practical, all camping equipment such as tents and tables shall be erected or used within the most impacted core area of the site. 

 (L) Groups shall, as far as practical, occupy fee and designated non-fee sites that display a capacity that generally corresponds with the size of the group. As far as practical, small groups shall not occupy large capacity sites. 

 (M) Groups of eight persons or less, except in an emergency, are prohibited from occupying designated group sites. 

 (N) All non-designated and designated non-fee boat-in campsites within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway shall be occupied on a first come first serve basis. Campsites may not be reserved or held for later occupation. One person may occupy and thereby hold only one campsite. Placing group or personal property in a campsite not occupied by at least one person, for the purpose of holding or reserving the site for later occupation is prohibited 

 (e) Campfires, Fuel, Firepans, Smoking: 

 (A) Open fires and charcoal are prohibited from June 1 to October 15. The Oregon Department of Forestry may extend periods of fire closure if conditions warrant. Plan at page 77. When not prohibited, fire shall be contained in a firepan or similar device of metal. A firepan is a metal container with sides at least two inches high to prevent ashes or burning material from spilling onto the ground. 

 (B) Commercially manufactured metal camp stoves and lanterns are permissible for outdoor use only when fueled with bottled liquefied petroleum gas (e.g., propane) or liquid gas. Such stoves or lanterns shall be operated in a responsible manner at all times. 

 (C) Burning of any living, dead or down vegetation within the Lower Deschutes River Management Plan area shall be prohibited. Plan at page 77. 

 (D) Every overnight camp, overnight hiking party or person using fire or operating a motor driven vehicle or boat within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway designated by ORS 390.826, shall carry and keep reasonably accessible one bucket of at least one gallon capacity and one spade or shovel. 

 (E) No person shall leave a fire unattended. 

 (F) All fires shall be completely extinguished after use. The extinguished remains shall be taken out of the scenic waterway for disposal or deposited in a proper garbage receptacle provided at recreation sites or litter collection stations. 

 (G) Smoking shall be limited to buildings, closed vehicles, boats on the water or while standing in the water. Plan at page 77. 

 (f) Firearms: The discharge of firearms is prohibited within the Lower Deschutes River planning area boundaries from the third Saturday in May through August 31 of each year. Plan at page 77. 

 (g) Water cannons: The use of motorized/mechanized water cannons is prohibited. No person shall use manual water cannons, hydro sticks, water balloons/water balloon launchers, or other water projectile device in any way that creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition or that causes personal or public alarm, nuisance, jeopardy, or violence. Plan at page 59. 

 (h) Litter and Personal Sanitation: 

 (A) Persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway for recreational purposes shall place refuse, scrap, trash and garbage in proper receptacles provided for that purpose at maintained recreation sites or litter collection stations. No such refuse, litter, garbage or similar materials shall be buried, abandoned or burned and buried or abandoned. When no approved receptacle or container is available, the material shall be taken out of the scenic waterway area for disposal. Plan at page 62. 

 (B) All persons using the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway for recreational purposes shall use the developed toilet facilities provided at public recreation sites. An approved portable toilet shall be carried and used by overnight boating groups (1 to 16 persons in segments 1, 3 and 4; 1 to 24 persons in segment 2) that remain, intend to remain, or display intent to remain overnight within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway.  While present within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway on an overnight boating basis, all persons shall, whenever practical, use either an approved portable toilet, which includes use of human waste bags, or an agency provided toilet facility for all solid human waste. All persons who remain, intend to remain, or display intent to remain overnight in an undeveloped camp site shall set up an approved portable toilet, ready for use, as soon as practical upon landing at the camping site to be occupied. No person shall leave, deposit, or scatter human waste, toilet paper, or items used as toilet paper, on the ground within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway. While within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway, portable toilets shall only be dumped at facilities developed and identified especially for that purpose. Plan at page 62.  For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 

 (i) "Approved portable toilet" is any non-biodegradable, rigid, durable, container designed to receive and hold human waste, in any container position, without leaking, and equipped with a dumping system that allows the container to be emptied and rinsed into a standard receiving or dump system designed for that purpose, such as a SCAT machine or recreational vehicle dump station, in a sanitary manner, without spills, seepage or human exposure to human waste, or human waste bags.  Used human waste bags must be carried in a leak-proof container and disposed of in a trash receptacle according to manufacturer instructions. 

 (ii) "Human Waste Bag" means a commercially available sanitary bag designed to securely contain human waste and odor.  The bag contains enzymes to break down waste into a deodorized gel and is approved by the Department of Environmental Quality for deposit into a landfill. 

 (iii) "Remain overnight" means human presence in the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway on a boat-in basis for any period of time from one hour after legal sunset to one hour before legal sunrise. 

 (iv) "Display intent to remain overnight" while within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway on a boat-in basis includes, but is not limited to, any off-loading onto the river bank, or preparing for use, common overnight camping equipment such as tents, sleeping bags or bedding, food, cooking or dining equipment, or lighting equipment, or to prepare common camping equipment for use in or on any boat. 

 (v) "Developed camp site" means a motor vehicle accessible, fee site. 

 (i) No person shall use fireworks within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway: Defined as any combustible or explosive composition or substance or any combination of any such compositions or substances or any other article which was prepared for the purpose of providing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and includes blank cartridges or toy cannons in which explosives are used, balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, bombs, rockets, wheels, colored fires, fountains, mines, serpents, or any other article of like construction or any article containing any explosive or inflammable compound or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance or inflammable compound. 

 (j) Vehicle restrictions: The limitations set forth in paragraphs (A) through (B) of this subsection shall apply to all vehicles, operators and passengers on the following roads within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway: Mecca Flat Road; Trout Creek Road; BLM Upper River Access Road-Maupin to Locked Gate; BLM Middle River Access Road-Bakeoven Road to Highway 216; and BLM Lower River Access Road-Highway 216 to Macks Canyon. 

 (A) No person shall operate a vehicle with a seating capacity greater than 24 passengers (each seat to hold no more than two persons) plus one driver and/or a total vehicle length greater than 28 feet. Plan at page 71. 

 (B) No person shall ride or allow another person to ride in or on top of a boat or boats within or on the back of any open bed motor vehicle, or on a boat or boats loaded on the top of any other motor vehicle. A person or persons may ride within a single boat that is properly secured by ropes or straps within the bed rails of a pickup truck, or properly secured as above on the bed of a flat bed motor vehicle. No person will be allowed to ride on the exterior portion of any motor vehicle within the Deschutes River Scenic Waterway. 

 (k) Inner tubes, float tubes, boogie boards: 

 (A) Swimming or floating with or without a floatation device and/or the use of inner tubes, float tubes, boogie boards, surf boards and other similar water toys used for transport of persons or property is prohibited in the Deschutes River channel in Moody Rapids on those days when power boats are allowed, except as provided below. This prohibition is in effect from the upstream end of Moody Rapids down river to the downstream side of the Moody Rapids channel marker from legal sunrise to legal sunset when power boats are allowed under the regulations of the Oregon State Marine Board. Anglers using float tubes may cross the Moody Rapids channel during these times provided they do so in the most direct route possible. Float tube anglers crossing the Moody Rapids channel shall look out for and give right-of-way to any motorized boat, which is in Moody Rapids channel or about to enter the rapids from downstream or upstream, or in any event when motorboats are approaching close enough to create a hazard. 

 (B) It is unlawful to secure any person(s), inner tube, float tube, boogie board, surf board or other similar water toys used for transport of persons or property, in or on the waters of the Deschutes River, to the river bank or to any tree, fixed object or anchoring device on lands adjacent to the river bank or to any such object or device within the boundaries of the river and river banks of the Deschutes River by any cable, rope, line, bungee cord, or other means except to secure boats to the river bank as a normal and recognized necessity. No person shall hold on to any such line or to any device secured to such line in order to ride or be transported into any channel of the Deschutes River. 

 (C) It is unlawful to secure any cable, rope, line or bungee cord or any device across the river except as necessary for rescue and/or salvage operations and other necessary uses upon consent of the managing agencies of the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, Oregon Parks and Recreation Department, Bureau of Land Management and Oregon State Police. 

 (D) The cables presently in place across the Deschutes River at Dant and the upstream area (approximately river mile 52) of the City of Maupin are exempt from this rule. Any permanent device, as described in this paragraph, will require approval from the Scenic Waterways Program of the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department in accordance with ORS 390.845 and OAR 736-040-0030 and 736-040-0035. 

 (E) The rules set forth in this rule shall not be applicable to the Deschutes River State Recreation Area Campground, the use of which shall instead be governed by general park area rules and the authority and discretion of the park manager. 

 [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.934(2) & 390.938(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 5-2024, amend filed 06/13/2024, effective 06/13/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 1-2018, amend filed 02/23/2018, effective 02/23/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 2-2014, f. & cert. ef. 7-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 PRD 6-2008, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-08 
PRD 5-2004, f. 4-27-04, cert. ef. 4-30-04 
PRD 8-2003, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-03 
PRD 6-2002, f. 5-15-02, cert. ef. 6-1-02 
PRD 5-1999, f. 5-14-99, cert. ef. 6-1-99 
PRD 2-1998, f. & cert. ef. 1-28-98 
PR 4-1994, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-94 
PR 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 12-18-90 
PR 9-1986, f. & cert. ef. 6-12-86 
PR 6-1985(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-1-85 
PR 5-1985(Temp), f. 7-15-85, cert. ef. 11-1-85 
PR 3-1985, f. & cert. ef. 6-4-85 
PR 4-1983, f. & cert. ef. 3-30-83 
PR 3-1982, f. & cert. ef. 3-26-82 
HC 1285-1972, f. & cert. ef. 6-27-72 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
