



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 75 USE OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS, PARKING AREAS (STRUCTURES, FACILITIES, LOTS) AND PREMISES UNDER DEPARTMENT CONTROL 
 125-075-0010 
 Public Use of Meeting Rooms in State Buildings Under the Department of Administrative Services’ Control 
 
 (1) Pursuant to ORS 276.440 and other related provisions of ORS Chapter 276, the Department may permit and schedule the occasional use of certain meeting rooms in the Department-controlled state office buildings by the public on space available basis, subject to restrictions and payment of fees where applicable under this rule. Any interested person or organization may call or write to the Department for information on available meeting rooms or to make reservations. The address and the phone number are as follows: Meeting Room Reservations, Operations & Maintenance Section, Facilities Division, Department of Administrative Services, 1225 Ferry Street S.E., Salem, OR 97310 — Phone: 378-2865.  (2)(a) The Department shall refuse to permit the use of such meeting rooms when it determines that doing so is contrary to any applicable law or policies of the state, or disrupt the operations of the building or the working of the state government;  (b) The use of the meeting rooms shall not be permitted under this rule for the following types of activities:  (A) Activities which generally produce excessive noise, such as music performances with high amplification;  (B) Activities which will tend to create traffic congestions in the Capitol Mall area in Salem;  (C) Activities considered by the Department as likely to endanger public safety or property;  (D) Activities at which alcoholic beverages are served or used.  (3) Fees for the use of meeting rooms shall be set by the Department. Where applicable, the minimum space rental shall be $15. In addition, a service fee will be charged for any use after 5:00 p.m. on weekdays, and any time on weekends and holidays for security, clean up and other support needs. Whenever special custodial services are required, a fee therefor shall be for not less than two hours.  (4) State agency tenants in Department-owned or controlled office buildings are exempted from the space rental charges. When tenant agency use requires special custodial services, an applicable service fee will be charged. All other users will be charged a space rental charge, and a service fee when applicable.  (5) All non-state users must reserve meeting rooms early, at least seven days in advance and pay all applicable use fees in advance of the dates or times reserved. Any cancellation must be made as soon in advance as possible to allow rescheduling. When a scheduled user fails to cancel the reservation at least three business days in advance, the scheduled user may forfeit charges for the period reserved for use.  (6) Scheduling of such meeting rooms will be done in order of priority first to state agencies, second to other public agencies, and third to private citizens or organizations.  (7) The Division reserves the right to cancel or alter any scheduled or reserved use of any meeting room when it considers necessary for public safety under emergencies.  (8) All users of meeting rooms shall leave the rooms in a reasonably clean condition after each use. In case an excessive clean up by the Department’s personnel is necessary, the user may be billed for the additional custodial services for the cleanup. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276 & 283 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 3-1983, f. & ef. 1-19-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
