



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 770 PLUMBING PRODUCT APPROVALS 
 918-770-0070 
 Definitions 
 
 For the purposes of OAR 918, division 770, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:  (1) “Accreditation” means the procedure by which an authoritative body or organization gives formal recognition that a body or organization is competent to carry out specific tasks.  (2) “Approved Product Certification System” means a product certification system approved by the Board to certify plumbing products for conformance with product standards approved by the Board.  (3) “Approved Testing Laboratory” means a laboratory accredited by an approved accrediting organization recognized by the Board to test plumbing products for conformance with standards approved by the Board.  (4) “Board” means the Oregon State Plumbing Board.  (5) “Certificate of Accreditation” means a document issued to a testing laboratory or certification body or organization.  (6) “Certification Mark” means the mark owned, controlled and registered by a body operating a product certification system and used to identify approval or listing of a product as meeting particular product standards.  (7) “Certification Program” means a procedure by which a certification body or organization gives written assurance that plumbing products conform to specific product standards.  (8) “Division” means the Building Codes Division of the Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services.  (9) “Plumbing Products” means all potable water supply and distribution pipes, plumbing fixtures and traps, drainage and vent pipes and building drains, including their respective joints and connections, supports, devices, receptacles, appurtenances, appliances and other related items.  (10) “Plumbing Product Standards” means standards for composition and performance testing of plumbing products or systems.  (11) “Recognized Standards” means plumbing product or system standards that have been approved by the Board as meeting the intent of the Oregon State Plumbing Specialty Code.  (12) “Scope of Accreditation” means a document issued by an accrediting organization listing the test standards or calibration services for which the organization is accredited. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 447.152 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 447.152 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 10-1997, f. 7-16-97, cert. ef. 10-1-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
