



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 117 REGULATION AND LICENSING OF NATURALLY OCCURRING RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS (NORM) 
 333-117-0260 
 Expiration and Termination of Licenses 
 
 (1) Except as provided in OAR 333-117-0270(2) and subsection (4)(c) of this rule, each specific license shall expire at the end of the specified day in the month and year stated therein.  (2) Each licensee shall notify the Authority immediately, in writing, and request termination of the license when the licensee decides to terminate all activities involving materials authorized under the license. This notification and request for termination of the license must include the reports and information specified in paragraph (4)(a)(D) of this rule. The licensee is subject to the provisions of sections (4) and (5) of this rule, as applicable.  (3) No less than 30 days before the expiration date specified in a specific license, the licensee shall either:  (a) Submit an application for license renewal under OAR 333-117-0270; or  (b) Notify the Authority in writing, under section (2) of this rule, if the licensee decides to discontinue all activities involving NORM.  (4) If a licensee does not submit an application for license renewal under OAR 333-117-0270, the licensee shall on or before the expiration date specified in the license:  (a) Terminate use of NORM;  (b) Remove radioactive contamination to the extent practicable;  (c) Properly dispose of NORM;  (d) Submit a record of disposal of radioactive material and radiation survey(s) to confirm the absence of NORM or to establish the levels of residual radioactive contamination, unless the licensee demonstrates the absence of residual radioactive contamination in some other manner. The licensee shall, as appropriate;  (e) Report levels of radiation in units of microrad per hour of beta and gamma radiation at one centimeter and gamma radiation at one meter from surfaces and report levels of radioactivity in units of disintegrations per minute (or microcuries) per 100 square centimeters removable and fixed on surfaces, microcuries per milliliter in water and picocuries per gram in contaminated solids such as soils or concrete; and  (f) Specify the instruments(s) used and certify that each instrument is properly calibrated and tested.  (5) If no radioactivity attributable to activities conducted under the license is detected, the licensee shall submit a certification that no detectable radioactive contamination was found. If the Authority determines that the information submitted under subsection (4)(b) of this rule and paragraph (4)(a)(D) of this rule is adequate and surveys confirm the findings, the Authority will notify the licensee in writing that the license is terminated.  (6) If detectable levels of residual radioactivity attributable to activities conducted under the license are found, the license continues in effect beyond the expiration date, if necessary, with respect to possession of residual NORM until the Authority notifies the licensee in writing that the license is terminated. During this time, the licensee is subject to the provisions of section (5) of this rule and OAR 333-103-0010. In addition to the information submitted under paragraph (4)(a)(D) of this rule, the licensee shall submit a plan, if appropriate, for decontaminating the location(s) and disposing of the residual NORM.  (7) Each licensee who possesses residual radioactive material under subsection (4)(c) of this rule shall:  (a) Be limited to actions involving NORM related to preparing the location(s) for release for unrestricted use; and  (b) Continue to control entry to restricted areas until the location(s) are suitable for release for unrestricted use and the Authority notifies the licensee in writing that the license is terminated. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 1-8-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
