



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision 
 Chapter 255 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 PRISON TERM HEARING AND HEARING PROCEDURES 
 255-030-0026 
 Who May Appear at a Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision Hearing 
 
 (1) Inmate Accompaniment: When appearing before the Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision in a hearing, an inmate may be accompanied at the Department of Corrections facility in which the inmate is confined, subject to the prior approval of the facility functional unit manager or designee, by:  (a) A person who has been approved for privileged visiting in accordance with the Department of Corrections rule on Visiting (Inmate) (OAR 291-127);  (b) An assigned inmate legal assistant, selected in accordance with the Department of Corrections rule on Legal Affairs (Inmate) (OAR 291-139), from the Department of Corrections facility where the inmate is confined; or  (c) The inmate's attorney.  (2) In addition to those persons specified in subsection (1) of this rule, the inmate may be accompanied at the hearing via telephone or videoconference by such other person or persons as the Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision, in its discretion, may approve by prior arrangement. The inmate may select one person to speak on his/her behalf. The statement shall not exceed 15 minutes. The presiding Board member may grant the support person additional time upon a finding that further testimony is likely to be relevant to the Board's decision. The presiding Board member may exclude or limit irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious testimony and evidence.  (3) The Department of Corrections, if requested by the inmate or the Board, will assign an approved inmate legal assistant from the Department of Corrections facility where the inmate is confined to accompany an inmate at a Board hearing. The selection of the inmate legal assistant shall be governed by the policies and rules of the Department of Corrections.  (4) Others Who May Attend/Appear at a Board Hearing:  (a) Victim: The victim(s), personally, or by counsel or other representative, may attend Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision Hearings and may submit written and oral statements, including supporting documents, expressing any views concerning the crime and the offender.  (b) District attorney: the district attorney from the committing jurisdiction or his/her representative or designee, may attend Board hearings and may submit written and oral statements, including supporting documents, expressing any views concerning the crime and the offender.  (c) Public: Members of the public may attend, but not participate in, Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision hearings.  (d) Media Representatives: Approved media representatives may attend, but not participate in, Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision hearings.  (e) Department of Corrections Employees, Volunteers, and Contractors: Department of Corrections employees, volunteers, and contractors may attend, but not participate in, Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision hearings, except as requested or approved by the Board in order to provide testimony in the hearing.  (f) Other: The Board retains the discretion to allow oral statements at hearings from one or more persons not otherwise identified in OAR 255-030-0026, if the Board deems the person(s) to have a substantial interest in the case, or to be able to provide information that may assist the Board in its deliberations.  (5) Means and Manner of Appearance/Attendance:  (a) Board Hearings Conducted With Inmate in Person Within a Department of Corrections Facility:  (A) If the inmate will appear before the Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision in person within a Department of Corrections facility, the person(s) accompanying the inmate, the victim, the district attorney, and/or their representatives, members of the public, and approved media representatives, may attend the hearing in person at the Department of Corrections facility, subject to the approval by the functional unit manager of the facility in which the hearing is being conducted, or if arranged in advance with the Board, via telephone, videoconference call, or other electronic medium that ensures the inmate, the Board, and other participants the opportunity to hear and be heard.  (B) A person who wants to attend a Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision hearing in a Department of Corrections facility must contact the Board at least two weeks in advance of the hearing to arrange.  (C) A person's access to a Department of Corrections facility is subject to the Department of Corrections rules on Facility Access (OAR 291-016) and Visiting (Inmate) (OAR 291-127), and may be prohibited or restricted by the functional unit manager or designee of the facility in which the hearing is being conducted consistent with the health, safety and security of staff, inmates, and the public, and with the safe, secure, and orderly operation and management of the facility.  (D) A person who attends a Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision hearing in a Department of Corrections facility is subject to the rules of conduct, and the terms and conditions of visiting set forth in the department's rules on Facility Access (OAR 291-016) and Visiting (Inmate) (OAR 291-127).  (b) Board Hearings Conducted With Inmate via Telephone, Videoconference, or Other Electronic Medium: If the inmate will appear before the Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision via telephone, videoconference, or other electronic medium, the person(s) accompanying the inmate, the victim(s), and the district attorney, and/or their representatives, members of the public, and approved media representatives, may appear/attend the hearing at the place in which the Board is conducting the hearing, or via telephone, videoconference, or other electronic medium, as arranged in advance with the Board.  (6) Conduct of Hearing: The Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision may eject any disruptive person from a hearing. The Board may require all persons to leave the designated hearing area during deliberations. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 144.123, 144.750, former 144.120(7) & 192.690 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 144.123, 144.750 & former 144.120(7) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 5-2013, f. & cert. ef. 11-27-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 3-2013, f. & cert. ef. 6-10-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 2-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 3-2012(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 9-18-12 thru 3-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 10-2004, f. & cert. ef. 11-2-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
