



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mental Health Regulatory Agency 
 Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists - Chapter 833 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
 833-080-0041 
 Methods of Obtaining Hours 
 
 (1) Approvable continuing education credits may be obtained in the following ways:  (a) Continuing education activities with no limits on clock hours:  (A) Attending college or university courses -- 15 clock hours per semester credit and 10 clock hours per quarter credit.  (B) Live seminars, workshops, conferences and/or trainings.  (C) Home study (distance learning), including internet and tele-courses.  (D) Service as an Oregon Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists member or committee volunteer.  (b) Continuing education activities for which licensees can obtain a maximum of 20 clock hours within a two year reporting period:  (A) Publication activities include:  (i) Five credits per article or review in a refereed journal that is directly related to counseling;  (ii) Five credits per chapter in edited books, 20 credits for authorship of an entire book;  (iii) Five credits per 30 minutes of initial video production directly related to counseling;  (iv) Five credits for reviewing a book proposal; and  (v) Five credits for each year of service on an editorial board of a professional counseling journal.  (B) Professional presentations. Credit is given for the initial research and development of a professional presentation. No credit shall be allowed for repeat presentations unless it is demonstrated that the program content was substantially changed and such change required significant additional study or research. The number of credits given is twice the number of hours spent making the presentation;  (c) Continuing education activities for which licensees can obtain a maximum of 10 clock hours within a two year reporting period:  (A) Serving as an officer of a state or national counseling organization;  (B) Serving as a member of a national certification board;  (C) Chairing a national counseling conference or convention; or  (D) Receiving supervision for a fee from a supervisor who meets the Board’s standards on supervision. Credit shall only be given to the licensee receiving supervision, not to a licensee providing supervision. No credit shall be given to licensees receiving supervision to fulfill licensure or discipline requirements.  (2) An approvable continuing education program is one designed and offered by an agency or institution that is recognized as an approved provider of continuing education units, e.g., NBCC-approved programs, to include:  (a) Academic courses offered in accredited degree counseling or marriage and family therapy programs;  (b) Presentations sponsored by counseling related departments of accredited educational institutions; national, regional, state, or local professional organizations or associations; public or private human services agencies or organizations; or individuals that meet all of the following approved provider guidelines:  (A) Program is presented by competent individuals as documented by appropriate academic training, professional licensure or certification, or professionally recognized experience. Presenters should have an identifiable involvement with human services;  (B) Program meets the professional needs of the licensee’s intended clientele;  (C) Program has a minimum duration of one clock hour;  (D) Except for non-classroom distance learning, program is offered in a place which is accessible to persons with disabilities;  (E) Distance learning program includes mechanism for evaluation, measurement, or confirmation of exchange of information; and  (F) Programs approved by organizations such as: National Association of Social Workers, National Board for Certified Counselors, Oregon Psychological Association, Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification, Art Therapy Credentials Board, American Art Therapy Association, American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, and American Counseling Association.  (c) Content of programs are consistent with OAR 833-080-0031. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 675.785 - 675.835 & 676.160 - 676.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 675.785 - 675.835 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLPCT 4-2016, f. & cert. ef. 10-10-16 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLPCT 1-2010, f. & cert. ef. 1-5-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
