



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 OREGON RECREATION TRAILS 
 736-009-0020 
 Definitions
 
 
 For purposes of this division, unless the context requires otherwise: 

 (1) “Agriculture/Forestry” means crops, wineries, vineyards, ranches, fisheries, orchards, nurseries, old-growth and reforested lands. 

 (2) “Amenities” may include potable water, lodging, camping, restrooms, bike shops, equipment storage, charging stations, restaurants and grocery stores. 

 (3) “Commission” means the Oregon Parks and Recreation Commission. 

 (4) “Committee” means the eleven-member Scenic Bikeway Committee appointed by the director to recommend the establishment and designation of Oregon Scenic Bikeways to the department. 

 (5) “Council” means the Oregon Recreation Trails Advisory Council. 

 (6) “Department” means the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department. 

 (7) “Director” means the Oregon Parks and Recreation Director appointed under ORS 390.127. 

 (8) “Landform” means topography that becomes more interesting as it gets steeper or more massive, or more severely sculptured. Outstanding landforms may be monumental or artistic and subtle. 

 (9) “Landscape” means a combination of outdoor, manmade, natural, and agricultural features within a view shed. 

 (10) “Linear Route” means a route that progresses from a starting to an ending point. The beginning and end of a linear route do not meet, but may connect to another route or a destination point. 

 (11) “Loop Route” means a route that starts and ends at the same location or connects to another cycling route that returns to the starting point. 

 (12) “Natural Features” means non-manmade attractions including geologic formations, wildlife sites, waterfalls, lake basins, old-growth stands, and mountain meadows. 

 (13) “Oregon Recreation Trail” means any trail established and designated by the department pursuant to the Oregon Recreation Trails System Act. 

 (14) “Oregon Regional Trail” means any trail that connects communities, recreation sites or other trail systems and provides close-to-home recreational opportunities. 

 (15) “Oregon Scenic Bikeway” means a route designated for bicyclists under ORS 390.962. 

 (16) “Oregon Scenic Trail” means trails that provide access to and enjoyment of significant scenic natural views and features. 

 (17) “Bicycle Path” means a paved or improved public way along a road or an independent right-of-way used by individuals operating a bicycle or electric assisted bicycle, pedestrians (including joggers, skaters and users of wheelchairs), other adaptive equipment and other non-motorized travelers. 

 (18) “Paved” means a hard surface such as concrete, asphalt cement concrete (A/C) or other stable bituminous surface. 

 (19) “Improved Public Way” means a legally documented right of way that could include a gravel surface. 

 (20) “Proponent” means a group, organization, or individual who proposes the designation of an Oregon Recreation Trail. 

 (21) “Public Land” means any lands owned or leased by the federal government, this state or any political subdivision thereof. 

 (22) “Route” means a combination of streets and paths used to travel to destinations or in corridors for transportation or recreation. 

 (23) “Scenic” means an abundance and variety of aesthetically-pleasing manmade or natural elements along the route. 

 (24) “Trail Corridor” means the land associated with the use agreement, easement or right-of-way upon which the trail lies. 

 (25) “Unique” means relatively rare or unusual as applied to a resource or combination of features within a geographic region. 

 (26) “Vegetation” means forest, prairies, orchards, active farm cropland and tree farms with a variety of patterns, form and textures created by plant life, and small scale vegetation features that add striking and intriguing detail elements to the landscape. 

 (27) “Water” means ocean, rivers, lakes, streams, waterfalls, rapids, marshes, estuaries, bays, canals and harbors that add movement or serenity to a scene, or the degree to which water dominates the scene. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.124 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.950 – 390.989 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 1-2023, amend filed 06/15/2023, effective 06/15/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 21-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-8-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 7-2008, f. & cert. ef. 9-15-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
