



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0047 
 Working Near Overhead High Voltage Lines and Equipment 
 
 (1) Definitions.  (a) Insulating Barrier or Guard. A structure, installation, barrier, or guard (such as a wall, fence, pole, shield, or something similar) that stops movement and prevents all possible contact with the lines or equipment. Its design, material composition, and installation prevents possible conduction of electricity up to the maximum voltage of the system.  (b) Restricted Space.  (A) For lines rated more than 600 V to 50 kV, restricted space extends 10 feet in all directions from the surface of the line or equipment.  (B) For lines rated over 50 kV, restricted space extends 10 feet plus 0.4 inch for each 1 kV over 50 kV, or twice the length of the insulator (but never less than 10 feet) in all directions from the surface of the line or equipment.  (C) For equipment or structures in transit, on level surfaces, restricted space extends 4 feet in all directions from lines or equipment rated 50 kV or less, 10 feet in all directions for lines or equipment rated over 50 kV, and 16 feet in all directions for lines or equipment rated over 345 kV up to and including 750 kV.  (c) Proper Notification. The person(s) responsible for the (planned) activity must notify the owner/operator of the line or equipment, at their business office, at least 2 business days prior to the anticipated beginning of work (business days are Monday through Friday, excluding federal and state holidays). The notification must include: (1) the proposed date to start activity within restricted space; (2) the location of the planned activity; (3) a description of the planned activity; and (4) name and contact information of the contact person.  (2) General requirement. Do not enter, perform any function or activity (such as handling, erecting, operating, transporting, or storing any tools, equipment or materials, moving a building or structure) within the restricted space surrounding an overhead high voltage line or equipment unless:  (a) Proper notification is provided; and  (A) The line and/or equipment is de-energized and visibly grounded by the owner of the high voltage system or their authorized agent; or  (B) Accidental contact is effectively prevented by use of insulating barriers or guards. Barriers or guards must:  (i) Be erected or installed by the owner of the high voltage system or their authorized agent;  (ii) Not be attached to, or be part of the lines, equipment, or machinery;  NOTE: Overhead line covers are only for visual reference, and their use does not allow entry into restricted space. If used, they must be installed by the owner of the high voltage system or their authorized agent.  (iii) Prevent all possible contact with the lines or equipment; and  (iv) Insulate against the system’s maximum voltage; or  (b) You are the owner, an authorized employee, or authorized (in writing) agent of the overhead high voltage system: or  (c) Insulated lines (not tree wire) and equipment (designed and engineered to allow only incidental contact) are erected or installed by the owner of the high voltage system or their authorized agent.  NOTE: Nothing in this standard shifts the responsibility for safe and healthy working conditions from the person(s) responsible for the activity to the owner of the lines or their agent.  NOTE: Nothing in this standard mandates that the owner of the lines or equipment, or their authorized agent must agree to de-energize, move, barricade, guard, or insulate lines or equipment, or take other action to allow entry into restricted space.  (3) Do not move, reposition, or reduce restricted space in any direction by applying stress or force to a line, equipment, or supporting structure.  (4) Operation of machinery or equipment.  (a) Do not enter restricted space when using insulating links or proximity warning devices on equipment.  (b) Post a warning sign on each piece of equipment which is capable of vertical, lateral, or swinging motion, such as a crane, derrick, power shovel, drilling rig, or pile driver.  (A) The sign must be made of durable material.  (B) It must be in clear view of the operator.  (C) The message must be legible to the operator when at the controls.  (D) The message must be understood by the operator.  (E) The message must clearly convey that it is “Unlawful to operate the piece of equipment within 10 feet of high voltage lines”.  (c) Use an observer to provide audible warning (able to be clearly heard over surrounding noise) when it becomes difficult for an operator to identify restricted space by using visual means. The observer’s only task is to watch the clearance and warn the operator if it appears that restricted space will be breached.  (d) Restrict, barricade, or otherwise make it impossible for a machine or piece of equipment to reach into restricted space if it is reasonable to anticipate that the operator’s attention may be focused on the work process rather than the location of an overhead high voltage line or equipment (such as during excavating, or other fast-paced, repetitive work).  (5) Railway and commuter systems.  (a) Standard rail equipment used to transport freight and/or passengers, and relief trains or other equipment used in emergencies, may enter restricted space surrounding high voltage lines or equipment.  (b) Qualified employees, authorized and supervised by a person familiar with the hazards of the railway high voltage system, may perform normal repair or construction work within restricted space prior to compliance with the clearance and safeguard requirements in sections (1) through (4). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4). 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295. 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-2007, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
