



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 BEHAVIOR SUPPORT SERVICES 
 411-046-0160 
 Communication 
 
 (1) Required Reporting.  Behavior consultants must report suspected or known neglect or abuse of all adults and elderly individuals as required by ORS 124.050 to 095, 430.735 to 765 and 419B to 419B.045.  (2) Confidentiality.  (a) Behavior consultants must adhere to the confidentiality standards as described in the Department contract as well as the Federal HIPAA privacy rules.  (b) Any written, verbal, digital, video, and electronic information regarding an individual must adhere to the Department's confidentiality standards as described in OAR chapter 407, division 14 and Federal HIPAA standards.  (3) Notification.  (a) Behavior consultants must notify the home and community-based care contractor of the following:  (A) Life threatening health and safety concerns must be reported immediately. This communication may occur in person or by phone.  (B) Concerns regarding a caregiver's response to coaching activity must be reported as soon as possible. This communication may occur in person, by phone, or by email.  (C) Any permanent reassignment of a behavior consultant must be reported within 5 business days or prior to onsite service delivery. This communication may occur in person, by phone, or by email.  (b) Behavior consultants must notify the case manager or local office designee of the following:  (A) Life threatening health and safety concerns of an individual must be reported immediately, by phone or in person.  (B) Concerns regarding the individual’s placement must be reported within one business day. This communication may occur by email or phone.  (C) Any permanent reassignment of a behavior consultant, must be reported within 5 business days or prior to onsite service delivery. This communication may occur by email or phone.  (D) An administrator, licensee, or designated caregiver who is unwilling or unable to implement the Behavior Support Plan, after completion of coaching plans and service coordination activities. This communication may occur by email or phone.  (c) Case managers and behavior consultants are required to exchange information regarding changes in the individual’s eligibility status, service location, or service needs during the duration of the Behavior Support Service.  (d) Behavior consultants must report suspected abuse immediately to the local Departmental office, designee office, or by calling the Department’s toll-free abuse reporting hotline. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 17-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
