



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 SALMON HATCHERIES — PRIVATE 
 635-040-0020 
 Areas Closed to Private Salmon Hatchery Release and Recapture Sites 
 
 This rule describes the streams and locations which are closed for siting of private salmon hatcheries facilities:  (1) No permits shall be issued for any private salmon hatchery to be located above the head of tidewater, except sites may be located a short distance above the mouth of small direct tributaries to the ocean. Sites shall not be located in the freshwater portion (above tidewater) of any stream which has the potential for natural production of significant numbers of anadromous fish.  (2) The following streams, their tributaries and included tidal reaches are closed to siting of private salmon hatcheries:  (a) Major streams:  (A) Columbia:  (i) Columbia system above Tongue Point;  (ii) Youngs River including Klaskanine River above Battle Creek Slough;  (iii) Lewis and Clark River above Johnson Slough;  (iv) Skipanon River above Taylor Lake outlet.  (B) Necanicum River above Neawanna Creek;  (C) Elk Creek and estuary;  (D) Nehalem:  (i) Nehalem system above Foley Creek;  (ii) North Fork Nehalem River above Anderson Creek.  (E) Tillamook:  (i) Miami River above Illingsworth Creek;  (ii) Kilchis River above Neilson Slough;  (iii) Wilson River above Hall Slough;  (iv) Trask River above its confluence with Tillamook River;  (v) Tillamook River above Fagan Creek.  (F) Netarts — Netarts Bay and its entire drainage;  (G) Nestucca:  (i) Nestucca system above Cannery Point;  (ii) Little Nestucca River above Meda bridge.  (H) Neskowin Creek in its entirety;  (I) Salmon River System and estuary;  (J) Siletz:  (i) Schooner Creek in its entirety;  (ii) Drift Creek in its entirety;  (iii) Siletz River above Skunk Creek.  (K) Yaquina River system above Babcock Creek;  (L) Alsea River system and estuary;  (M) Yachats River system and estuary;  (N) Big Creek (Lane County system);  (O) Siuslaw:  (i) Siuslaw system above Hadsall Creek;  (ii) North Fork Siuslaw River above Lindsley Creek.  (P) Siltcoos system;  (Q) Tahkenitch Creek system;  (R) Umpqua:  (i) Smith system above Noel Creek;  (ii) Umpqua system above Mill Creek.  (S) Tenmile Creek system (Tenmile Lakes);  (T) Coos:  (i) Coos system above the Millicoma (the Forks);  (ii) Millicoma system above South Coos (the Forks).  (U) Coquille:  (i) Ferry Creek in its entirety;  (ii) Coquille system above Beaver Slough.  (V) Floras Creek/New River system;  (W) Sixes River system and estuary;  (X) Elk River system and estuary;  (Y) Euchre Creek system and estuary;  (Z) Rogue River system and estuary;  (AA) Hunter Creek System and estuary;  (BB) Pistol River system and estuary;  (CC) Chetco River system and estuary;  (DD) Winchuck River system and estuary.  (b) Miscellaneous small streams as may be specified by the Department which enter the ocean through tourist facilities such as state parks and waysides or are contiguous to wild, scenic, or wilderness areas. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 508 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 508 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 5-1990, f. 1-24-90, cert. ef. 1-26-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 1-1980, f. & ef. 1-7-80 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 66, f. 7-30-76, ef. 8-2-76, Renumbered from 625-030-0115 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
