



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 75 USE OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS, PARKING AREAS (STRUCTURES, FACILITIES, LOTS) AND PREMISES UNDER DEPARTMENT CONTROL 
 125-075-0015 
 Possession or Use of Firearms, Alcoholic Beverages and Illegal Substances on the Grounds, Parking Areas (Structures, Facilities, Lots) and Premises of Buildings Under Department Control 
 
 (1)(a) Possession or use of firearms or other weapons of any kind, including any explosives, air guns, or slingshots on the grounds, parking areas (structures, facilities, lots) and premises of buildings under Department control is governed by federal and state laws.  (b) The provisions of this section do not apply to firearms in the possession of or stored for official public business authorized by statute for peace officers or for members of any state or national military organization.  (2)(a) The sale, possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages are governed by federal and state laws, local ordinances, and regulations in compliance with a permit. Visitors to any grounds, parking areas (structures, facilities, lots) and premises of buildings under Department control must comply with any directives given to them by law enforcement authorities and employees specifically designated by the Department to investigate observed or reported violations and to issue oral or written warnings or citations to enforce Department rules.  (b) Wine is permitted when stored or used for official public business by the Department of Agriculture under ORS Chapter 576;  (c) Alcoholic beverages are permitted if stored legally in any private vehicle in transit through or while legally parked on the grounds, parking areas (structures, facilities, lots) and premises of buildings under Department control.  (3)(a) It is unlawful for any person to possess illegal drugs on the grounds, parking areas (structures, facilities, lots) and premises of buildings under Department control.  (b) Illegal drug activities are subject to federal and state laws; local ordinances and regulations; and State Policy 50.000.01 Drug-Free Workplace. Any person who uses, possesses, or distributes illegal drugs on the grounds, parking areas (structures, facilities, lots) and premises of buildings under Department control is subject to criminal prosecution by state and federal authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 276 & 283 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 1-2009, f. & cert. ef. 1-6-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GS 3-1983, f. & ef. 1-19-83 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
