



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 32 OREGON SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM 
 734-032-0050 
 Oregon Scenic Byway Designation Process — Formal Proposal 
 
 (1) If the proposal is recommended to proceed, the proponent must make a formal presentation to the committee presenting the following information in addition to providing additional detail of the requirements in OAR 734-032-0040(1):  (a) Detail the management strategy which shall be employed for the route. This should include the following:  (A) How the Scenic or Tour Route Criteria values shall be protected;  (B) How the Scenic or Tour Route Criteria values shall be interpreted for the public;  (C) How the road and parking shall be maintained to enhance value and for public safety; and  (D) How values shall be enhanced.  (b) Discussion of the funding commitment including a letter stating the amount committed and when available;  (c) A statement demonstrating that designation of the route shall be consistent with applicable land use plans including a letter from the local governments having jurisdiction over the route;  (d) A letter from the road agencies having jurisdiction over the route showing that the proposed designation has been coordinated with these agencies;  (e) Demonstrate how new or relocated billboards shall be prohibited in the scenic byway corridor; and  (f) A marketing plan which is coordinated with local/regional convention and visitors bureau and/or chambers of commerce.  (2) Based on the information presented the committee may determine that the route does not qualify as a Scenic Byway or Tour Route category.  (3) The committee shall review driveability of a route to determine if it is satisfactory for the Scenic Byway Category. If the route does not meet the driveability requirement it may be considered in the Tour Route category.  (4) Representatives of the Oregon Scenic Byway Committee shall conduct a field review of the proposed route and rate the route against the Scenic and Tour Route Criteria. These criteria are in Tables 1 and 2, Scenic Byway Criteria and Tour Route Criteria, respectively.  (5) In order to be recommended for designation as a Scenic Byway, the route must achieve a threshold score in the evaluation against the Scenic Byway Criteria.  (6) In order to be recommended for designation as a Tour Route, the route must receive a minimum score in the evaluation against the Scenic Byway Criteria. The route must also receive enough additional points in the evaluation against the Tour Route Criteria to reach the threshold score.  (7) Prior to accepting applications for scenic byways or tour routes, the Scenic Byway Committee shall assign points to the Scenic Byway and Tour Route Criteria in Tables 1 and 2, and shall establish threshold scores and minimum scores for Scenic Byways and Tour Route designation. This information shall be made available to all proponents.  (8) If the full committee agrees to recommend a route to be designated either as a Scenic Byway or Tour Route, the recommendations of the committee shall be forwarded to the Transportation Commission and the Oregon Tourism Commission for final action. Both the commission and council must adopt the recommendation for the route by at least a two-thirds majority for the route to receive the designation.  (9) If the proposed route is not recommended for designation by the committee, comments shall be provided to the proponent. This information shall state the reasons why this route was not designated and possible improvements along the route that would help it meet the required standards if the proponent opts to reapply. The route may be resubmitted for consideration of designation 90 days after comments are provided to the proponent.  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.617 & 184.619 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1994, f. & ef. 12-29-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
