



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 836-010-0026 
 Prohibition on the Use of Discretionary Clauses 
 
 (1)(a) As used in this rule, “discretionary clause” means a policy provision that purports to bind the claimant, or to grant deference to the insurer, in proceedings subsequent to the insurer’s decision, denial or interpretation of terms, coverage or eligibility for benefits. “Discretionary clause” includes a policy provision that provides any of the following:  (A) An insured or other claimant may not appeal a denial of a claim;  (B) The insurer's decision to deny coverage is binding upon a policyholder or other claimant or is otherwise entitled to deference upon appeal or review;  (C) On appeal or review the insurer's decision-making power as to coverage is binding or otherwise entitled to deference;  (D) The insurer's interpretation of the terms of a policy is binding upon a policyholder or other claimant or is otherwise entitled to deference;  (E) On appeal the insurer's interpretation of the terms of a policy is binding or is otherwise entitled to deference;  (F) A legal standard of review on appeal that gives deference to the original claim decision, or gives rise to such legal standard of review; or  (G) The insurer has sole discretion to determine whether a claim is compensable or its interpretation of the provisions of the policy is entitled to deference in a subsequent proceeding.  (b) Nothing in this section prohibits a carrier from including a provision in a contract that informs an insured that as part of its routine operations the carrier applies the terms of its contracts for making decisions, including making determination regarding eligibility, receipt of benefits and claims or explaining its policies, procedures and processes.  (2) A policy, contract or agreement offered or issued in this state by an insurer to provide, deliver, arrange for, pay for or reimburse claim costs may not contain a discretionary clause or other language purporting to reserve discretion to the insurer to interpret the terms of the contract, or to provide standards of interpretation or review that are inconsistent with the laws of this state.  (3) This rule does not prevent a policy provision that addresses alternative dispute resolution as allowed by law.  (4) This rule is self-executing. The rule applies to policies, contracts and agreements issued or renewed on or after the date the rule is adopted. If a policy, contract or agreement is renewed and contains a provision rendered void and unenforceable by this rule, the parties to the policy, contract or agreement and the courts shall treat that provision as void and unenforceable. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 731.008, 742.003 & 742.005 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 2-2015, f. & cert. ef. 3-12-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
