



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 PUBLIC FACILITIES PLANNING 
 660-011-0010 
 The Public Facility Plan 
 
 (1) The public facility plan shall contain the following items:  (a) An inventory and general assessment of the condition of all the significant public facility systems which support the land uses designated in the acknowledged comprehensive plan;  (b) A list of the significant public facility projects which are to support the land uses designated in the acknowledged comprehensive plan. Public facility project descriptions or specifications of these projects as necessary;  (c) Rough cost estimates of each public facility project;  (d) A map or written description of each public facility project’s general location or service area;  (e) Policy statement(s) or urban growth management agreement identifying the provider of each public facility system. If there is more than one provider with the authority to provide the system within the area covered by the public facility plan, then the provider of each project shall be designated;  (f) An estimate of when each facility project will be needed; and  (g) A discussion of the provider’s existing funding mechanisms and the ability of these and possible new mechanisms to fund the development of each public facility project or system.  (2) Those public facilities to be addressed in the plan shall include, but need not be limited to those specified in OAR 660-011-0005(5). Facilities included in the public facility plan other than those included in OAR 660-011-0005(5) will not be reviewed for compliance with this rule.  (3) It is not the purpose of this division to cause duplication of or to supplant existing applicable facility plans and programs. Where all or part of an acknowledged comprehensive plan, facility master plan either of the local jurisdiction or appropriate special district, capital improvement program, regional functional plan, similar plan or any combination of such plans meets all or some of the requirements of this division, those plans, or programs may be incorporated by reference into the public facility plan required by this division. Only those referenced portions of such documents shall be considered to be a part of the public facility plan and shall be subject to the administrative procedures of this division and ORS Chapter 197. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 4-1984, f. & ef. 10-18-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
