



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 60 CONTRACTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS 
 230-060-0070 
 Competitor-Promoter Contract Provisions
 
 
 (1) No verbal or written agreement other than a contract on a form approved by the superintendent shall be accepted by the Administrator. 

 (2) No contract between a promoter and a manager or unarmed combat sports competitor shall be enforced by the Administrator until all contracts between the promoter and the competitor for any particular bout are filed with the Administrator and meet the requirements of administrative rules. 

 (3) Contracts are prohibited wherein a certain sum other than federal, state or local government taxes is taken by the promoter from the gate receipts or, where applicable, receipts from the sale, lease, transfer, or other exploitation of broadcasting and television rights, before an unarmed combat sports competitor is paid a percentage of the balance of said receipts for the competitor's services. Deductions may be allowed only if the amount to be deducted is clearly specified and itemized in the contract signed by the promoter and professional unarmed combat sports competitor. If an authorized representative of the superintendent determines that the deductions are not sufficiently itemized and specific, the deductions may be disallowed. 

 (4) Contracts containing "blanket contracts" or options on an unarmed combat sports competitor’s services relating to activities other than the immediate event shall not be approved. 

 (5) Contracts containing provisions wherein a competitor agrees to accept a certain percentage for the competitor’s services with the understanding that at the same time the competitor is to pay his or her opponent a stipulated amount of this percentage will not be approved. 

 (6) Contracts between a professional unarmed combat sports competitor and promoter shall contain the following provision: 

 "Competitor and promoter agree and understand that in no event will a promoter honor any assignments executed by a competitor  which will cause the compensation to be paid to a competitor by promoter to be any less than 66-2/3% of the gross purse to be paid to a professional unarmed combat sports competitor nor will any deductions from the gross purse occur which will bring the compensation paid to a competitor to a level below 66-2/3% of said gross purse". 

 (7) When a manager is not present at the event where the manager's competitor is performing, before said competitor may lawfully contract for the competitor’s own services, it shall be necessary that the competitor: 

 (a) Present written authorization from the competitor’s manager to sign the contract for the bout; 

 (b) Present written authorization from the competitor’s manager to receive the purse. 

 (8) In case managerial authority is temporarily transferred to another person acting as manager, the acting manager shall: 

 (a) Hold a valid manager's license; 

 (b) Present a written agreement, signed by both the competitor and the existing manager; 

 (c) File a copy of such written agreement of transfer of authority with the Administrator for approval. 

 (9) Managers are prohibited from signing a fight contract for the appearance of any professional unarmed sports competitor when the manager does not have a written contract on file with the Administrator for said competitor. 

 (10) Manager shall send written notification to the Administrator immediately upon the termination of a contract with a competitor. 

 (11) If the competitor and promoter agree that the promoter shall pay the competitor's travel expenses, such agreement must be reflected in the contract or the authorized representative of the superintendent will take no steps to enforce the agreement. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 & ORS 463.185 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.185 & ORS 463.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 6-2018, amend filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BWC 1-1995, f. 10-10-95, cert. ef. 10-13-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BWC 1-1991, f. & cert. ef. 9-20-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BWC 1-1988, f. 3-22-88, cert. ef. 3-29-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
