



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 48 MODEL RULES CONSULTANT SELECTION: ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING AND LAND SURVEYING SERVICES AND RELATED SERVICES CONTRACTS 
 137-048-0260 
 Two-Tiered Selection Procedure for Local Contracting Agency Public Improvement Projects
 
 
 (1) If a Local Contracting Agency requires an Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor to perform Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services for a public improvement owned and maintained by that Local Contracting Agency, and a State Agency will serve as the lead Contracting Agency and will enter into Contracts with Architects, Photogrammetrists, Transportation Planners, Engineers or Land Surveyors for Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services for that public improvement, the State Contracting Agency shall utilize the two-tiered selection process described below to obtain these Contracts with Architects, Engineers, Photogrammetrists, Transportation Planners, or Land Surveyors. 

 (2) Tier One. A State Contracting Agency shall, when feasible, identify no fewer than the three (3) most qualified Proposers responding to an RFP that was issued under the applicable selection procedures described in OAR 137-048-0210 (Informal Selection Procedure) and 137-048-0220 (Formal Selection Procedure), or from among Architects, Engineers, Photogrammetrists, Transportation Planners, or Land Surveyors identified under 137-048-0200 (Direct Appointment Procedure), and shall notify the Local Contracting Agency of the Architects, Engineers, Photogrammetrists, Transportation Planners, or Land Surveyors selected. 

 (3) Tier Two. In accordance with the qualifications based selection requirements of ORS 279C.110, the Local Contracting Agency shall either: 

 (a) Select an Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor from the State Contracting Agency's list of Proposers to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services for Local Contracting Agency's public improvement; or 

 (b) Select an Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services for Local Contracting Agency's public improvement through an alternative process adopted by the Local Contracting Agency, consistent with the provisions of the applicable RFP, if any, and these division 48 rules. The Local Contracting Agency's alternative process must be described in the applicable RFP, may be structured to take into account the unique circumstances of the particular Local Contracting Agency and may include provisions to allow the Local Contracting Agency to perform its tier two responsibilities efficiently and economically, alone or in cooperation with other Local Contracting Agencies. The Local Contracting Agency's alternative process may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following methods: 

 (A) A general written direction from the Local Contracting Agency to the State Contracting Agency, prior to the advertisement of a Procurement or series of Procurements or during the course of the Procurement or series of Procurements, that the Local Contracting Agency's tier two selection shall be the highest-ranked firm identified by the State Contracting Agency during the tier one process, and that no further coordination or consultation with the Local Contracting Agency is required. However, the Local Contracting Agency may provide written notice to the State Contracting Agency that the Local Contracting Agency's general written direction is not to be applied for a particular Procurement and describe the process that the Local Contracting Agency will utilize for the particular Procurement. In order for a written direction from the Local Contracting Agency consistent with this subsection to be effective for a particular Procurement, it must be received by the State Contracting Agency with adequate time for the State Contracting Agency to revise the RFP in order for Proposers to be notified of the tier two process to be utilized in the Procurement. In the event of a multiple award under the terms of the applicable Procurement, the written direction from the Local Contracting Agency may apply to the highest ranked firms that are selected under the terms of the Procurement document. 

 (B) An intergovernmental agreement between the Local Contracting Agency and the State Contracting Agency outlining the alternative process that the Local Contracting Agency has adopted for a Procurement or series of Procurements. 

 (C) Where multiple Local Government Agencies are involved in a two-tiered selection procedure, the Local Government Agencies may name one or more authorized representative(s) to act on behalf of all the Local Government Agencies, whether the Local Government Agencies are acting collectively or individually, to select the Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services under the tier two selection process. In the event of a multiple award under the terms of the applicable Procurement, the authorized representative(s) of the Local Contracting Agencies may act on behalf of the Local Contracting Agencies to select the highest ranked firms that are required under the terms of the Procurement document, as part of the tier two selection process. 

 (4) In the event the State Contracting Agency has made a multiple award of Price Agreements pursuant to OAR 137-048-0270, with that multiple award of Price Agreements meeting the tier-one requirements of ORS 279C.125 and this rule, the Local Contracting Agency shall make its tier-two selection of an Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor for a project-specific work order or task order from the Consultants who have executed Price Agreements with the State Contracting Agency, in accordance with the work order or task order assignment procedures established by the State Contracting Agency in the Price Agreements. If the Local Contracting Agency elects to select an Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor to perform the Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services or Related Services for Local Contracting Agency's public improvement through an alternative process adopted by the Local Contracting Agency, the requirements of that alternative process must be specified in the RFP, if any, in the executed Price Agreements, or in the project-specific work order or task order assignment procedures provided to the Consultants who have executed Price Agreements, at the time the selection of a Consultant is made for the project-specific work order or task order. 

 (5) The State Contracting Agency shall thereafter begin Contract negotiations with the selected Architect, Engineer, Photogrammetrist, Transportation Planner or Land Surveyor in accordance with the negotiation provisions in OAR 137-048-0200 (Direct Appointment Procedure), 137-048-0210 (Informal Selection Procedure) or 137-048-0220 (Formal Selection Procedure) as applicable. 

 (6) Nothing in these division 48 rules should be construed to deny or limit a Local Contracting Agency's ability to enter into a Contract directly with Architects, Engineers, Photogrammetrists, Transportation Planners, or Land Surveyors pursuant to ORS 279C.125(4), through a selection process established by that Local Contracting Agency. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065, OL 2011 & ch 458 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279C.110, 279C.125, OL 2011 & ch 458 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 27-2018, amend filed 12/10/2018, effective 01/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 10-2011, f. 11-29-11, cert. ef. 1-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 15-2009, f. 12-1-09, cert. ef. 1-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 20-2005, f. 12-27-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
