



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 FEDERAL CONSISTENCY 
 660-035-0030 
 Consistency for Federal Agency Activities 
 
 (1) When reviewing a federal agency activity or development project for consistency to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the OCMP, the department shall conform to the requirements and procedures provided in 15 CFR Part 930, Subpart C.  (2) For review of a consistency determination submitted by a federal agency for a federal agency activity or federal development project, the federal agency must submit to the department the information described in 15 CFR §930.39(a).  (a) Although 15 CFR §930.37 limits state authority to require National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) documents for federal consistency review purposes, a federal agency may mutually agree with the department to rely on information contained in NEPA documents or other project documents to provide some of the comprehensive data and information sufficient to support the federal agency’s consistency statement under 15 CFR §930.39(a).  (b) A federal agency may elect to rely on information contained in NEPA documents or other project documents to demonstrate consistency to the maximum extent practicable with the enforceable policies of the OCMP. If relying on NEPA documents or other project documentation, the federal agency must clearly demonstrate how the materials support a finding of consistency with OCMP enforceable policies.  (3) The department shall provide for public participation consistent with the provisions of 15 CFR §930.42. The department will:  (a) Maintain a mailing list of interested parties;  (b) Notify interested parties when the department is reviewing federal agency activities or development projects for consistency with the OCMP; and  (c) Solicit comments that address the consistency of the proposed federal activity or development project with applicable elements of the OCMP.  (4) Evidence supporting consistency for a federal agency activity or development project: Federal agencies are not required to file applications for state and local permits and other authorizations unless required to do so by provisions of federal law other than the CZMA. However, federal agencies are required to demonstrate that the proposed activity is consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the applicable state and local enforceable policies underlying the permits. While federal agencies are not required to apply for state and local permits and other authorizations otherwise required by enforceable policies, where federal law authorizes a federal agency to do so the department will consider such applications when determining whether the federal activity or development project is consistent with the enforceable policies underlying the permit or authorization.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.435 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 8-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-15-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDC 7-1988, f. & cert. ef. 9-29-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
