



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 142 HOSPICE SERVICES 
 410-142-0240 
 Hospice Core Services 
 
 The following services are covered hospice services when consistent with the plan of care and must be provided in accordance with recognized standards of practice:  (1) Nursing services. The hospice must provide nursing care and services by or under the supervision of a registered nurse:  (a) Nursing services must be directed and staffed to assure that the nursing needs of the patient are met;  (b) Patient care responsibilities of nursing personnel must be specified;  (c) Services must be provided in accordance with recognized standards of practice.  (2) Medical social services. Medical social services must be provided by a qualified social worker, under the direction of a physician;  (3) Physician services. In addition to palliative and management of terminal illness and related conditions, physician employees, contractors or volunteers of the hospice, including the physician member(s), of the interdisciplinary group, must also meet the general medical needs of the patient to the extent these needs are not met by the attending physician:  (a) Reimbursement for physician or nurse practitioner supervisory and interdisciplinary group services for those physicians or nurse practitioners employed by the hospice agency is included in the rate paid to the agency;  (b) Reimbursement of attending physician or nurse practitioner services for those physicians not employed by the hospice agency is according to the Division of Medical Assistance Programs (Division) fee schedule. These physicians or nurse practitioners must bill the Division for their services;  (c) Reimbursement of attending physician or nurse practitioner services (not including supervisory and interdisciplinary group services) for those physicians or nurse practitioners employed by the hospice agency is according to the Division fee schedule. These physicians or nurse practitioners must bill the Division for their services;  (d) Reimbursement of the hospice for consulting physician services furnished by hospice employees or by other physicians under arrangements by the hospice is included in the rate paid to the agency.  (4) Counseling services. Counseling services must be available to both the patient and the family. Counseling includes bereavement counseling provided after the patient's death as well as dietary, spiritual and any other counseling services for the patient and family provided while the individual is enrolled in the hospice;  (5) Short-term inpatient care. Inpatient care must be available for pain control, symptom management and respite purposes;  (6) Medical appliances and supplies:  (a) Includes drugs and biologicals as needed for the palliation and management of the terminal illness and related conditions;  (b) Drugs prescribed for conditions other than for the palliation and management of the terminal illness are not covered under the hospice program.  (7) Hospice aide and homemaker services;  (8) Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology services;  (9) Other services. Other services specified in the plan of care that are covered by the Oregon Health Plan (OHP). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 36-2010, f. 12-15-10, cert. ef. 1-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 1-2003, f. 1-31-03, cert. ef. 2-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 28-1997, f. 12-31-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 9-1994, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
