



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 260 CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT FOR OTHER THAN WELL CONSTRUCTORS 
 690-260-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply in OAR 690, division 260.  (1) “Acceptable Schedule” means a compliance schedule that is acknowledged and signed by the Director.  (2) “Agency” means any state board, commission, department or division thereof, or any officer authorized by law to make rules or to issue orders, except those in the legislative and judicial branches of government.  (3) “Beneficial Use” means the reasonably efficient use of water without waste for a purpose consistent with the laws and the best interests of the people of the state.  (4) “Burden of Proof” means the necessity or duty of affirmatively proving a fact or facts in a dispute.  (5) “Commission” means the Water Resources Commission.  (6) “Corrective Action” means actions to be taken by the responsible party, as specified by the Director, to correct violations reflected in a notice of violation or notice of assessment of civil penalty.  (7) “Department” means the Water Resources Department.  (8) “Director” means the Director of the Water Resources Department.  (9) “Financial Gain” means the amount of economic gain realized by the responsible party from non-compliance with the state water law from the date specified in a notice of violation until corrective action is taken.  (10) “Hearing” means a contested case hearing as defined in the Oregon Administrative Procedure Act.  (11) “Notice of Assessment of Civil Penalty” means a written notice which includes a reference to the statute, rule, order, permit condition or standard involved; a statement of the matters asserted or charged; the amount of the penalty imposed; and a statement of the right of the person to request a hearing.  (12) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice which includes a reference to the statute, rule, order, permit condition or standard violated; the date of the violation; and the time specified for correction of the violation.  (13) “Person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental subdivision or public or private organization of any character other than an agency.  (14) “Responsible Party” means the person or agency that is in control and is either in violation as specified in a notice of violation or who may benefit from that violation.  (15) “Similar Violation” means a violation of a statute, rule, order, permit condition, or standards for which the person or agency has previously received a notice of violation.  (16) “Waste” means for purposes of assessing civil penalties, when the quantity of water diverted exceeds the quantity required to meet the beneficial use specified in a water right, not including reasonable system losses, return flows, or diversion rates of water allowed in a water right or a rotation agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 5-15-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
