



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 SEAPLANE OPERATION 
 738-040-0040 
 Application for Special Regulations 
 
 (1) The governing body of a political subdivision of this state may apply to the State Aviation Board for special regulations relating to the operations of seaplanes on waters within the territorial limits of the political subdivision. These regulations may include, but are not limited to, the establishment of limits on the areas of operations, hours and time of operations and the prohibition of seaplane landings and take offs.  (2) Written application for special regulations shall be made through the Department for review and processing. The application shall clearly state the nature and scope of the existing conflict that requires the restriction of seaplane operations, and the seaplane restrictions requested. A description of the use patterns, existing boating regulations and history of the body of water shall be included as part of the application.  (3) Within a reasonable time after receiving such application, the Department Director will investigate and analyze the proposal for the appropriateness and effectiveness of the proposed regulations. In evaluating the request, the Department may conduct an inspection of the site to document its physical attributes, and to collect other pertinent data. The Director will consider the following aspects (among others) of the proposal in arriving at a finding:  (a) The general suitability and safety of the body of water for seaplane use, such as the physical layout and dimensions of the body of water, surrounding obstructions and hazards;  (b) The traditional uses of the water in question; and  (c) The nature and volume of others uses and seasonal use patterns.  (4) The evaluation will be conducted in consultation with the Oregon State Marine Board.  (5) After evaluating the application, the Director shall present the application and recommendations to the Board. The Director may recommend:  (a) Denial of the application, if the proposed regulations are not justified;  (b) Consideration of the application with amendments, if the requested seaplane restrictions are excessive; or  (c) Consideration of the application as requested.  (6) If the Board determines that special regulations may be appropriate, formal rule making in accordance with ORS 183, will be initiated to amend these rules.  (7) In determining the appropriate regulations for seaplanes, the least restrictive solution consistent with safety will be sought. Outright seaplane prohibition will be reserved for only the most extreme situations of unusual and continuous congestion or the lack of physical suitability for seaplane operations. Normally, limits on the areas of operation or time or seasonal restrictions will be adequate to avoid conflict. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 814.619, 835.035 & 835.080 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 835.035, 835.080 & 835.085 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 4-2002, f. 11-27-02, cert. ef. 12-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AERO 1-1997, f. & cert. ef. 2-28-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
