



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission 
 Chapter 845 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSES 
 845-005-0405 
 Full or Limited On-Premises Licensee Temporary Off-Premises Private Catered Events
 
 
 (1) ORS 471.184 allows the holder of a Full On-Premises or Limited On-Premises license to cater temporary events at locations other than the licensee’s annually premises.  This rule refers to these events as temporary off-premises private catered events.  A Full On-Premises, Cater license under ORS 471.175(2)(e) is issued with general pre-approval from the Commission to conduct temporary off-premises private catered events.  A licensee without general pre-approval from the Commission to conduct temporary off-premises private catered events must: 

 (a) Obtain general pre-approval from the Commission prior to conducting temporary off-premises private catered events; or 

 (b) Give the Commission specific written notice at least five calendar days prior to each temporary off-premises private catered event.  The notice must include the event date, duration of the event, expected attendance, exact location, and a description of the type of event. 

 (2) At a temporary off-premises private catered event, the licensee may: 

 (a) Sell and serve the alcoholic beverages permitted by the license for on-premises consumption. 

 (b) Sell factory-sealed containers of wine, malt beverages, and cider at retail for consumption off the licensed premises. 

 (c) Sell, in securely covered containers supplied by the consumer and having a capacity of not more than two gallons each, wine, malt beverages, or cider for off-premises consumption. 

 (d) Deliver wine, malt beverages, and cider sold under (b) and (c) of this section to a resident of Oregon.  Any deliveries must follow OAR 845-006-0392 and 845-006-0396. 

 (3) Definitions. For this rule: 

 (a) “Bar” means a counter at which the preparation, pouring, serving, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages is the primary activity; 

 (b) “Food counter” means a counter in an area in which minors are allowed and at which the primary activity at all times is the preparation, serving, sale, or consumption of food; 

 (c) “License day” means from 7:00 am until 2:30 am on the succeeding calendar day, or any part of a license day. 

 (d) “Serious violation history” means: 

 (A) Two or more category III or IIIa administrative violations of any type, or category IV violations involving minors. However, if the circumstances of a violation include aggravation, one violation may be sufficient; or 

 (B) One category I, II, or IIa administrative violation; or 

 (C) Two or more crimes or offenses involving liquor laws. 

 (e) “Social game” means a game other than a lottery, if authorized by a local county or city ordinance pursuant to ORS 167.121, between players in a private business, private club, or place of public accommodation where no house player, house bank, or house odds exist and there is no house income from the operation of the social game. 

 (f) “Video lottery game” means a video lottery game terminal authorized by the Oregon State Lottery. Examples include but are not limited to video poker and video slots. Keno monitors are not considered a video lottery game. 

 (4) For purposes of this rule, temporary off-premises private catered events are events where: 

 (a) There is a contract between a client and the licensee to provide meals as required by OAR 845-006-0462 for a specific number of guests or participants; 

 (b) The event is not open to the general public; 

 (c) The licensee is not the client; 

 (d) Alcoholic beverage service is only in conjunction with food service; and 

 (e) The provision of alcoholic beverages at the catered event must not be more than one license day’s duration unless the event is a closed conference or seminar. 

 (5) To obtain general pre-approval from the Commission for temporary off-premises private catered events, an applicant must submit the following forms, documents, and information to the Commission: 

 (a) A completed application form provided by the Commission containing all information and signatures required by the form. 

 (b) Confirmation of compliance with the food service standards of OAR 845-006-0462. 

 (c) A written plan the Commission determines adequately manages events to: 

 (A) Prevent problems and violations; 

 (B) Control patronage by minors as set out in this rule; and 

 (C) Prevent over-service of alcoholic beverages to patrons. 

 (6) After an applicant has submitted the application materials required by subsection (5) of this rule, the Commission may: 

 (a) Require additional forms, documents, or information from the applicant where there is reason to believe that the forms, documents, or information are required by law or rule or may help the Commission determine the merits of an application or to otherwise perform its statutory duties. 

 (b) Inactivate the application at any time when the Commission determines: 

 (A) One or more of the required materials, forms, documents, or information are missing or are not complete, accurate, legible, or correct; 

 (B) The applicant fails to provide to the Commission all required materials, forms, documents, and information in a manner that are complete, accurate, legible, and correct within 10 calendar days of the Commission’s notice to the applicant; 

 (C) The plan submitted by the applicant to manage the event is not adequate; or 

 (D) The applicant’s submission of the application materials did not allow the Commission sufficient processing time prior to the event date. 

 (7) A plan for managing patronage by minors under this rule must meet the following requirements: 

 (a) If the temporary off-premises private catered event will be on any part of a premises, room, or area with an annual license issued by the Commission, the Commission must be convinced that the plan will follow the minor posting and control plan, including any temporary relaxation or tightening of the minor posting, assigned to that premises, room, or area under the annual license. The Commission must also be convinced that the plan will prevent minors from gaining access to alcoholic beverages and any portion of the licensed premises prohibited to minors. 

 (b) If the temporary off-premises private catered event will not be on any part of a premises, room, or area with an annual license issued by the Commission, the Commission must be convinced that the plan will prevent minors from gaining access to alcoholic beverages and any portion of the licensed premises the Commission prohibits to minors. 

 (8) Minors are prohibited from the temporary off-premises private catered event licensed premises or portions of the temporary off-premises private catered event licensed premises as follows: 

 (a) Minors may not sit or stand at a bar; however, minors may sit or stand at a food counter; 

 (b) Minors may not be in an area where there are video lottery games, social games, or nude entertainment or where such activities are visible; 

 (c) Minors may not be in an area where the licensee’s approved written plan designates that minors will be excluded. 

 (9) The Commission may deny, cancel or restrict general pre-approval of temporary off-premises private catered events for any reason for which the Commission may deny, cancel or restrict a regular license. 

 (10) The Commission may deny, cancel, or restrict general pre-approval of temporary off-premises private catered events if the licensee has a serious violation history at temporary off-premises private catered events within the past 36 months. 

 (11) When the Commission approves a written plan under this rule, the licensee must follow that written plan. Failure to follow that written plan is a Category III violation. 

 (12) If the licensee fails to prevent minors from gaining access to alcoholic beverages or fails to prevent minors from gaining access to any portion of the temporary off-premises private catered event’s licensed premises prohibited to minors, the Commission may immediately prohibit minors from the licensed premises or portion(s) of the premises. 

 (13) When the Commission inactivates an application under this rule, the inactivation is not subject to the requirements of ORS chapter 183. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 471.030, 471.040, 471.730(1) & 471.730(5) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 471.184 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 203-2022, amend filed 12/19/2022, effective 02/01/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 22-2021, amend filed 12/30/2021, effective 01/01/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 1-2009, f. 3-17-09, cert. ef. 4-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 19-2000, f. 12-6-00, cert. ef. 1-1-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
