



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 246 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC CONTRACTING 
 125-246-0351 
 Acquiring Services before Obtaining Requisite Approvals of a Personal Services Contract
 
 
 (1) Application. For the purposes of this Rule only, "Personal Services" includes Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning or Land Surveying Services, and Related Services. “Requisite approvals” are defined in OAR 125-246-0350. 

 (2) Personal Services may be performed before all requisite approvals are obtained under a Personal Services Contract if the Personal Services Contract is exempt from the prohibition against services being performed before review for legal sufficiency is obtained under ORS 291.047(6). 

 (3) The process set forth in this Rule is intended to allow Authorized Agencies to acquire services before obtaining all requisite approvals for those Personal Services Contracts that call for payments of less than the Threshold for legal sufficiency review by the Attorney General. 

 (4) The Chief Procurement Officer may authorize an Authorized Agency to acquire services before obtaining all requisite approvals when circumstances exist that require prompt action to protect the interests of the State. An Authorized Agency may seek such authorization for a Personal Services Contract or a class of Personal Services Contracts to address specific recurring needs to acquire services on short notice. An Authorized Agency seeking the State Chief Procurement Officer’s authorization must describe particular circumstances that make it impracticable to obtain all requisite approvals before acquiring services. The State Chief Procurement Officer will only authorize an Authorized Agency to acquire services before obtaining all requisite approvals if the Authorized Agency follows the procedures set forth in this Rule. The State Chief Procurement Officer’s authorization according to this Rule only allows the Authorized Agency to acquire services before obtaining all requisite approvals. It does not authorize the Authorized Agency to make any payments before obtaining all requisite approvals. 

 (5) The Authorized Agency seeking the State Chief Procurement Officer’s authorization to acquire services before obtaining all requisite approvals must provide: 

 (a) Written findings to the State Chief Procurement Officer that describe the specific recurring circumstances that require the Authorized Agency to take prompt action to protect the interests of the State because they create substantial risk of loss, damage, interruption of services or threat to public health or safety. The Authorized Agency must also describe why, under these specific circumstances, it will be impracticable to obtain all requisite approvals before acquiring services; 

 (b) The Personal Services Contract form that the Authorized Agency will use for the Contract entered into after acquiring services, but before making payments. 

 (c) Documentation demonstrating that the Authorized Agency has established procedures to administer the Contract or class of Contracts, for which it seeks authorization. 

 (6) The State Chief Procurement Officer after review of the material required by Section (5) above, may authorize the Authorized Agency to acquire the specific services under the specific circumstances described in response to Section (5)(a) above before obtaining all requisite approvals. If the State Chief Procurement Officer provides authorization, the State Chief Procurement Officer will do so in Writing, subject to any conditions or limitations the State Chief Procurement Officer deems appropriate, including but not limited to the duration of the authorization, and any other terms and conditions the State Chief Procurement Officer may determine are appropriate. 

 (7) If Authorized Agency acquires services before obtaining all requisite approvals when authorized by the State Chief Procurement Officer, the Authorized Agency, as soon as practicable after acquiring the services, must enter into a Written Contract in the form submitted by the Authorized Agency and approved by the State Chief Procurement Officer. The Authorized Agency must not revise the terms of the approved Contract form submitted by Authorized Agency without the State Chief Procurement Officer’s approval. 

 (8) The Authorized Agency must not make any payments for services before obtaining all requisite approvals. 

 (9) The State Chief Procurement Officer authorization to perform services before obtaining all requisite approvals does not exempt the Authorized Agency from obtaining legal sufficiency review, if required under the provisions of ORS 291.047. 

 (10) An Authorized Agency authorized to perform services before obtaining all requisite approvals must follow all applicable screening and selection requirements unless otherwise exempt from those requirements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065(5)(a) & 279A.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279A.140(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 5-2023, amend filed 12/29/2023, effective 01/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 3-2014, f. 12-29-14, cert. ef. 1-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 3-2012, f. 11-29-12, cert. ef. 12-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 11-2009, f. 12-30-09, cert. ef. 1-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DAS 4-2004, f. 11-23-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
