



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 17 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS UNABLE TO MEET TPR REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE HIGHWAYS 
 731-017-0040 
 ODOT Review and Report to Commission 
 
 (1) Within 30 days following receipt of a complete application or an incomplete application presented as written, the Director shall submit to the Commission a report and recommendation on the application.  (2) The Director’s report shall:  (a) Identify the applicant and the nature of the application.  (b) Identify the ODOT Region from which the application originated and the number of applications within that Region that have already been approved under this division during the current calendar year.  (c) Address consistency with the applicable submittal criteria in section 0020 of this division and with the review criteria in this section.  (d) Include ODOT’s recommendation on the application and the reasons for that recommendation.  (3) In evaluating applications submitted pursuant to this division, the Director shall consider the following:  (a) Whether the economic development project for which amendments are needed can reasonably comply with the requirements in OAR 660-012-0060 without having to apply for a time extension or alternative funding plan or a proposal to adjust or allow use of alternative traffic performance measures under this division.  (b) Based on consultation with Business Oregon, the net long-term primary job creation benefits of the proposed economic development project. Any written materials from Business Oregon will be attached to the ODOT Director’s report.  (c) The adverse impacts approval of the proposed project would have on state transportation facilities, measured in terms of the degree of divergence from existing state highway traffic performance measures, the length of time the divergence would remain in effect, the scale of short and long-term impacts on existing users of the facilities, the safety of users of the facilities, and impacts on neighboring communities.  (d) Local government and private sector commitments to contribute financially to needed state highway and local road improvements that will mitigate state highway impacts.  (e) Local government and private sector commitments to employ interim measures where appropriate, including but not limited to phasing of development or trip caps.  (f) Local government and private sector commitments to employ techniques that reduce vehicle trips on the system as appropriate for the scale and location of the development, including but not limited to transportation demand management, carpooling, transit and land use management methods.  (g) The level of public review and local government coordination associated with an application filed pursuant to this division.  (4) In addition to the conditions of approval required under section 0045 of this division, the Director may recommend conditions of approval for the Commission to attach to a decision approving an application filed pursuant to this division. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 367.850 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 367.850 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 3-2010, f. & cert. ef. 12-22-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
