



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0256 
 Stationary Compactors, Self-Contained Compactors, and Balers 
 
 This applies to all stationary compactors, self-contained compactors, and balers.  You must comply with:  Subdivision 2/D Walking/Working Surfaces, for ladders, stairs and other walking/working surfaces.  Subdivision 2/J 1910.147, Control of Hazardous Energy, for maintenance, servicing, and repair activities.  Subdivision 2/J 437-002-0146 Confined Spaces for confined space hazards.  Subdivision 2/O Machine Guarding for any guarding hazard not covered in these rules.  YOUR RESPONSIBILITY:  To protect employees from hazards associated with stationary compactors, self-contained compactors, and balers.  Operators and other employees  (1) You must:  Train and supervise equipment operators. Training must include information from the operation manual, when available, and these rules.  Document the name(s) of the trainer and trainees along with the date of the training.  Provide supervision to ensure employees follow correct operating procedures.  Instruct all employees how to identify and report exposure to hazards.  Prohibit wearing loose clothing, jewelry, or long loose hair that can become entangled in the equipment.  Installation, inspection and maintenance  (2) You must:  Install the equipment according to the manufacturer’s instructions.  Keep the equipment in safe working order.  Maintain the equipment according to manufacturer’s recommendations when available.  Follow the manufacturer’s recommendations for inspecting and testing. If there are no manufacturer’s recommendations available, inspect and test annually.  Keep a record of inspections for a minimum of two years.  Make sure that modifications do not diminish the original level of safety.  Add safety precautions, resulting from modifications, to the operation manual, when available, and to the training information.  Not allow the use of damaged, malfunctioning, or defective equipment.  Ensure only qualified employees, trained and authorized by your management, or authorized service technicians are allowed to maintain and repair the equipment. Qualified employees must demonstrate a proficiency in maintaining and repairing the equipment.  Guard moving parts  (3) You must:  Have guards that prevent body parts from getting caught by moving parts during the equipment’s cycle.  Use sustained manual pressure controls when not using point of operation guarding.  Make certain the point of operation is visible to the operator when using sustained manual pressure controls.  Make sure the equipment manufactured with interlocks will not function with the gate or door open.  Controls  (4) You must:  Clearly label the function of each control.  Make sure controls are not subject to unintentional activation.  Have stop controls that are red, a different size than other controls, and not recessed.  Keep emergency stop controls readily accessible to the operator, or within 3 feet of the operating feed area or chute opening at equipment location.  Provide a way to stop the complete operation of the baler or compactor at any point in the cycle.  Require horizontal balers equipped with an automatic start, to have a minimum 5-second audible and visual warning when the startup control is activated. Before the main motor starts, there must be visual warning lasting for not less than 10 additional seconds.  No alarm or delay is required when the horizontal baler is restarting from sleep mode.  Access points for Maintenance or Repairs  (5) You must:  Make sure access covers  Have functional interlocks or locks that require hand tools for removal.  Have warning signs on compactors that read:  Restricted Area, Authorized Employees Only,  Warning – Stand Clear When Tailgate or Container is in Motion and During Loading and Unloading,  Warning – This Compactor Starts Automatically,  Warning – Gate Must Be Closed Before Operating This Compactor.  Have warning signs on balers that read:  CAUTION – Stand clear When Bale is Ejected,  WARNING – This Baler Starts Automatically,  DANGER – High Voltage,  DANGER – Disconnect and Lock Out Power Before Opening This Panel  Replace missing or defaced signs.  Note: Additional sign requirements are in ANSI Z245-2-1997 7.10 compactors and ANSI Z245.5 –1997 5.1.6. balers.  Immediate work area  (6) You must:  Not allow clutter or waste material that causes a safety hazard or obstructs safe operation to accumulate around the operator station.  Include warning signs at all loading points and the point of operation on automatic cycling equipment indicating that the baler or compactor starts automatically. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 6-2012, f. 9-28-12, cert. ef. 4-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 OSHA 7-2009, f. 7-7-09, cert. ef. 7-21-09 
OSHA 6-1994, f. & cert. ef. 9-30-94, Renumbered from 437-002-0242(1) 
APD 22-1988, f. 12-30-88, cert. ef. 1-1-89; 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
