



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 38 DIRECT ACCESS REGULATION 
 860-038-0380 
 Aggregation
 
 
 (1) For purposes of ensuring compliance with Commission standards for consumer protection, an aggregator must be registered by the Commission to combine retail electricity consumers in the service territory of an electric company into a buying group for the purchase of electricity and related services. 

 (2) The initial registration fee is $50. 

 (3) The annual renewal fee is $25. 

 (4) At a minimum, the aggregator must supply the following information: 

 (a) Name of aggregator; 

 (b) Name, address, and phone number of the aggregator’s regulatory contact; and 

 (c) A signed statement from an authorized representative of the aggregator declaring that all information provided is true and correct. 

 (5) At a minimum, the aggregator must attest that it will: 

 (a) Furnish to consumers a toll-free number or local number that is staffed during normal business hours to enable a consumer to resolve complaints or billing disputes and a statement of the aggregator’s terms and conditions that detail the consumer’s rights and responsibilities; 

 (b) Comply with all applicable state and federal laws, rules, and Commission orders applicable to aggregators; and 

 (c) Adequately respond to Commission information requests applicable to aggregators and related to the provisions of this rule within 10 business days. 

 (6) An aggregator must take all reasonable steps, including corrective actions, to ensure that persons or agents hired by the aggregator, including but not limited to officers, directors, agents, employees, representatives, successors, and assigns adhere at all times to the terms of all state and federal laws, rules, and Commission orders applicable to aggregators. 

 (7) Annually, 30 days prior to expiration, a registered aggregator must notify the Commission that it will not be renewing its registration or it must renew its registration by submitting an application for renewal that includes an update of information specified in section (4) of this rule. The aggregator must state that it continues to attest that it will meet the requirements of section (5) of this rule. The authorized representative of the aggregator must state that all information provided is true and correct and sign the renewal application. The renewal is granted for a period of one year from the expiration date of the prior registration. 

 (8) No aggregator may make material misrepresentations in consumer solicitations, agreements, or in the administration of consumer contracts. Aggregators may not engage in dishonesty, fraud, or deceit that benefits the aggregator or disadvantages consumers. 

 (9) An aggregator must promptly report to the Commission any circumstances or events that materially alter information provided to the Commission in the registration process. 

 (10) The electric company must allow aggregation of electricity loads, pursuant to ORS 757, which may include aggregation of demand for other services available under direct access. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & 757.600 - 757.667 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 2-2001, f. & cert. ef. 1-5-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
