



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 204 MEDIA ACCESS 
 291-204-0060 
 Media Access to Designated Inmates 
 
 (1) Interviews with designated Department inmates requested by the media may be approved by the functional unit manager, with the inmate’s consent, if in the judgment of the functional unit manager the interview is consistent with the Department’s mission and goals and the safe, secure and orderly management and operation of the facility, and is not inconsistent with the inmate’s correctional planning and rehabilitation.  (2) Media interviews of designated Department inmates will be treated as special visits in accordance with the Department’s rule on Special Visits (OAR 291-127-280).  (3) Interviews of Special Status Inmates:  (a) Media interviews with the following inmates generally will not be permitted:  (A) Inmates who are assigned to special housing units;  (B) Inmates who are the subject of an internal or external investigation;  (C) Inmates who are on intake status;  (D) Inmates who are on basic visiting status; and  (E) Inmates under 18 years of age.  (b) Exceptions may be made by the functional unit manager, in his or her sole discretion, in extraordinary circumstances.  (c) Media requests to interview a designated inmate who is assigned to a Special Management Unit or an Infirmary may be approved by the functional unit manager only if the interview is also approved by the Department’s attending physician, facility Correctional Treatment Services Manager or facility Health Services Manager. If approved, the interview will be conducted in a manner that protects the privacy interests of the designated inmate and other inmate patients.  (4) Interstate Compact boarders are subject generally to the media access rules, policies and directives of the sending state.  (5) Department inmates in the physical custody of the Oregon Youth Authority are subject to the media access rules, policies and directives of the Oregon Youth Authority.  (6) A media representative who desires to interview a designated Department inmate must submit an interview request in the same manner provided for requesting access to Department facilities set forth in OAR 291-204-0050 (Requesting Access to Facilities and Programs).  (7) Before an approved interview of a designated inmate is permitted to take place, the inmate must sign a media consent form (CD 297).  (8) Conduct of the Interview:  (a) The interview will take place in a designated area unless other arrangements are made in advance.  (b) The PIO may set reasonable limits for the length of the interview.  (c) Requests for interviews to be broadcast live will not be permitted.  (d) Requests for inmates to take part in a taped audience participation show generally will not be permitted. Exceptions may be made by the functional unit manager, in his or her sole discretion, in extraordinary circumstances.  (e) Other facility, program or staff access that is separate from the interview may be granted with prior approval of the PIO.  (9) Inmates may not accept compensation or remuneration for agreeing to an interview or participating in a media-related activity.  (10) Inmates may not use the media or enter into agreements with the media to pass along messages or otherwise communicate with their families, victims, coconspirators or any person other than a general reading/viewing/listening audience.  (11) Media representatives may not accompany an inmate visitor, an attorney or others on an inmate visit. Exceptions may be made by the functional unit manager, in his or her sole discretion, in extraordinary circumstances.  (12) Media representatives may not attend depositions of Department inmates conducted in a DOC facility. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 8-2006, f. & cert. ef. 8-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
