



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 84 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC PROGRAMS 
 860-084-0195 
 Mechanisms for Reserving Capacity 
 
 (1) Annual capacity reservations must be made as follows:  (a) For small-scale systems: 100 percent of the allocated capacity will be awarded to the net metering option by lottery or as otherwise directed by Commission order.  (b) For medium-scale systems: The allocated capacity will be divided between the net metering and the competitive bidding options as directed by Commission order.  (c) For large-scale systems: 100 percent of the allocated capacity will be awarded by competitive bidding.  (2) Reservations made by either competitive bidding or lottery must be awarded within each system size independent of the other classes.  (3) The following governs capacity distributed through a lottery:  (a) Electric companies must conduct a lottery-based capacity reservation process on April 1 and October 1 during each of the remaining pilot years unless otherwise directed by Commission order.  (b) Electric companies must collect reservation applications for 24 hours before selecting winning participants unless otherwise directed by Commission order.  (c) Electric companies must notify winning lottery participants no later than three business days after the close of the reservation application window. Deposits are due within three days of this notification. Electric companies then have 15 days to confirm that reservation applications conform to all program rules.  (d) In any enrollment period, if the eligible capacity is not reserved through the lottery, the remaining capacity will be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. Any remaining capacity thereafter will roll over to the next capacity reservation period unless otherwise directed by Commission order.  (4) The following governs capacity distributed through a competitive bidding option:  (a) Electric companies must issue a Request for Proposal for:  (A) Large-scale bid option systems no later than 30 business days prior to April 1 of each pilot year or as otherwise directed by Commission order; and  (B) Medium-scale bid option systems no later than 30 business days prior to October 1 of each pilot year or as otherwise directed by Commission order.  (b) Electric companies must set the bidder response deadline for  (A) large-scale bid option systems no later than April 1 of each pilot year and  (B) for medium-scale bid option systems no later than October 1 of each pilot year or as otherwise directed by Commission order.  (c) Electric companies must award capacity to winning bidders no later than fifteen business days after the bidder response deadline. Selection of winning bids must be based solely on the bidder’s volumetric incentive rate bid.  (d) If capacity remains available after all bids are awarded, then the remaining capacity will roll over to the next appropriate bid-option enrollment window as defined by subsection (4)(a) of this rule.  (e) A medium- and large-scale bid-option reservation begins when the bidder receives notification of a winning bid.  (5) Electric companies must require a capacity reservation deposit of $500 or $20 per kilowatt of the proposed system capacity, whichever is larger.  (6) Capacity reservations are non-transferable from one customer generator to another.  (7) A capacity reservation starts upon notification by the electric company to the successful program participant that capacity has been awarded. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 7-2011, f. & cert. ef. 9-30-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 2-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
