



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-0350 
 Orchard Ladders 
 
 Definition: Orchard Ladder. A self-supporting portable tripod ladder of fixed length. It has two front side rails and a single back support leg.  (1) Application. This covers the maintenance, use and care of orchard ladders.  (2) Maintenance.  (a) Each step of wooden orchard ladders must have these reinforcements:  (A) A steel rod not less than 0.160 inch in diameter, that passes through metal washers big enough to prevent pressing into the side rails, and through a truss block between the rod and the center of each step; or  (B) A metal angle brace on each end firmly secured to the steps and side rails; or  (C) Construction of equivalent strength and safety.  (b) If the ladder has rod reinforcement, the bottom step must also have a metal angle brace on each end securely attached to the bottom step and side rails.  (c) All steps 27 inches or longer must have a metal angle brace at each end securely attached to the step and rail.  (d) The minimum width between side rails at the highest step for standing, inside to inside, is 9-1/2 inches. From top to bottom the side rails must spread at least an average of 2-1/2 inches for each foot of ladder length.  (e) All orchard ladders must have a top with tightly secured wood or metal brackets or fittings, side rails and back leg. The back leg must swing freely without excessive play or wear at the joints.  (f) Do not make ladders by fastening cleats across a single rail.  (g) There must be no dents, breaks or bends in the side rails or rungs.  (3) Training.  (a) Prior to assigning an employee to work with orchard ladders, the employer must assure that they have the necessary skills and knowledge to use the ladder safely; or  (b) The employer must train new employees about the requirements of this standard and the special procedures and cautions associated with using an orchard ladder.  (4) Use and care.  (a) Do not use orchard ladders longer than 16 feet.  (b) Do not use the top as a step.  (c) Do not allow more than one person at a time on ladders.  (d) Do not step or jump between two or more erected ladders.  (e) Do not use ladders to gain additional height from already elevated surfaces like scaffolds, truck beds, vehicle bodies, tractor scoops or boom truck buckets.  (f) Inspect ladders before each use. Do not use any with defects, loose, warped, bent or broken parts. Tag these ladders, “Dangerous, Do Not Use” until they are fixed.  (g) Do not use metal ladders or wood ladders with vertical metal parts for electrical work or where they may contact electric conductors. This type ladder must have markings reading “WARNING — do not use around energized electrical equipment” or words of equal meaning. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
