



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-1020 
 Personal Fall Protection 
 
 NOTE: The general requirements for Protective Equipment in 437-004-1005 apply to Personal Fall Protection.  (1) Definitions. Competent person — is a person who because of training and experience, can identify existing and predictable hazards in equipment, material, conditions or practices and who has the knowledge and authority to take corrective steps. Lanyard — A flexible line connected at one end to a body belt or harness and at the other end to an anchorage. Personal fall arrest system means a system used to stop an employee in a fall from a working level. It consists of an anchorage, connectors, body harness and may include a lanyard, deceleration device, lifeline, or suitable combinations of these. Personal fall protection systems include arrest systems, restraint systems or positioning device systems. Personal fall restraint system means a fall protection system that prevents the user from falling any distance. The system is comprised of either a body belt or body harness, along with an anchorage, connectors and other necessary equipment. The other components typically include a lanyard, and may also include a lifeline and other devices. Positioning device system means a body belt or body harness system rigged to allow an employee to be supported on an elevated vertical surface, such as a wall, and work with both hands free while leaning. Qualified person — is a person who has a recognized degree, certification, professional standing, knowledge, training or experience; and has successfully demonstrated the ability to perform the work, or solve or resolve problems relating to the work, subject matter, or project.  (2) Protect all employees from falls when working:  (a) On unguarded surfaces more than 10 feet above a lower level; and  (b) Above open pits, tanks or dangerous equipment at any height.  NOTE: The requirements to protect employees from falls when working on unguarded surfaces more than 10 feet above a lower level does  NOT apply when the work is of limited duration and limited exposure, and it is equally or more hazardous to set up or use a fall protection system. Examples include work on haystacks, stacked silage, and stacked Christmas trees in open, outdoor areas.  (3) Personal fall protection systems must use:  (a) Lanyards and vertical lifelines that have a minimum breaking strength of 5,000 pounds.  (b) Connectors that are drop forged, pressed or formed steel, or equivalent materials.  (c) Connectors that have a corrosion-resistant finish, and with smooth surfaces and edges to prevent damage to interfacing parts of the system.  (d) Dee-rings, snap hooks or carabiners that have a minimum tensile strength of 5,000 lbs. and that are proof-tested to a minimum tensile load of 3,600 pounds without cracking, breaking, or taking permanent deformation.  (e) Snap hooks and carabiners that are self-locking or double-locking and sized to be compatible with the member to which they are connected.  (4) Use lifelines, body belts or safety harnesses and lanyards only for the purpose they were intended. Remove fall protection equipment from service after it has been subjected to a load.  (5) Anchorages:  (a) Anchorages used for attachment of personal fall arrest equipment must be capable of supporting at least 5,000 pounds per employee attached, or must be designed, installed, and used as follows:  (A) Under the supervision of a qualified person; and  (B) As part of a complete personal fall arrest system which maintains a safety factor of at least two.  (b) Anchorages used for attachment of personal fall restraint or positioning device systems must be capable of supporting 3000 lbs. per employee attached, or be designed, installed and used as follows:  (A) Under the supervision of a qualified person; and  (B) As part of a complete personal fall restraint or positioning device system which maintains a safety factor of at least two.  (6) Horizontal lifelines must be designed, installed, and used, under the supervision of a qualified person, as part of a complete personal fall arrest system, which maintains a safety factor of at least two.  (7) Fall arrest and fall restraint systems.  (a) Fall arrest systems must be rigged so that an employee can neither free fall more than 6 feet, nor contact any lower level.  (b) Fall arrest systems, when stopping a fall, must limit maximum arresting force on an employee to 1,800 pounds  (c) Fall arrest systems must bring an employee to a complete stop and limit maximum deceleration distance an employee travels to 3.5 feet.  (d) Fall restraint systems must be rigged to prevent the user from falling any distance.  (e) Positioning device systems must be rigged such that an employee cannot free fall more than 2 feet.  (8) Personal fall protection systems must be inspected by a competent person prior to each use for wear, damage and other deterioration, and defective components must be removed from service.  (9) When employees use personal fall arrest systems, the employer must provide for prompt rescue of employees in the event of a fall or ensure that employees are able to rescue themselves. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-2012, f. 9-19-12, cert. ef. 1-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
