



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0210 
 Additional Oregon Rules for Compressed Air and Compressed Gas Equipment 
 
 (1) Air and Gas Compressors — General:  (a) Workers shall not use compressed gases to clean clothing which is being worn nor shall it be intentionally directed at any other person;  NOTE: Use of compressed air for cleaning work and work areas is also prohibited except under special conditions. See OAR chapter 437, division 2/P, Hand and Portable Powered Tools and Other Hand-Held Equipment.  (b) Hose connections shall be securely made and maintained in safe working condition. Effective means shall be used to prevent hose from whipping.  (2) Piping Systems:  (a) All piping systems and their component parts which are installed to carry air, steam, or other material at more than atmospheric pressure shall be of adequate design and strength to safely withstand pressures to be placed upon them without the resulting stresses exceeding the allowable stress for the material used in their construction. The allowable stresses to be used shall be determined by referring to recognized standards for materials and design as developed by the American National Standards Institute;  (b) The only non-metallic pipe acceptable for pressure line service with gaseous substances is that which is recommended and listed by its manufacturer as designed for compressed air or gas service. PVC pipe can only be used for compressed air if it is buried or encased;  (c) All compressed air or gas piping systems which use plastic pipe must be “project specific”; that is, designed by a competent person to specifications suited for a particular application or project. Design and operational specifications and information must be kept with the system for as long as it is in use;  (d) Only a competent person(s) may install any compressed air or gas piping system described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.  (3) High Temperature Piping:  (a) All steam and other high temperature pipe lines within seven feet of the floor or work platform or passageway shall be covered with non-combustible insulating material or otherwise protected against accidental contact with persons;  (b) Steam hose connections shall be securely made and maintained in safe working condition. Effective means shall be used to prevent hose from whipping. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 10-1993, f. 7-29-93, cert. ef. 9-15-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
