



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0040 
 Quality Assurance and Safety Checks
 
 
 (1) Periodic quality assurance checks must be performed on all therapeutic radiation machines subject to OAR 333-123-0025 at intervals in accordance with industry standards of practice; and 

 (a) Quality assurance checks must include determination of central axis radiation output and a representative sampling of periodic quality assurance checks in accordance with the written procedures established by the Qualified Medical Physicist. 

 (b) Quality assurance checks required in this rule must be conducted using a dosimetry system that has been intercompared within the previous 12 months with the dosimetry system described in OAR 333-123-0010(5). 

 (c) The quality assurance procedures established by the Qualified Medical Physicist must: 

 (A) Specify the frequency at which tests or measurements are to be conducted; and 

 (B) Specify equipment required for the test; and 

 (C) Include the name of personnel conducting the test; and 

 (D) Include the acceptable tolerance for each parameter measured in the quality assurance check and the response triggered by test results that exceed tolerance levels. 

 (d) The registrant must have the Qualified Medical Physicist review and sign the results of each radiation output quality assurance check within one month of the date that the check was performed. The results of each periodic radiation output check must be reviewed according to the following procedures: 

 (A) The Radiation Therapy Physician and Qualified Medical Physicist must be immediately notified if any parameter is not within its acceptable tolerance. The therapeutic radiation machine must not be used clinically until the Qualified Medical Physicist has determined that all parameters are within their acceptable tolerances; and 

 (B) Notwithstanding the other requirements of this rule, the registrant must ensure that no therapeutic radiation machine is used to administer radiation to humans unless the quality assurance checks required by section (1) of this rule have been performed within the 30 day period immediately prior to said administration. 

 (2) Safety Checks. Therapeutic radiation machines subject to OAR 333-123-0025 of this rule must have applicable safety quality assurance check in accordance with industry standards of practice and performed at intervals not to exceed one year to ensure proper functioning and operation of: 

 (a) Electrical interlocks at each external beam radiation therapy room entrance; and 

 (b) The "BEAM-ON" and termination switches; and 

 (c) Beam condition indicator lights on the access door(s), control console, and in the radiation therapy room; and 

 (d) Viewing and auditory systems; and 

 (e) If applicable, electrically operated treatment room doors from inside and outside the treatment room; and 

 (f) All emergency cutoff switches. 

 (3) The registrant must promptly repair any system identified in this rule that is not operating properly. 

 (4) The registrant must maintain a record of each quality assurance check required by section (1) of this rule for three years. The record must include: 

 (a) The date of the quality assurance check; 

 (b) The manufacturer's name, model number, and serial number of the therapeutic radiation machine control panel; 

 (c) The record must also include the manufacturer's name, model number and serial number and calibration date for the instrument(s) used to measure the radiation output of the therapeutic radiation machine; and 

 (d) The signature of the individual who performed the periodic quality assurance check. 

 (5) Quality assurance for a conventional or virtual simulator must include acceptance testing and periodic verification of system performance in accordance with industry standards of practice for a conventional simulator or computed tomography simulators. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 – 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 81-2021, amend filed 11/19/2021, effective 11/23/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 23-2006, f. & cert. ef. 10-19-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
