



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-1036 
 Proper Storage of Drugs 
 
 (1) A pharmacy must maintain proper storage of all drugs. This includes, but is not limited to the following:  (a) All drugs must be stored according to manufacturer’s published or USP guidelines.  (b) All drugs must be stored in appropriate conditions of temperature, light, humidity, sanitation, ventilation, and space.  (c) Appropriate storage conditions must be provided for, including during transfers between facilities and to patients.  (d) A pharmacy must quarantine drugs which are outdated, adulterated, misbranded or suspect. Cold Storage and Monitoring.  (2) A pharmacy must store all drugs at the proper temperature according to manufacturer’s published guidelines (pursuant to FDA package insert or USP guidelines).  (a) All drug refrigeration systems must:  (A) Maintain refrigerated products between 2 to 8 °C (35 to 46 °F); frozen products between -25 to -10 °C (-13 to 14 °F); or as specified by the manufacturer.  (B) Utilize a centrally placed, accurate, and calibrated thermometer;  (C) Be dedicated to pharmaceuticals only; and  (D) Be measured continuously and documented either manually twice daily to include minimum, maximum and current temperatures; or with an automated system capable of creating a producible history of temperature readings.  (b) A pharmacy must adhere to a monitoring plan, which includes, but is not limited to:  (A) Documentation of training of all personnel;  (B) Maintenance of manufacturer recommended calibration of thermometers;  (C) Maintenance of records of temperature logs for a minimum of three years;  (D) Documentation of excursion detail, including, but not limited to, event date and name of persons(s) involved in excursion responses;  (E) Documentation of action(s) taken, including decision to quarantine product for destruction, or determination that it is safe for continued use. This documentation must include details of the information source;  (F) A written emergency action plan; and  (G) Routine preventative maintenance and evaluation of refrigeration equipment and monitoring equipment.  (3) Vaccine Drug Storage:  (a) A pharmacy that stores vaccines must comply with section two of this rule and the following:  (A) Vaccines must be stored in the temperature stable sections of the refrigerator;  (B) A centrally placed and accurate buffered probe thermometer, such as glycol or glass beads, calibrated within a plus or minus 0.5 °C variance must be utilized;  (C) Each freezer and refrigerator compartment must have its own exterior door and independent thermostat control;  (D) A system of continuous temperature monitoring with automated data logging and physical confirmation must be utilized. Documentation of the temperature of each active storage unit must be logged at least twice daily, data must be downloaded weekly, and system validations must be conducted quarterly; and  (E) Must adhere to a written quality assurance process to avoid temperature excursions.  (4) A retail drug outlet may store drugs in another location that is registered as a Drug Room and meets all Pharmacy drug storage and security requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 & 689.325 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 2-23-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 3-2015, f. 7-1-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
