



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 250 WATER DISTRIBUTION 
 690-250-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The following definitions apply in OAR 690, division 250.  (1) “Appropriator”: Water user, trustee or agent in charge of the works.  (2) “Basin Program”: A program adopted by the Water Resources Commission to establish water management policies and objectives for a specified basin. Basin programs establish rules for appropriation and use of surface and ground water within each river basin. Water use regulations include classification of surface and ground waters according to permitted uses, the withdrawal or surface and ground waters from further appropriation, the reservation of waters for specific future uses, and the establishment of minimum perennial streamflow requirements.  (3) “Beneficial Use”: Reasonably efficient use of water without waste for a purpose consistent with the laws and the best interests of the people of the state.  (4) “Commission”: Water Resources Commission.  (5) “Compensation”: Salary and related payroll expenditures.  (6) “Enforceable Rotation Agreement”: Written agreement between two or more appropriators to rotate the use of water, to bring about more economical use of the available supply to which they are collectively entitled.  (7) “Exempt Uses”: Uses of water for which no registration, certificate of registration, application for a permit, permit, certificate of completion of water right certificate is required.  (8) “Expenses”: Includes but is not limited to, lodging, meals, mileage, and supplies.  (9) “Irrigation Seasons”: Time period(s) during the year when a water right for irrigation purposes can be legally used.  (10) “Legally Stored Water”: Any water impounded in a reservoir under the provisions of an established right to store water.  (11) “Point of Diversion”: For surface water, the point at which water is physically diverted from the natural source of manmade works for the beneficial use and, unless specified otherwise, includes point of appropriation as in a well or ground water development.  (12) “Rate and Duty of Water for Irrigation”: Maximum quantity of water in cubic feet per second or gallons per minute (rate) and the total quantity of water in acre-feet per acre per year that may be diverted for irrigation (duty).  (13) “Reservoir”: A natural or artificial lake or pond in which water is collected for beneficial use or purpose.  (14) “Substantial or undue interference”: As defined in OAR 690-008-0001.  (15) “Transfer”: Legal process for change of use, change in place of use, or change of point of diversion of a water right.  (16) “Wasteful Use of Ground Water”: As defined in OAR 690-008-0001.  (17) “Water Right Subject to a Transfer”: Right established by a court decree or evidenced by a valid water right certificate, or a right for which proof of beneficial use of water under a water right permit or transfer has been submitted to and approved by the Director but for which a certificate has not been issued. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 24-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
