



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Pharmacy 
 Chapter 855 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 41 OPERATION OF PHARMACIES 
 855-041-6530 
 Robotic Distribution Systems 
 
 (1) A robotic drug distribution system used in a central pharmacy must be in a secure area under the control of the PIC and must be connected with the system that contains the patient’s drug profile.  (2) The pharmacy must maintain the following documentation for each system:  (a) Details of the equipment including manufacturer's name, model and serial number;  (b) A description of how the system is used;  (c) Policies and procedures that include:  (A) Quality assurance performed at least quarterly including a requirement that a pharmacist visually verifies the accuracy of the electronic or bar code labeling using an audit procedure that includes random sampling;  (B) Procedures for training personnel in safe system operation, security, accuracy, patient confidentiality, access and downtime procedures.  (3) All distribution records must be recorded electronically and retained for 3 years or as approved by the Board. Records must include:  (a) Identity of robotic drug distribution system accessed;  (b) Type of transaction;  (c) Date and time of transaction;  (d) Name, strength, dosage form, and quantity of the drug accessed;  (e) Identity of the patient for whom the drug was ordered;  (f) Any other information the PIC may deem necessary.  (4) Only a pharmacy technician, certified pharmacy technician, intern, pharmacist or a person designated by the PIC may have access to the system.  (5) Only a pharmacy technician, certified pharmacy technician, intern or pharmacist may stock drugs in the system.  (6) All drugs in the system must be packaged and labeled in accordance with state and federal laws and regulations.  (7) Controlled Substances:  (a) Controlled substances must be handled in accordance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations;  (b) Schedule III, IV and V drugs may be stocked in a robotic drug distribution system provided there is adequate security to limit access to those personnel designated by the PIC;  (c) Schedule II drugs may not be stocked in any robotic drug distribution system.  (8) Drugs prepared by a robotic system must be packaged and separated by patient or as approved by hospital protocol, prior to distribution for administration. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 689.205 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 689.155 & 689.508 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BP 3-2010, f. 4-29-10, cert. ef. 4-30-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
