



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Police 
 Oregon State Athletic Commission - Chapter 230 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 CONDUCT OF BOUT - MUAY THAI/ KICKBOXING 
 230-130-0560 
 Method of Counting; Knockdown; Knockout; Technical Draw 
 
 (1) When a competitor is knocked down, the referee shall order the opponent to retire to the farthest neutral corner of the ring, by pointing to the corner, and shall immediately begin the count over the competitor who is down. The referee shall audibly announce the passing of each second, accompanying the count with motions of his or her arm, with the downward motion indicating the end of each second. 

 (2) A knockdown is made by way of feet, knee, elbow or hand strike.  Tripping an opponent does not constitute a knockdown. 

 (3) The timekeeper, by effective signaling, shall give the referee the correct 1-second interval for the count. The referee’s count is the official count. Once the referee picks up the count from the timekeeper, the timekeeper shall cease counting. No competitor who is knocked down may be allowed to resume competing until the referee has finished counting to eight. The competitor may take the count either on the floor or standing. 

 (4) If the opponent fails to stay in the farthest corner, the referee shall cease counting until the opponent has returned to his or her corner and shall then go on with the count from the point at which it was interrupted. If the competitor who is down arises before the count of 10, the referee may step between the competitors long enough to assure himself or herself that the competitor who has just arisen is in condition to continue. If so assured, the referee shall, without loss of time, order both competitors to go on with the contest or exhibition. During the intervention by the referee, the striking of a blow by either competitor may be ruled a foul. 

 (5) When a competitor is knocked out, the referee shall perform a full 10-second count unless, in the judgment of the referee, the safety of the competitor would be jeopardized by such a count. If the competitor who is knocked down is still down when the referee calls the count of 10, the referee shall wave both arms to indicate that he or she has been knocked out. 

 (6) If both competitors go down at the same time, the count must be continued as long as one is still down. If both competitors remain down until the count of 10, the contest or exhibition must be stopped and the decision is a technical draw. 

 (7) If a competitor is down and the referee is in the course of counting at the end of a period of competitor, the bell indicating the end of the period of competitor must not be sounded, but the bell must be sounded as soon as the downed competitor regains his or her feet. 

 (8) When a competitor has been knocked down before the normal termination of a period of unarmed combat and the period of competitor terminates before he or she has arisen from the floor of the ring, the referee’s count must be continued. If the competitor who is down fails to arise before the count of 10, he or she is considered to have lost the contest or exhibition by a knockout in the round containing the period of unarmed combat that was just concluded. 

 (9) If a legal blow struck in the final seconds of a period of competitor causes a competitor to go down after the bell has sounded, that knockdown must be regarded as having occurred during the period of unarmed combat just ended and the appropriate count must continue. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 463.113 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 463.113 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAC 13-2018, adopt filed 01/09/2018, effective 01/09/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
