



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 MISCELLANEOUS, ORDERS IN OTHER THAN CONTESTED CASE 
 137-004-0090 
 Stay Request — Orders in Other than Contested Case 
 
 (1) Unless otherwise provided by law, any person who petitions for reconsideration may request the agency to stay the enforce-ment of the agency order that is the subject of the petition.  (2) The stay request shall contain:  (a) The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the request and of that person’s attorney, if any;  (b) If the agency order was in writing, the full title of the agency decision as it appears on the order and the date of the agency decision;  (c) A summary of the agency decision; and  (d) The name, address and telephone number of each other party to the agency proceeding. When the party was represented by an attorney in the proceeding, then the name, address and telephone number of the attorney shall be provided and the address and telephone number of the party may be omitted.  (e) A statement advising all persons whose names, addresses and telephone numbers are required to appear in the stay request as provided in subsection (2)(d) of this rule, that they may participate in the stay proceeding before the agency if they file a response in accordance with OAR 137-004-0095 within ten calendar days from delivery or mailing of the stay request to the agency;  (f) A statement of facts and reasons sufficient to show that the stay request should be granted because:  (A) The petitioner will suffer irreparable injury if the order is not stayed;  (B) There is a colorable claim of error in the order; and  (C) Granting the stay will not result in substantial public harm.  (g) A statement identifying any person, including the public, who may suffer injury if the stay is granted. If the purposes of the stay can be achieved with limitations or conditions that minimize or eliminate possible injury to other persons, petitioner shall propose such limitations or conditions. If the possibility of injury to other persons cannot be eliminated or minimized by appropriate limitation or conditions, petitioner shall propose an amount of bond, irrevocable letter of credit or other undertaking to be imposed on the petitioner should the stay be granted, explaining why that amount is reasonable in light of the identified potential injuries;  (h) A description of additional procedures, if any, the petitioner believes should be followed by the agency in determining the appropriateness of the stay request;  (i) An appendix containing evidence relied upon in support of the statement required under subsections (2)(f) and (g) of this rule.  (3) The request must be delivered or mailed to the agency and on the same date a copy delivered or mailed to all parties identified in the request as required by subsection (2)(d) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 9-2001, f. & cert. ef. 10-3-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
