



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 100 SELF-SUFFICIENCY TRUST FUND AND THE DISABILITY TRUST FUND 
 411-100-0040 
 Self-Sufficiency Trust Responsibilities (Private, Non-Profit Trust) 
 
 (1) The private, non-profit self-sufficiency trust shall have all responsibility for the solicitation and enrollment of participants into the State Self-Sufficiency Trust Fund. Specific responsibilities include:  (a) Explaining the private, non-profit trust and State Trust Fund activities to all family members approaching the private, non-profit trust;  (b) Enrolling those wanting to participate through an application process;  (c) Gathering the necessary assessment and evaluation data pertaining to the beneficiary;  (d) Meeting with the family members to refine and prioritize the services needs of the beneficiary;  (e) Developing a life care plan based on the assessment conducted, projecting the specific services required, dates of such services and projected costs of such services by developing a financial plan. The financial plan must itemize the means in which services outlined are to be funded through contributions to the private, non-profit trust;  (f) Developing and executing all necessary contractual and legal requirements between the sponsor of the beneficiary and the private, non-profit trust; and  (g) Before executing the Life Care Plan, the private, non-profit trust must have received final approval by the Division.  (2) The private, non-profit trust shall transmit and communicate to the Division the final, executed Life Care Plan and other related information developed by the trust.  (3) The private non-profit trust shall meet with the Division prior to the beginning of each fiscal year to determine the following:  (a) Specific beneficiaries enrolled in the private, non-profit trust whose financial target has been reached or will be reached in the upcoming fiscal year;  (b) Specific services requested by beneficiaries and sponsors;  (c) A list of qualified providers and services;  (d) The amount of funds that will be transferred to the State Trust Fund for supplementary services to be provided to the individual beneficiaries; and  (e) The amount of the federal and state assistance funding that will be committed to services for the State Trust Fund beneficiary in the upcoming fiscal year.  (4) The private, non-profit trust shall have all responsibility in managing its funds to provide for sufficient earnings and protect the principal amount deposited by the sponsors.  (5) The private, non-profit trust shall transfer prescribed funds to the State Trust Fund when the beneficiary is 18 years of age or older or is emancipated, or the parents of the beneficiary have died, or in cases of extreme, unforeseen hardship.  (6) The private, non-profit trust may request the return of the remaining money, including any accumulated interest, in the State Trust Fund account if the money in the account of a named beneficiary cannot be used for supplementary care, support or treatment of the beneficiary in a manner consistent with the agreement.  (7) The private, non-profit trust shall submit to the Division an annual audited financial statement performed by its independent auditors. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.730 and 410.732 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.730 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 4-1991, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
