



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 14 COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS 
 309-014-0030 
 Management of All Service Elements 
 
 All contractors providing community mental health service elements under a contract with the Division are required to meet the following standards for management:  (1) Fee Policy. For all community mental health service elements, except local administration and those provided by a public education district, the agency providing the service element shall:  (a) Determine the cost of each type of service element provided;  (b) Establish a schedule of fees for service elements based on the costs of the service elements, adjusted on the basis of the client's ability to pay;  (c) At the time the service elements is initiated, inform the client of the agency fee policy, the agency fee schedules, and the fee rate to be collected from the client in the event that third party payments do not cover the cost of the client's service elements;  (d) Billings for Title XIX funds shall in no case exceed the customary charges to private clients for any like item or service charged by the service element; and  (e) Charge fees for service elements as follows:  (A) Except where expressly prohibited by federal law or regulation, when third party payments do not cover the full fee for the service elements provided, charge the client or those legally responsible for the cost of the client's care, in an amount which is the lesser of:  (i) The balance of the fee charged to but not paid by the third party payor(s); or  (ii) A fee adjusted on the basis of the client's ability to pay.  (B) Charge any third party payor in the amount of the full fees for the service elements provided. Should the sum of any third party payments and client payments exceed the fee, a refund of the excess payment shall be given to the client.  (2) Quality Assurance. Each provider of community mental health and developmental disability service elements shall implement and maintain a quality assurance program.  (3) Internal Management. Each provider of CMHP service elements funded by the Division shall meet the following internal management standards:  (a) There shall be an up-to-date organization chart showing lines of authority and responsibility for the services within the agency;  (b) There shall be up-to-date, written position descriptions for all staff providing community mental health and developmental disability services;  (c) If four or more staff provide CMHP services, there shall be written personnel policies and procedures concerning:  (A) Recruitment and termination of employees;  (B) Compensation plan;  (C) Performance appraisals, promotions and merit increases, and staff development;  (D) Employee benefits; and  (E) Grievance procedures.  (d) Each employee providing CMHP services shall have the opportunity for in-service training with pay;  (e) There shall be up-to-date accounting records for each mental health service element accurately reflecting all revenue by source, all expenses by object of expense, and all assets, liabilities, and equities, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles and conforming to the requirements of OAR 309-013-0120 to 309-013-0220;  (f) There shall be written statements of policy and procedure as are necessary and useful to assure compliance with any administrative rule pertaining to fraud and embezzlement and abuse of patients, residents, and clients; and  (g) There shall be such other written statements of policy and procedure as are necessary and useful to enable the agency to accomplish its mental health service objectives and to meet the requirements of these rules and other applicable standards and rules. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 430.640 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.610 – 430.640 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 23-2016, f. & cert. ef. 12-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 MHD 13-2000, f. 9-15-00, cert. ef. 9-16-00 
MHD 14-1982, f. & cert. ef. 7-7-82, Renumbered from 309-014-0000(5) & (6) 
MHD 39, f. 5-20-76, cert. ef. 6-11-76 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
