



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 SPECIAL EDUCATION 
 581-015-2545 
 Administration of Regional Programs 
 
 (1) The Superintendent may provide services to eligible children on a regional basis to the extent possible with funds allocated for this purpose:  (a) The Superintendent determines the number of regions and their boundaries;  (b) The Superintendent selects a local school district, education service district, and/or county school district to serve as the Administrative Unit in each region;  (c) The Superintendent may designate a Department employee to give general coordination to regional programs;  (d) The Superintendent may appoint an advisory committee to provide policy direction for regional programs. This committee reports to the State Board of Education through the regional program coordinator.  (2) The Administrative Unit provides general management to the regional program by:  (a) Preparing a regional plan that will include administrative structure, provision of direct and consultation services to eligible children, their families and staff, inservice activities, supervision of instruction, subcontracting and budget;  (b) Serving as fiscal agent for the region including arrangement of subcontracts; preparation of budgets for the receipt of local, state, and federal funds; provision of reports regarding child data, progress, and services; and the management of all fiscal functions including but not limited to, business services;  (c) Selecting, hiring, and directing regional employees using funds granted for that purpose and making employee benefits consistent with other district employees;  (d) Appointing a regional coordinator who will give general direction to the regional program and act as liaison to the Department; and  (e) Appointing a Regional Advisory Council to provide advice to the Administrative unit on program and policy direction.  (3) The Regional Advisory Council consists of seven to eleven members representing each county in the region. At least one person must represent each of the following categories:  (a) Superintendent of an education service district or local school district;  (b) Special education supervisor or teacher of an education service district or local school district;  (c) Individual who supervises or provides early intervention or early childhood special education services;  (d) Director on board of an education service district or local school district;  (e) Individual with a disability or parent of an eligible child.  (f) Regular education teacher or building administrator.  (4) The Administrative Unit governing board will request names from each education service district, school district, county school district, and early intervention and early childhood special education program in the area served by the regional program and make appointments to the council. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 343.236 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 343.236 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 581-015-0292, ODE 10-2007, f. & cert. ef. 4-25-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 10-1996, f. & cert. ef. 6-26-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 27-1988, f. & cert. ef. 6-9-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
