



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 79 APPOINTING BLACK BEAR AND/OR COUGAR AGENTS 
 635-079-0010 
 Appointment 
 
 (1) To appoint a person as an agent under these rules, the Department and the person must enter into a signed agreement which (at minimum):  (a) Obligates the person to act on the Department’s behalf and subject to the Department’s direction and control;  (b) Limits the person, when acting on the Department’s behalf, to implementing the Department’s specific management programs, consistent with the Commission’s black bear management plan or Commission’s cougar management plan;  (c) Prohibits the person from engaging in any other hunting or pursuit while pursuing black bear or cougar on the Department’s behalf;  (d) Obligates the person to promptly inform his or her Department supervisor of any arrest, citation or conviction since application. The appointment is automatically suspended pending disposition of any arrest or citation;  (e) Automatically terminates the appointment if the person is convicted of a felony or any violation of animal cruelty, animal abuse, or domestic abuse laws; the person is convicted of any violation involving illegal drugs or alcohol abuse; the person is convicted of any violation of the wildlife laws; or if the person can no longer legally operate motor vehicles in Oregon;  (f) Automatically terminates the appointment if the Department determines that the person is not trustworthy, fails to carefully obey all directions from the Department, or engages in conduct that reflects poorly on the Department;  (g) Authorizes the person to pursue black bear and/or cougar with dogs at the direction of the Department and in an official capacity; and  (h) Obligates the person to follow all applicable safety and health rules while operating on the Department’s behalf.  (2) An agreement with a volunteer agent shall not authorize payment of any compensation or wages to the agent except for the following:  (a) The Department may compensate the agent for vehicle fuel cost incurred while acting for the Department; and  (b) The Department may compensate the agent for dog related expenses incurred while acting for the Department.  (3) An agreement with a person as a private contractor to assist the Department with black bear and/or cougar pursuit using dogs shall provide compensation as per state contracting requirements.  (4) Before pursuing black bear or cougar on the Department’s behalf, each agent shall complete an information and training session conducted by the Department. The session shall cover, at a minimum:  (a) Requirements for use of pursuit dogs, firearms, all terrain vehicles and snowmobiles;  (b) A code of conduct for volunteers working on the Department’s behalf;  (c) Information regarding the humane capture and euthanasia of wildlife;  (d) Identification of specific areas and boundaries where activities will be conducted; and  (e) Identification of specific timing of when activities will be conducted for the Department.  (5) All activities of agents will be reviewed at least annually.  (6) All agreements and contracts with agents will be available for public review at the Department’s main office in Salem.  (7) The Department may terminate appointment of any individual as an authorized volunteer or private contractor agent at any time or for any reason if it determines that the appointment no longer is in the best interest of the state of Oregon. Appointment as an agent conveys no rights or privileges other than those specifically outlined in the agreement or contract, all of which rights or privileges terminate immediately upon termination of the appointment of the agent. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.012, 496.138 & 498.164 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  HB 2971 (Ch.143 & OL 2007) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 12-2008, f. & cert. ef. 2-21-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
