



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 OREGON DEAF AND HARD OF HEARING SERVICES (ODHHS) ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
 411-019-0000 
 Purpose and Responsibilities 
 
 (1) The purpose of these rules is to establish responsibilities and membership for the Oregon Deaf and Hard of Hearing Services (ODHHS) advisory committee. The goal of ODHHS is to serve members of the public and state agencies by ensuring agency programs are available and accessible to individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing.  (2) The advisory committee’s responsibilities shall include the following:  (a) Identifying the needs and concerns of individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing.  (b) Making recommendations to the Department of Human Services (DHS) related to the full achievement of economic, social, legal, and political equity for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing community.  (c) Advising the Department of Human Services, Governor, Legislative Assembly, and other state agencies on how state services for individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing might be improved or better coordinated to meet the needs of these individuals.  (d) Providing information to individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing about where they may obtain assistance in rehabilitation and employment and about laws prohibiting discrimination in employment as a result of disability.  (e) Cooperating with interest groups in rehabilitation and employment for individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing, and encourage public and private employers to undertake affirmative action to ensure equitable employment of individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing.  (f) Promoting information and education to employers and the general public to increase awareness of and sensitivity to the needs of individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing and to increase opportunities for equitable education and training that shall ensure these individuals have the opportunity to reach their full vocational potential. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 410.740 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.740 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 7-2017, f. 2-21-17, cert. ef. 3-1-17 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
