



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Geologist Examiners 
 Chapter 809 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 25 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
 809-025-0015 
 Continuing Education Activities 
 
 (1) The following criteria apply to all continuing education activities regardless of type: 

 (a) Continuing education activities shall be relevant to the public practice of geology, or no credit shall be awarded. Such continuing education activities may also include technical, ethical, legal, regulatory, or managerial content that is relevant to the registrant’s public practice of geology. 

 (b) The Board encourages registrants to seek diversified types of continuing education activities over the course of their geologic careers.   

 (c) Registrants must pursue their continuing education activities with an objective to inform and improve their geologic knowledge as related to geologic practice and for the benefit of Oregon citizens in relation to the public practice of geology in Oregon.  

 (d) Registrants must complete continuing education activities that are distinct from typical, day-to-day work duties. However, activities may be completed during typical working hours, such as through trainings or other educational events provided by an employer or sponsor. 

 (2) The Board does not pre-approve continuing education activities. The Board will generally approve and credit hours for continuing education activities as follows: 

 (a) For structured activities, the Board will approve and credit continuing education activities for each hour completed and documented in accordance with the requirements of these rules. S tructured educational activities may be completed in-person, through written correspondence, via televised or video recorded format, or through the internet. 

 (b) Academic Coursework: The following conversions shall apply: 

 (A) Courses or programs awarded one or more semester credit hours by a college or university, with a passing grade received where grades are issued, shall equal fifteen (15) continuing education activity hours per semester credit hour; 

 (B) Courses or programs awarded one or more college quarter hours by a college or university, with a passing grade received where grades are issued, shall equal ten (10) continuing education activity hours per quarter credit hour 

 (c) Continuing Education Units (CEUs): Courses or programs awarded one or more CEUs by the course sponsor, with a passing grade received where grades are issued, shall equal ten (10) continuing education activity hours per CEU. 

 (d) For self-directed educational activities, the Board may credit the following types of continuing education activities where the activities meet the requirements of these rules: 

 (A) Professional Seminars, Meetings, and Panels:  One (1) hour of credit for one (1) hour of attendance at a professional seminar, meeting, or similar event or spent preparing for and as a participant in a panel at a professional seminar, meeting, or similar event. The topic(s) covered must be related to the professional practice of geology, as defined at ORS 672.505(7). 

 (B) Field Trips: One (1) hour of credit for one (1) hour completed as a participant in a field trip involving geologic content, where the trip was organized and led by a professional or technical society or in conjunction with a seminar, meeting, or similar event. The Board will not credit more than four (4) hours per field trip.  

 (C) Teaching and Professional Presentations: Two (2) hours of credit for one (1) hour preparing for and teaching a course or class or preparing for and giving a presentation to a group where the topic covered must be related to the professional practice of geology, as defined at ORS 672.505(7). A registrant shall not receive credit for teaching the same course or class or giving the same presentation two or more times. This credit is not available to a registrant that teaches as a primary duty of employment. 

 (D) Professional or Technical Societies: One (1) hour of credit for one (1) of service as an officer, or a committee, taskforce, or work group member of a professional or technical society with a focus related to the professional practice of geology, as defined at ORS 672.5050(7). However, hours shall not be earned until a year of service is completed. 

 (E) Authoring: Up to eight (8) hours of credit for authoring (publishing) an original professional paper, article, book, or geological map where hours claimed must be justified based on the type, length, and complexity of the publication. The Board may also consider whether the publication was adequately peer reviewed in determining hours credited. Credit may be available for either authorship or presentation of the publication in its initial version but not both. Credit cannot be requested until the paper, article, book, or geologic map has been published or presented.  

 (F) Professional Examination Review and Writing: Two (2) hours of credit for one (1) hour spent preparing to serve or serving as an examination reviewer or on a committee writing examination materials for an examination used for purposes of assessing minimum competency to publicly practice geology or a geologic specialty. 

 (G) Pro Bono Service: One (1) hour of credit for one (1) hour of pro bono service that meets the requirements of 809-25-0000(4) and maintains, improves, or expands the professional knowledge or skill of the registrant. 

 (H) State Registration Board Participation: Eight (8) hours of credit for one (1) year of active membership on a state geologist registration board. For a registrant not serving as a state geologist registration board member, the Board will credit participation in state geologist registration board activities as follows: 

 (i) One (1) hour of credit for one (1) hour of attendance at a state geologist registration board meeting as documented in official meeting minutes of a state geologist registration board; 

 (ii) One (1) hour of credit for one (1) hour of participation in a state geologist registration board committee, taskforce, or work group; and 

 (iii) The Board will not credit more than two (2) hours per renewal year for either (i) or (ii). 

 (I) Self-Study: One (1) hour of credit for two (2) hours of reading professional, peer-reviewed papers or similar documents on a topic related to the professional practice of geology, as defined at ORS 672.505(7). The registrant is responsible for documenting the self study, such as by preparing a written summary of key points from the papers or documents read. The Board will not credit more than two (2) hours per renewal year for self study. 

 (3) The Board has the final authority to determine in its sole discretion whether continuing education activities requested by a registrant meet the requirements of these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 670.310 & ORS 672.588 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 672.588 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BGE 3-2020, adopt filed 06/03/2020, effective 01/01/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
