



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 47 MODEL RULES PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS FOR GOODS OR SERVICES 
 137-047-0470 
 Mistakes 
 
 (1) Generally. To protect the integrity of the competitive Procurement process and to assure fair treatment of Offerors, a Contracting Agency should carefully consider whether to permit waiver, correction or withdrawal of Offers for certain mistakes.  (2) Contracting Agency Treatment of Mistakes. A Contracting Agency shall not allow an Offeror to correct or withdraw an Offer for an error in judgment. If the Contracting Agency discovers certain mistakes in an Offer after Opening, but before Award of the Contract, the Contracting Agency may take the following action:  (a) A Contracting Agency may waive, or permit an Offeror to correct, a minor informality. A minor informality is a matter of form rather than substance that is evident on the face of the Offer, or an insignificant mistake that can be waived or corrected without prejudice to other Offerors. Examples of minor informalities include an Offeror's failure to:  (A) Return the correct number of Signed Offers or the correct number of other documents required by the Solicitation Document;  (B) Sign the Offer in the designated block, provided a Signature appears elsewhere in the Offer, evidencing an intent to be bound; and  (C) Acknowledge receipt of an Addendum to the Solicitation Document, provided that it is clear on the face of the Offer that the Offeror received the Addendum and intended to be bound by its terms; or the Addendum involved did not affect price, quality or delivery.  (b) A Contracting Agency may correct a clerical error if the error is evident on the face of the Offer or other documents submitted with the Offer, and the Offeror confirms the Contracting Agency's correction in Writing. A clerical error is an Offeror's error in transcribing its Offer. Examples include typographical mistakes, errors in extending unit prices, transposition errors, arithmetical errors, instances in which the intended correct unit or amount is evident by simple arithmetic calculations (for example, a missing unit price may be established by dividing the total price for the units by the quantity of units for that item, or a missing or incorrect total price for an item may be established by multiplying the unit price by the quantity when those figures are available in the Offer). Unit prices shall prevail over extended prices in the event of a discrepancy between extended prices and unit prices.  (c) A Contracting Agency may permit an Offeror to withdraw an Offer based on one or more clerical errors in the Offer only if the Offeror shows with objective proof and by clear and convincing evidence:  (A) The nature of the error;  (B) That the error is not a minor informality under this subsection or an error in judgment;  (C) That the error cannot be corrected or waived under subsection (b) of this section;  (D) That the Offeror acted in good faith in submitting an Offer that contained the claimed error and in claiming that the alleged error in the Offer exists;  (E) That the Offeror acted without gross negligence in submitting an Offer that contained a claimed error;  (F) That the Offeror will suffer substantial detriment if the Contracting Agency does not grant the Offeror permission to withdraw the Offer;  (G) That the Contracting Agency's or the public's status has not changed so significantly that relief from the forfeiture will work a substantial hardship on the Contracting Agency or the public it represents; and  (H) That the Offeror promptly gave notice of the claimed error to the Contracting Agency.  (d) The criteria in subsection (2)(c) of this rule shall determine whether a Contracting Agency will permit an Offeror to withdraw its Offer after Closing. These criteria also shall apply to the question of whether a Contracting Agency will permit an Offeror to withdraw its Offer without forfeiture of its Bid bond (or other Bid or Proposal security), or without liability to the Contracting Agency based on the difference between the amount of the Offeror's Offer and the amount of the Contract actually awarded by the Contracting Agency, whether by Award to the next lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder or the most Advantageous Responsive and Responsible Proposer, or by resort to a new solicitation.  (3) Rejection for Mistakes. The Contracting Agency shall reject any Offer in which a mistake is evident on the face of the Offer and the intended correct Offer is not evident or cannot be substantiated from documents submitted with the Offer.  (4) Identification of Mistakes after Award. The procedures and criteria set forth above are Offeror's only opportunity to correct mistakes or withdraw Offers because of a mistake. Following Award, an Offeror is bound by its Offer, and may withdraw its Offer or rescind a Contract entered into pursuant to this division 47 only to the extent permitted by applicable law. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 & 279B.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279B.055 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 15-2009, f. 12-1-09, cert. ef. 1-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
