



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Chapter 731 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 COORDINATION RULES 
 731-015-0085 
 Coordination Procedures for Adopting Plans for Class 2 Projects Determined to Significantly Affect Land Use 
 
 The procedures in this section shall be followed when the Department determines that a Class 2 project would significantly affect land use in accordance with OAR 731-015-0035.  (1) Planning officials of affected cities and counties shall be contacted at the start of project planning to identify any possible compliance or compatibility conflicts and ways to avoiding conflicts.  (2) The Department shall attempt to avoid any identified compliance or compatibility conflicts as it develops its plans.  (3) Planning officials of affected cities and counties shall be requested to review preliminary final plans to identify whether any local land use approvals are needed and whether any of the acknowledged comprehensive plan’s general provisions would be substantially affected. If no local planning approvals are required and if the plan’s general provisions would not be substantially affected the Department shall conclude that the project is compatible. If no comments are received from an affected local jurisdiction within 15 days of the Department’s request for a compatibility determination, the Department shall deem that the preliminary project plans are compatible with the acknowledged comprehensive plan for that jurisdiction. The Department may extend the reply time if requested to do so by an affected city or county.  (4) If any local planning approvals are required the Department shall either modify its project plans so as to not require approvals, or shall apply for the necessary approvals.  (5) If the affected city or county does not grant approval, the Department may:  (a) Modify the project plans so as to not require approval;  (b) Discontinue further work on the project; or  (c) Appeal the city or county decision.  (6) The Department shall obtain local planning approvals prior to construction of the project. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOT 5-1990, f. & cert. ef. 9-26-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
