



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-2000 
 Powered Saws 
 
 (1) Scope — This applies to nonportable powered saws.  (2) General.  (a) Machines must not vibrate when the tool is run at full speed.  (b) Arbors and mandrels must have firm and secure bearing and be free from play.  (c) Do not use any automatic cutoff saw that strokes continuously without operator control of each stroke.  (d) Saw frames and tables must have lugs cast on the frame or an equivalent way to limit the size of the saw blade to avoid overspeed.  (e) Circular saw fences must attach to the table or table assembly without changing their alignment with the saw. The fences for tilting tables or tilting arbors must remain parallel with the saw regardless of the angle of the saw with the table.  (f) Circular saw gages must slide in accurately machined grooves or tracks to insure exact alignment with the saw for all positions of the guide.  (g) Hinged saw tables must be lockable in any position and in alignment with the saw.  (h) Guard all belts, pulleys, gears, shafts, and moving parts to comply with OAR 437-004-1970, division 4/O.  (i) Electrically ground all equipment to comply with OAR 437-004-2810, division 4/S.  (j) A guard must cover the rear portion of the saw beneath or behind the table when exposed to contact. An exhaust hood may serve this purpose if appropriate.  (k) Do not mount any saw, cutter head or tool collar on a machine not made to work with them.  (l) There must be combs (featherboards) or suitable jigs to use when a standard guard cannot be used, like for dadoing, grooving, jointing, moulding, and rabbeting.  (3) Machine controls and equipment.  (a) There must be a mechanical or electrical power control switch so the operator does not have to leave the point of operation to shut off the machine.  (b) Use a locking-type belt shifter or other positive device on machines driven by belts and shafting.  (c) Provide a positive method to prevent a machine from automatically restarting after a power failure.  (d) Locate power and operating controls within reach of the operator. Do not allow the operator to reach over the cutter head to make adjustments. This does not apply to constant pressure controls used only for setup.  (e) Provide a positive means to make electric motor driven machine controls and devices inoperable during repairs or adjustments.  (f) Protect foot-operated controls from unexpected or accidental activation.  (g) Cover feed rolls, of feeder attachments, to protect the operator from contacting hazardous parts.  (4) Band saws.  (a) Completely enclose band wheels. Construct guards of at least No. 14 U.S. gauge metal, nominal 2-inch wood material, or mesh or perforated metal of not less than U.S. gauge No. 20 with 3/8-inch or smaller openings.  (b) Enclose all portions of the band saw blade except the working side of the blade between the guide and the table.  (5) Radial arm saws.  (a) Radial arm saws must have a hood that completely encloses the upper portion of the blade down to a point that includes the end of the saw arbor.  (b) The saw blade must not extend beyond the front edge of the table or roll case.  (c) A lower blade guard must guard the lower part of the blade and stay in contact with the material during the entire cut.  (d) When ripping, radial arm saws must have anti-kickback fingers on each side of the saw.  (e) Mark the direction of saw rotation on the hood.  (f) Attach a permanent warning sign prohibiting rip or plough cuts from the rear of the guard. Rip and plough only against the direction of blade rotation.  (g) Blades or cutting heads on radial arm saws must automatically return gently and stay at the back of the table.  NOTE: Use a counterweight or other effective means, a retractor device, or tilt the arm sufficiently to keep the saw at the back when released by the operator.  (6) Table saws.  (a) Circular crosscut table saws must have a hood that covers the saw at least to the depth of the teeth.  (b) The hood must automatically adjust itself to the thickness of and remain in contact with, the material being cut. When the guard may mar the surfaces of material, it may be raised slightly to avoid contact.  (c) The hood must protect the operator from flying splinters and broken saw teeth.  (d) Fully guard rip table saws, and combination rip and crosscut table saws as required in OAR 437-004-2000(4)(a) and (b). They must have a spreader and anti-kickback fingers. The spreader is not necessary when rabbeting, ploughing, grooving or for cutting dados.  (e) Fully guard the part of the table saw beneath the table.  (f) Use push sticks to guide short stock and ends through table saws without self-feeding devices.  (7) Wobble saws. Do not insert wedges between a saw disk and its collar to form a “wobble saw” for rabbeting.  NOTE: This rule does not apply to properly designed and adjustable rabbeting blades.  (8) Cracks in blades. Do not use a circular saw blade with a crack greater in length than those in the following table: [Table not included. See ED. NOTE.]  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 9-2006, f. & cert. ef. 9-22-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
