



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Education Coordinating Commission 
 Office of Community Colleges and Workforce Development - Chapter 589 
 
 
 
 
 Division 7 PROGRAMS 
 589-007-0110 
 Apprenticeship Related Training Courses, Work-Based Learning and Academic Credit 
 
 (1) Community colleges will cooperate with the State Apprenticeship and Training Council, the Office, and the local joint committees in providing the necessary related training courses to meet the objectives of courses of study as identified in ORS 660.157(1) for registered apprentices and trainees. The coordination of related training offered in these courses with job instruction, and the carrying out of the other details will be the responsibility of the community college. (ORS 660.160)  (2) For each occupation and industry, the State Apprenticeship and Training Council shall review and approve courses of study for apprentices, based on current occupational analyses, that meet the training needs of each local joint committee and that shall be available to all registered apprentices.  (3) Local joint committees, in cooperation with the community college, shall have the responsibility for determining the training needs of the apprentices indentured by the committees subject to the training objectives adopted for the particular occupation or industry.  (4) Community college apprenticeship related training will be based on the course of study for apprentices and trainees approved by the State Apprenticeship and Training Council.  (5) Community colleges will collaborate with the local joint committee to develop and implement apprenticeship related training courses to satisfy the related training requirements of apprentices within the limits of the available resources and facilities of the community college.  (6) Community colleges will collaborate with local joint committees to identify the apprentice training requirements that can be met by existing community college courses.  (7) Community colleges identified on the Annual List of Community College Related Training Providers will provide apprenticeship related training courses to registered apprentices when regional accreditation and Commission standards and requirements have been met. These standards and requirements include direct control by the community college relating to the approval of the curriculum and instruction, evaluation of the curricula, hiring or direct approval of instructors, evaluation of instructors and approval of the instructional setting.  (8) Community colleges will have sole responsibility for determining and providing academic credit for apprenticeship related training offered by the community college.  (9) The local joint committees will have responsibility for granting apprenticeship credit for training and education received in community college apprenticeship related training and other course work.  (10) Apprenticeship related training courses offered by community colleges will meet the same instructional standards and procedures as for other occupational supplementary and/or occupational preparatory courses offered by the community college.  (11) Apprenticeship related training courses offered by community colleges will follow the same contact hour to academic credit ratio as other academic credit courses offered by the community college. The ratio will include a consistent differentiation for instructional delivery provided through lecture, laboratory and lecture/laboratory as defined by state and local community college guidelines.  (12) Contact hours of apprenticeship related training offered by community colleges will be consistent with the hours of related training as approved by the State Apprenticeship and Training Council for the specific apprenticeship.  (13) Apprenticeship related training offered by the community colleges for apprentices may be offered as credit or non-credit courses at the discretion of the community college.  (14) Community colleges will transcript the credit for all apprenticeship related training courses completed by apprentices for academic credit. Non-credit apprenticeship related training course transcription is at the discretion of the college.  (15) Effective July 1, 2003, and thereafter, apprenticeship on-the-job (OJT) training paid in whole or in part by any person or entity employing the services of a registered apprentice shall not be considered by the community college or the Office as cooperative work experience or related training for the registered apprentice.  (16) Effective July 1, 2003, and thereafter, state FTE reimbursement will not be provided for on-the-job training for registered apprentices that are paid in whole or in part by any person or entity employing the services of a registered apprentice.  (17) Skill and knowledge gained by registered apprentices and journey persons through on-the-job training may be considered as nonreimbursable credit for prior learning and/or credit for prior certification, according to the policies and procedures of a community college.  (18) Effective July 1, 2003, and thereafter, cooperative work experience (CWE) and similar work-based learning courses may continue to be included in certificate of completion and/or associate degree programs for registered apprentices and journey persons, however credits transcripted by the college shall be only for credit for prior learning or credit for prior certification. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 351.735 & 341.290 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS, 341.665, 660.157, 660.160, 660.167 & 660.190 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 5-2015, f. & cert. ef. 10-30-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 5-2003, f. & cert. ef. 10-20-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DCCWD 2-2003, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
