



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Addiction Services - Chapter 415 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 STANDARDS FOR OUTPATIENT OPIOID TREATMENT PROGRAMS 
 415-020-0075 
 Specific Staff Qualifications and Competencies 
 
 (1) Medical Director Qualifications: The Medical Director must be a physician licensed by the Oregon Board of Medical Examiners and whose license enables him or her to order, dispense, and administer opioid agonist medications. In addition, the Opioid Treatment Program (OTP) shall document that the Medical Director has completed a minimum of 12 hours per year of continuing education specific to the treatment of addiction disorder. 

 (2) Administrator — Qualifications: Each OTP shall be directed by a person with the following qualifications at the time of hire and continuously throughout employment as the program administrator: 

 (a) Five years of paid full-time experience in the field of substance use treatment, including experience in an OTP with at least one year in a paid administrative capacity; or 

 (b) A Bachelor's degree in a relevant field and four years of paid full-time experience in the field of alcohol and drug treatment, including experience in an OTP with at least one year in a paid administrative capacity; or 

 (c) A Master's degree in a relevant field and three years of paid full-time experience in the field of alcohol and drug treatment, including experience in an OTP with at least one year in a paid administrative capacity. 

 (3) Management Staff — Competency: The management staff shall: 

 (a) Have knowledge and experience demonstrating competence in the performance of the following essential job functions: program planning and budgeting, fiscal management, supervision of staff, personnel management, employee performance assessment, data collection, reporting, program evaluation, quality assurance, and developing and maintaining community resources; 

 (b) Demonstrate by their conduct the competencies required by this rule and compliance with the program policies and procedures implementing these rules. 

 (4) Clinical Supervisor — Qualifications: Each OTP shall have an identified clinical supervisor who has one of the following qualifications at the time of hire: 

 (a) Five years of paid full-time experience in the field of alcohol and other drug treatment, including experience in an OTP, with a minimum of two years of direct alcohol and other drug treatment experience; or 

 (b) A Bachelor's degree in a relevant field and four years of paid full-time experience, with a minimum of two years of direct alcohol and other drug treatment experience including experience in an OTP; or 

 (c) A Master's degree in a relevant field and three years of paid full-time experience, with a minimum of two years of direct alcohol and other drug treatment experience including experience in an OTP. 

 (5) Clinical Supervisor — Competency: All supervisors shall: 

 (a) Have knowledge and experience demonstrating competence in the performance of the following essential job functions: supervision of treatment staff including staff development, use of The ASAM Criteria , treatment planning, case management, and utilization of community resources including self-help groups; preparation and supervision of patient assessment procedures; preparation and supervision of case management procedures for client treatment; conducting of individual, group, family, and other counseling; and assurance of the clinical integrity of all patient records for cases under their supervision, including timely entry or correctness of records and requiring adequate clinical rationale for decisions in admission and assessment records, treatment plans and progress notes, and discharge records; 

 (b) Demonstrate by their conduct the competencies required by this rule and compliance with the program policies and procedures implementing these rules; and 

 (c) Except as provided in this rule, hold a current certification or license in addiction counseling or hold a current license as a health or allied provider issued by a state licensing body. 

 (6) Clinical Supervisors — Certification: For supervisors holding a certification or license in addiction counseling, qualifications for the certificate or license must have included at least: 

 (a) 4,000 hours of supervised experience in substance use counseling; 

 (b) 300 contact hours of education and training in substance use related subjects; and 

 (c) Successful completion of a written objective examination or portfolio review by the certifying or licensing body. 

 (7) Clinical Supervisor — Licensure: For supervisors holding a health or allied provider license, such license shall have been issued by one of the following state bodies and the supervisor must possess documentation of at least 120 contact hours of academic or continuing professional education in the treatment of substance use disorders: 

 (a) Board of Medical Examiners; 

 (b) Board of Psychologist Examiners; 

 (c) Board of Clinical Social Workers; 

 (d) Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists; or 

 (e) Board of Nursing. 

 (8) Clinical Supervisors — Existing Staff: Supervisors not having a credential or license that meets the standards identified in this rule must apply to a qualified credentialing organization or state licensing board within 90 days of the effective date of this rule and achieve certification or licensure meeting the standards of this rule, within 24 months of the application date. 

 (9) Administrator as Clinical Supervisor: If the program's administrator meets the qualifications of the clinical supervisor, the administrator may be the clinical supervisor. 

 (10) Treatment Staff — Competency: All treatment staff shall: 

 (a) Have knowledge, skills, and abilities demonstrating competence in the following essential job functions: The ASAM Criteria , treatment of substance use disorders including patient assessment and individual, group, family, and other counseling techniques; program policies and procedures for client case management and record keeping; and accountability for recording information in the patient files assigned to them consistent with those policies and procedures and these rules; 

 (b) Demonstrate by conduct the competencies required by this rule and compliance with the program policies and procedures implementing these rules; 

 (c) Except as provided in this rule, hold a current certification or license in addiction counseling or hold a current license as a health or allied provider issued by a state licensing body. 

 (11) Treatment Staff — Certification: For treatment staff holding a certification or license in addiction counseling, qualifications for the certificate or license must have included at least: 

 (a) 1,000 hours of supervised experience in substance use counseling; 

 (b) 150 contact hours of education and training in substance use related subjects; and 

 (c) Successful completion of a written objective examination or portfolio review by the certifying body. 

 (12) Treatment Staff — Licensure: For treatment staff holding a health or allied provider license, such license shall have been issued by one of the following state bodies and the staff person must possess documentation of at least 60 contact hours of academic or continuing professional education in the treatment of substance use disorders: 

 (a) Board of Medical Examiners; 

 (b) Board of Psychologist Examiners; 

 (c) Board of Clinical Social Workers; 

 (d) Board of Licensed Professional Counselors and Therapists; or 

 (e) Board of Nursing. 

 (13) Treatment Staff — Existing Staff: Existing staff who do not hold a certificate or license that meets the standards identified in section of this rule must apply to a qualified credentialing organization or state licensing board within 90 days of the effective date of this rule and achieve certification or licensure meeting the standards of section of this rule within 36 months of the application date. 

 (14) Treatment Staff — New Hires: New hires need not hold a qualified certificate or license, but those who do not must make application within six months of employment and receive the credential or license within 36 months of the application. 

 (15) The OTP shall provide a minimum of two hours per month of clinical supervisor consultation for each staff person or volunteer who is responsible for the delivery of treatment services. One hour of the supervision must be individual, face-to-face, and address clinical skill development. The supervision or consultation is to assist staff and volunteers to increase their treatment skills, improve quality of services to patient, and ensure compliance with program policies and procedures implementing these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 430.256 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 430.010(4)(b) & 430.560 - 430.590 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 2-2023, amend filed 04/07/2023, effective 04/07/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 1-2022, amend filed 03/25/2022, effective 03/28/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 3-2021, temporary amend filed 09/29/2021, effective 10/01/2021 through 03/29/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 2-2021, temporary amend filed 09/21/2021, effective 10/01/2021 through 03/29/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 5-2013, f. & cert. ef. 6-7-13 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 2-2008, f. & cert. ef. 11-13-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 1-2003, f. 6-13-03, cert. ef. 7-1-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADAP 3-1995, f. 12-1-95, cert. ef. 3-1-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 17-1993, f. & cert. ef. 7-23-93, Renumbered from 410-006-0075 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 4-1988, f. & cert. ef. 5-10-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
