



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 DAM SAFETY 
 690-020-0065 
 Plan Requirements for New Dams or to Increase Dam Height: Construction Administration
 
 
 The Engineer of Record shall submit plans for administering the construction of the Dam to the State Engineer for approval. Construction plans must include the following: 

 (1) A provision stating that the Engineer of Record or an employee working for the Engineer of Record shall be on-site as needed for instructions to the contractor, approval of initial excavation, acceptance of materials, and general project administration; 

 (2) A provision stating that the Dam owner shall cease construction activity if the Engineer of Record is no longer retained or for any reason cannot complete necessary construction administration activities. Construction may resume when a new Engineer of Record is employed, the State Engineer has been notified of the new Engineer of Record, and both Engineers have discussed the project; 

 (3) A provision stating that the Engineer of Record will observe the Dam during construction as needed to determine if construction is consistent with approved design and construction documents. This provision shall also include a description of how the Engineer of Record will determine if construction work in progress fails to conform to the approved plans and specifications, and that such nonconforming work will be corrected; 

 (4) A provision stating that the Engineer of Record shall confirm Foundation design assumptions once surface materials have been stripped and the Cutoff Trench excavated. Changes in actual Foundation conditions from assumptions made in the initial site evaluation shall be communicated to the State Engineer; 

 (5) A provision in which the Engineer of Record shall maintain a record of construction that shall include: 

 (a) Logs of construction inspections whenever such inspections are made by the Engineer of Record or the Engineer of Record’s employee; 

 (b) All test results pertaining to construction; 

 (c) Photographs; and 

 (d) Construction problems and remedies. 

 (6) A provision stating that the Engineer of Record shall complete and stamp As-built Drawings and a final construction report, including statements that the observations are either consistent or inconsistent with the design drawings and specifications. If key elements of construction were not observed, the construction report shall detail those specific elements that were not observed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.027, 540.488 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540.449, 540.488 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 3-2020, amend filed 06/29/2020, effective 07/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 2-2015, f. & cert. ef. 3-17-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
