



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Optometry 
 Chapter 852 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 STANDARDS OF OPTOMETRIC PRACTICE 
 852-020-0029 
 Prescription Content 
 
 (1) Prescription specifications must be reasonably based on the patient’s vision and eye health concerns and must include all information required to ensure the patient receives the designated ophthalmic products.  (2) Spectacle prescriptions must include the following information:  (a) Patient’s name;  (b) Examination date;  (c) Prescription issuance date (the date on which the patient receives a copy of the prescription);  (d) Optometric physician’s name, license number, practice location address, telephone number and facsimile (fax) number and handwritten, stamped or electronic signature. If using another doctor’s printed or electronic prescription form, the prescribing doctor must legibly print his or her own name and license number on prescription form before signing;  (e) Sphere, Cylinder, Axis and/or ADD;  (f) Any special features, which may include but are not limited to: type of bifocal, trifocal or progressive lens style, prism, material, tints, coatings or edge polish; and  (g) A reasonable and clinically-prudent expiration date.  (3) Contact lens prescriptions must include the following information:  (a) Patient’s name;  (b) Examination date;  (c) Prescription issuance date (the date on which the patient receives a copy of the prescription);  (d) A reasonable and clinically-prudent expiration date;  (e) Optometric physician’s s name, license number, practice location address, telephone number and facsimile (fax) number, and handwritten, stamped or electronic signature. If using another doctor’s printed or electronic prescription form, the prescribing doctor must legibly print his or her own name and license number on prescription form before signing;  (f) Sphere, Cylinder, Axis and/or ADD;  (g) Lens base curve or series;  (h) Lens diameter, if applicable;  (i) Lens material and/or brand name;  (j) Any special features that may include but are not limited to: type of bifocal, trifocal or progressive lens style, prism, material, tints, coatings or edge polish;  (k) The maximum number of refills, if specified by the optometric physician. If specified, the contact lens prescription becomes invalid upon the patient’s ordering of the maximum number of refills, unless extended by the optometrist. The quantity of lenses or refills specified in the prescription must be sufficient to last through the prescription’s expiration date. If a lesser quantity of lenses or refills is specified in the prescription, the prescriber must have a legitimate medical reason for doing so, and the Federal Trade Commission requirements on writing a prescription for less than one year must be met; and  (l) Any limitations, including wearing schedule and follow-up care.  (4) Contact lens prescriptions must be written in a manner that allows the patient to have the prescription filled by an office or outlet of their choice.  (5) A seller may not alter a contact lens prescription. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the same contact lens is manufactured by the same company and sold under multiple labels to individual providers, the seller may fill the prescription with an equivalent contact lens manufactured by that company under another label.  (6) Therapeutic pharmaceutical prescriptions must conform to the administrative rules of the Oregon Board of Pharmacy regarding prescription format. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 182 & 683 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 182.466, 683.010(2), 683.030(3) & 683.335 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OPT 3-2014, f. 12-29-14, cert. ef. 1-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OPT 2-2014, f. 11-28-14, cert. ef. 1-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OPT 1-2013, f. & cert. ef. 1-3-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OPT 1-2004, f. & cert. ef. 3-8-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
