



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teacher Standards and Practices Commission 
 Chapter 584 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 420 STATE STANDARDS FOR TEACHER PREPARATION PROGRAMS 
 584-420-0660 
 Talented and Gifted Specialization: Program Standards 
 
 (1) Candidates who are prepared for the Talented and Gifted Specialization will demonstrate the knowledge, skills, professional dispositions and cultural competencies necessary to promote the academic, career, personal and social development of talented and gifted students.  (2) The Commission may provide approval to a Talented and Gifted Specialization program only if it includes:  (a) Content that will enable candidates to meet the competency standards set forth in this rule and the TSPC Program Review and Standards Handbook;  (b) Field experiences that include supervised teaching or internships in classrooms with talented and gifted learners; and  (c) Integration of principles of cultural competency and equitable practice in each competency standard through the entire Talented and Gifted Specialization program.  (3) Standard 1: Learner Development and Individual Learning Differences: Talented and Gifted Specialists understand the variations in learning and development in cognitive and affective areas between and among Talented and Gifted Learners and apply this understanding to provide meaningful and challenging learning experiences for children identified as Talented and Gifted.  (4) Standard 2: Learning Environments: Talented and Gifted Specialists create safe, inclusive, and culturally responsive learning environments so that talented and gifted learners become effective learners and develop social and emotional well-being.  (5) Standard 3: Curricular Content Knowledge: Talented and Gifted Specialists use knowledge of general and specialized curricula to advance learning for talented and gifted learners.  (6) Standard 4: Cultural Competency and Equity in the Classroom: Talented and Gifted Specialists demonstrate the cultural competency and proficiencies necessary to provide equitable outcomes for all students.  (7) Standard 5: Assessment: Talented and Gifted Specialists use multiple methods of assessment and data sources in making educational decisions about identification of talented and gifted Learners and student learning.  (8) Standard 6: Instructional Planning and Strategies: Talented and Gifted Specialists select, adapt, and use a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of talented and gifted learners.  (9) Standard 7: Professional Learning and Ethical Practices: Talented and Gifted Specialists use foundational knowledge of the field and professional ethical principles and programming standards to inform gifted education practice, to engage in lifelong learning, and to advance the profession.  (10) Standard 8: Collaboration: Talented and Gifted Specialists collaborate with families, other educators, related service providers, talented and gifted learners, and personnel from community agencies in culturally responsive ways to address the needs of talented and gifted Learners across a range of learning experiences. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.120 – 342.430; 342.455-342.495 & 342.553 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 2-10-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSPC 13-2015(Temp), f. 11-13-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
