



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Geology and Mineral Industries 
 Chapter 632 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 CONSOLIDATED PERMITTING OF MINING OPERATIONS 
 632-037-0060 
 Operating Plan 
 
 The Operating Plan section of a consolidated application shall include but not be limited to the following:  (1) A detailed description of the proposed mining and ore processing methods.  (2) A general list of equipment required for the proposed operation.  (3) A general schedule of construction and operation starting with the beginning of construction and ending with the completion of mining.  (4) General design assumptions and plan profile, cross sections and capacities for mine facilities including but not limited to:  (a) Leach pads;  (b) Impoundments;  (c) Ponds;  (d) Stormwater and surface water diversion systems;  (e) Waste disposal systems;  (f) Stockpiles and dumps;  (g) Pits;  (h) Tailing disposal facilities; and  (i) Transportation and storage systems for hazardous chemicals.  (5) A process water budget analysis including but not limited to:  (a) Precipitation and evaporation data;  (b) Make-up water needs;  (c) Make-up water source;  (d) Procedures to dispose of precipitation and ground water in excess of designed capacities to include but not be limited to solution treatment facilities or proposed treatment, disposal or discharge strategies. This section should be coordinated with procedures for seasonal or temporary closure and decommissioning of the operation;  (e) Surface water runoff determination for the watershed containing the mining operation.  (6) Seasonal or temporary closure procedures if applicable including but not limited to:  (a) Target seasonal or temporary storage volumes;  (b) Total system storage capacity;  (c) Procedures to handle volumes of water in excess of seasonal or temporary storage capacities;  (d) Estimated schedule for closure; and  (e) Monitoring and reporting programs, including but not limited to:  (A) Surface and ground water monitoring systems within and outside of the permit area and reporting frequency;  (B) Water balance of the process system and leak detection systems and reporting frequency;  (C) Biological monitoring and reporting procedures and frequency; and  (D) Fish and wildlife injury and mortality monitoring and reporting frequency developed according to standards adopted by the Department of Fish and Wildlife.  (7) Operational monitoring and reporting programs, including but not limited to:  (a) Surface and ground water monitoring systems within and outside of the permit area and reporting frequency;  (b) Water balance of the process system and leak detection systems and reporting frequency;  (c) Biological monitoring and reporting procedures and frequency; and  (d) Fish and wildlife injury and mortality monitoring and reporting frequency developed according to standards adopted by the Department of Fish and Wildlife.  (8) Surface water management procedures to provide for protection against contamination of ground water and the off-site discharge of sediments into adjacent waterways.  (9) Plans for stable storage of the following:  (a) Overburden;  (b) Waste rock and low grade ore: The pre-dump topography, ground preparation, method of emplacement of dump material, height of lifts, total height and final slopes shall be described. The Department shall require design and review by a registered professional engineer or certified engineering geologist;  (c) Topsoil or suitable growth media maintained for use in revegetation;  (d) Mill tailings: Plans and specifications of all dams, impoundments or landfills proposed to be constructed for the purpose of storing or disposing of mill tailings, processing solutions or other materials consequent to the mining and milling operation may be required by the Department to be prepared by a registered professional engineer or certified engineering geologist. Procedures to prevent pollution of air, water and land shall be described. Details on how each tailings disposal facility will be reclaimed shall be submitted; and  (e) Mined ore: Plans and specifications prepared by a registered professional engineer or certified engineering geologist of all ore storage facilities may be required by the Department. Ore storage facilities may include but not be limited to reusable or permanent leach pads, stockpiles, storage bins and silos.  (10) A subsidence control plan for underground mines:  (a) An application for an underground mine operation must include an inventory that shows whether structures, renewable or nonrenewable resources, or water resources exist within the proposed permit area and adjacent area, and whether subsidence may in the professional judgment of the Department cause damage to, or diminution of reasonable foreseeable uses of the structures, renewable or nonrenewable resources, or water resources;  (b) If the Department finds, after reviewing the inventory, that no structure or renewable or nonrenewable resource exists and in the professional judgment of the Department no damage or diminution could be caused in the event of mine subsidence, the Department will not require further information under this subsection;  (c) If the Department finds, after reviewing the inventory, that any structure, renewable or nonrenewable resource, or water resources exists and that subsidence could in the professional judgment of the Department cause damage or diminution of value of subsequent land use, then the applicant shall submit a subsidence control plan that contains:  (A) A detailed description of all proposed methods of operation that may cause subsidence including the technique of ore removal and the extent, if any, to which planned and controlled subsidence is intended;  (B) A detailed description of the measures to be taken to mitigate or prevent damage caused by subsidence, or diminution of value of subsequent land use, including the anticipated effects of planned subsidence, if any, and measures to be taken to reduce the likelihood of subsidence;  (C) Measures to be taken on the surface to prevent damage or lessening of the value of subsequent land use;  (D) A detailed description of measures to be taken to determine the degree of damage or diminution of value of subsequent land use including measures such as the results of pre-subsidence surveys of all structures and surface features that might be damaged by subsidence and monitoring, if any, proposed to measure deformation near specified structures or features or otherwise as appropriate for the operations.  (11) A list of chemicals and the quantity of such chemicals to be used and procedures for the handling, storage and disposal of any chemicals, acid-forming materials or radioactive or hazardous material or wastes generated from or required for mining or processing at the proposed operation.  (12) A fish and wildlife protection and mitigation plan developed according to standards adopted by the Department of Fish and Wildlife.  (13) A plan for the transportation of toxic chemicals developed according to standards adopted by the State Fire Marshal.  (14) An employee safety training plan developed according to state and federal law.  (15) A spill prevention plan that includes but is not limited to initial response, safety, reporting procedures, notification to appropriate state and local agencies and a corrective action plan.  (16) Characterization and management plan for all wastes, including quantity and quality.  (17) Within 30 days after completion of construction, but before mine operation, a signed registered engineers' or certified engineering geologists' report, complete with accurate drawings and specifications depicting the actual construction shall be submitted to the Department. Specific provisions shall be made for inspections by the Department, other permitting agencies and cooperating agencies during construction and installation of any mine facilities. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 517.750 - 517.995 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 517.971 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DGMI 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 4-2-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 GMI 2-1991, f. & cert. ef. 10-11-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
