



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 39 AFFORDABLE HOUSING PILOT PROJECT 
 660-039-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 The definitions in ORS 197.015, the statewide planning goals, and the following definitions apply to this division:  (1) “Affordable housing” means:  (a) Housing units available for rent, with or without government assistance, by households who meet applicable maximum income limits, not to exceed 80 percent of the area median income, adjusted for family size, as determined based on data from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or its successor agency, and in a manner so that no more than 30 percent of the household’s gross income will be spent on rent and utilities;  (b) Housing units available for purchase, with or without government assistance, by households who meet applicable maximum income limits, not to exceed 80 percent of the area median income, adjusted for family size, as determined based on data from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or its successor agency, and in a manner so that no more than 30 percent of the household’s gross income will be spent on home loan or mortgage payments, amortized interest, property taxes, insurance, and condominium or association fees, if any; or  (c) Spaces in manufactured dwelling parks available for rent, with or without government assistance, by households who meet applicable maximum income limits, not to exceed 100 percent of the area median income, adjusted for family size, as determined based on data from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or its successor agency.  (2) “Affordable housing unit” means a single housing unit, or a single space in a manufactured dwelling park, that meets the definition of affordable housing.  (3) “High-value farmland” has the meaning provided in ORS 195.300.  (4) “Housing unit” means a single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.  (5) “Market rate housing unit” means a single housing unit, or a single space in a manufactured dwelling park, that does not qualify as affordable housing.  (6) “Public facilities and services” means sanitary sewers, domestic water, fire protection, parks, recreation, streets and roads, and mass transit.  (7) “Qualifying city” means any incorporated city except for:  (a) Any incorporated city within Clackamas, Marion, Multnomah, Polk and Washington Counties; and  (b) Culver, Madras, Metolius, or any other incorporated city within the portion of Jefferson County that is also within the boundary of the North Unit Irrigation District.  (8) “Site” means one or more contiguous lots or parcels. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040, OL 2016 & Ch. 52 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016 & Ch. 52 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 2-2017, f. 2-24-17, cert. ef. 2-27-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
