



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING —  PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
 411-087-0420 
 Electrical Systems: General 
 
 (1) Panelboards. Panelboards serving lighting and appliance circuits shall be located on the same floor as the circuits they serve. This requirement does not apply to emergency system circuits.  (2) Receptacles (Convenience Outlets):  (a) Resident Room. Each resident room shall have duplex grounding type receptacles as follows: Two located near the head of each bed, and one for television if used, and one on another wall;  (b) Corridors. Duplex grounding receptacles for general use shall be installed approximately 50 feet (15.24 m) apart in all corridors and within 25 feet (7.62 m) of ends of corridors;  (c) GFI Outlets. All outlets within five feet of a sink shall be a GFI type outlet. The resident sink located either in the resident room or the adjacent resident toilet room shall have a GFI type outlet located within five feet of the sink.  (3) Emergency Electrical Service:  (a) General. To provide electricity during an interruption of the normal electric supply, an emergency source of electricity shall be provided and connected to certain circuits for lighting and power as follows:  (A) Illumination for means of egress as required in NFPA Life Safety Code 101;  (B) Illumination for exit signs and exit directional signs as required in NFPA Life Safety Code 101;  (C) At least one clearly marked emergency power duplex receptacle in each dining area, food preparation area, and restorative care room;  (D) At least one clearly marked emergency power duplex receptacle in each resident room and at each nursing station;  (E) Nurses’ calling systems;  (F) Equipment necessary for maintaining telephone service;  (G) Elevator service that will reach every resident floor when resident rooms are located on other than ground floor;  (H) Equipment for heating resident rooms to maintain a minimum temperature of 65 degrees in each resident room;  (I) General illumination at the nurses’ stations, in the kitchen, and at selected receptacles in the vicinity of the generator set;  (J) Paging or speaker systems if intended for communication during emergency;  (K) Alarm systems including fire alarms activated at manual stations, water flow alarm devices of sprinkler system if electrically operated, fire and smoke detecting systems, and alarms required for nonflammable medical gas systems if installed; and  (L) Coolers for storage of food.  (b) Details. Emergency lighting and emergency outlets in resident rooms shall be in operation within ten seconds after the interruption of normal electric power supply. Emergency service to other receptacles and equipment may be delayed automatic or manually connected. Receptacles connected to emergency power shall be distinctively marked. Stored fuel capacity shall be sufficient for not less than 24-hour operation of the generator;  (c) Referenced Regulations. Note: OAR 411-087-0020;  (d) Flashlights. Functioning flashlights shall be readily available in the kitchen, administrator’s office, and at each nursing station.  (4) Exceptions. Resident rooms in facilities which have been continuously licensed since January 1, 1992 and which are not used for residents using life-support equipment (e.g., ventilators, continuous suction devices) shall not be required to meet paragraphs (3)(a)(C)–(L) of this rule unless otherwise provided by OAR 411-087-0010.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 & 441.055 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.055 & 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SSD 22-1991, f. 12-31-91, cert. ef. 1-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
