



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Youth Authority 
 Chapter 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 Youth in Custody Grievance Process 
 416-020-0040 
 Grievance Review Process
 
 
 (1) If a youth in custody is unable to resolve an issue through informal communication, the youth in custody may seek to resolve the issue by submitting a written grievance using OYA’s approved youth in custody grievance form, in accordance with these rules. 
(a) OYA must ensure that approved grievance forms are available to youth in custody. The youth in custody, or representative, may also initiate the request in letter form, if grievance forms are not immediately available to the youth in custody or representative. 
(b) If a youth in custody cannot complete the grievance form or a letter due to physical or mental impairments or language barriers, the youth in custody may contact the local grievance coordinator to request accommodation. 
(c) The youth in custody, or representative, must include a complete description of the incident, action, or application of the rule being grieved, including date and approximate time. 
(d) A youth in custody grievance may request review of only one matter, action, or incident per grievance form or letter. 
(e) A youth in custody, or representative, may file a grievance regarding the same issue as a previously filed grievance only if there is another incident and new information is available about the issue. 
(2) The youth in custody, or representative, must submit the written grievance to the local grievance coordinator. If the grievance qualifies as an emergency grievance, the youth in custody or representative must submit the grievance to any OYA staff member to initiate an expedited response. 
(3) A youth in custody may not write a grievance for another youth in custody unless authorized by the local grievance coordinator. The youth in custody writing the grievance is not the other youth in custody’s representative and may only assist in writing the grievance, if authorized. The youth in custody submitting the grievance must sign the grievance form or letter. 
(4) A youth in custody may submit only their own signature on grievance forms or grievance appeals. 
(5) Within seven days of receiving the request, excluding weekends and public holidays, OYA must contact the youth in custody, or representative, to review the matter. 
(6) The results of the review must be provided in writing to the youth in custody, or representative, as soon as practicable after the review and include the steps necessary to initiate a subsequent grievance review if the youth in custody remains dissatisfied. 
(7) The youth in custody, or representative, may submit a subsequent written grievance review request to the appropriate facility superintendent, camp director, or field supervisor within 10 calendar days of receiving the initial written grievance response if the youth in custody is not satisfied with the resolution. The topic of the subsequent grievance review request must be the same as the initial grievance. 
(8) OYA must review and respond to the subsequent grievance request within 30 calendar days of receiving the request. If additional time is needed to process the subsequent grievance request, OYA will notify the youth in custody or representative and specify the number of additional days within which OYA will respond to the request. 
(a) Only information directly related to issue(s) of the initial grievance will be considered. 
(b) OYA must prepare a written decision to resolve the subsequent grievance. The decision will include instructions to the youth in custody, or representative, for filing an appeal to the OYA director if the youth in custody is dissatisfied with the resolution. 
(c) A copy of the decision must be sent to the youth in custody, or representative, as soon as practicable following its completion. 
(9) After a youth in custody has been terminated from OYA’s legal or physical custody, the youth in custody’s pending grievances or grievance appeals must be completed and held on file, unless other arrangements have been made with the local grievance coordinator prior to OYA’s custody termination. 
(10) Grievances or grievance appeals received by OYA after a youth in custody has been discharged from, or is otherwise no longer in, OYA’s legal or physical custody will not be processed. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 420A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 420A.010, 420A.014, 420A.015 & 420A.108 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 9-2022, amend filed 12/13/2022, effective 12/14/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 2-2020, amend filed 01/29/2020, effective 01/30/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 3-2003, f. & cert. ef. 8-20-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OYA 2-1995, f. 12-19-95, cert. ef. 1-2-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
