



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 OREGON NATURAL HERITAGE PROGRAM RULES 
 141-050-0940 
 Instruments of Dedication 
 
 (1) Private Dedication — A private individual or organization which is the owner of any registered natural area may voluntarily agree to dedicate that area as a Natural Heritage Conservation Area by executing with the Board, following review by the Council, an instrument of dedication. Instrument provisions and policies include, but are not limited to, the following:  (a) An agreement that provides each element in the Natural Heritage Conservation Area with the most secure protection obtainable;  (b) An unlimited period of time, or a term sufficiently long to warrant dedication protection;  (c) Permission for conducting scientific research and other activities shall be commensurate with Program objectives;  (d) Management policies for the site, which may include all or part of the Management of Natural Heritage Conservation Areas in OAR 141-050-0935 through 141-050-0999;  (e) Termination of dedication may occur upon written notification to the Board, including specific reasons for termination, and provision by the Council of opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing.  (2) The Instrument of Dedication of an area under private ownership shall be filed by the Board in the office of the clerk of the county in which any or all of the Natural Heritage Conservation Area is located, and shall be effective upon its recording.  (3) A copy of the dedication and management agreement(s) shall be provided to the private owner of a Natural Heritage Conservation Area.  (4) Public Agency Dedication — Any public agency may dedicate lands under the provisions of ORS 273.563 to 273.591, and the Plan, after providing the opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing by the agency.  (5) The Oregon Transportation Commission, the State Fish and Wildlife Commission, the State Board of Forestry, the State Board of Higher Education and the State Land Board shall, with the advice and assistance of the Council, establish procedures for the dedication of Natural Heritage Conservation Areas on land or water, the title of which is held by the State of Oregon, and which is under that agency's management and control. The instrument(s) of dedication and management shall contain any information or provisions as the agency and Council consider necessary to complete the dedication.  (6) Termination of the dedication of a Natural Heritage Conservation Area by a public agency requires:  (a) Provision of opportunity for adequate public notice and hearing;  (b) A finding by the agency of an imperative and unavoidable necessity due to natural disaster in the site, need of the natural resource during time of declared war, or the need of the natural resource because of extreme economic crisis of the state;  (c) A finding by that agency, with the approval of the Council that the Natural Heritage Conservation Area is no longer needed according to the guidelines of the Plan, or has permanently lost its character. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273.563 - 273.591 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 9-2008, f. & cert. ef. 12-10-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 LB 9-1982, f. & ef. 10-1-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
