



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 39 NET METERING RULES 
 860-039-0030 
 Tier 1 Net Metering Interconnection Review
 
 
 (1) A net metering facility meeting the following criteria is eligible for Tier 1 interconnection review: 

 (a) The facility is inverter-based; and 

 (b) The facility has a generation capacity of 50 kilowatts or less and an export capacity of 25 kilowatts or less. 

 (2) The public utility must approve a complete application for interconnection under the Tier 1 net metering interconnection review procedure if the net metering facility meets the eligibility requirements in section (1) of this rule and the facility meets the Tier 1 interconnection screening criteria set forth in OAR 860-082-0045(2)(a)-(f): 

 (3) Within 10 business days after the public utility notifies a Tier 1 applicant that the application is complete, the public utility must notify the applicant whether the facility meets the Tier 1 screening criteria. 

 (4) If a public utility does not notify a Tier 1 applicant in writing or by electronic mail whether the interconnection application passes the Tier 1 screening criteria within 20 business days after the receipt of a complete application, the interconnection application will be deemed approved. Interconnections approved under this section remain subject to sections (7) and (8) below. 

 (5) Approval despite screen failure. 

 (a) Despite the failure of one or more screening criteria, the public utility, at its sole option, may approve the interconnection provided such approval is consistent with safety and reliability. 

 (b) If the public utility determines that the customer-generator can be interconnected safely if minor modifications to the transmission or distribution system were made (for example, changing meters, fuses, or relay settings), then the public utility must offer the applicant a good-faith, non-binding estimate of the costs of such proposed minor modifications. Modifications are not considered minor under this subsection if the total cost of the modifications exceeds $10,000. If the applicant authorizes the public utility to proceed with the minor modifications and agrees to pay the entire cost of the modifications, then the public utility must approve the application. 

 (6) Process after screen failure. If the public utility cannot determine that the customer-generator may nevertheless be interconnected consistent with safety, reliability, and power quality standards, at the time the public utility notifies the applicant of the Tier 1 review results the public utility shall provide the applicant with: 

 (a) The screen results, including specific information on the reason(s) for failure in writing using a standard format approved by the Commission; and 

 (b) An executable Supplemental Review Agreement. 

 (c) In addition, the public utility shall allow the applicant to select one of the following, at the applicant's option: 

 (A) Request an applicant options meeting;  

 (B) Undergo supplemental review in accordance with OAR 860-082-0063; or 

 (C) Continue evaluating the application under Tier 4. 

 (d) The applicant must notify the public utility of its selection under subsection (c) within 10 business days, or the application will be deemed withdrawn. 

 (7) Applicant options meeting. If the applicant requests an applicant options meeting, the public utility shall offer to convene a meeting at a mutually agreeable time within 15 business days of the applicant's request. At the applicant options meeting, the public utility shall provide the applicant the opportunity to review the screen analysis and related results, to designate a different RPA, to review possible customers-generator modifications, and to discuss what further steps are needed to permit the net metering facility to connect safely and reliably. 

 (8) With three business days after sending the notice to an applicant that the proposed interconnection application meets the Tier 1 interconnection requirements, a public utility must notify the applicant whether: 

 (a) An inspection of the net metering facility for compliance with the net metering rules is required prior to the operation of the facility; and 

 (b) An interconnection agreement is required for the net metering facilities. If required, the public utility must also execute and send to the applicant a Tier 1 interconnection agreement, unless the applicant has already submitted such an agreement with its application for interconnection. 

 (9) On receipt of any required executed interconnection agreement from the applicant and satisfactory completion of any required inspection, the public utility will approve the interconnection, conditioned on compliance with all applicable building codes. 

 (10) A customer-generator will notify the public utility of the anticipated start date for operation of the net metering facility at least five business days prior to starting operation, either through the submittal of the interconnection agreement or in a separate notice. If the public utility requires an inspection of the net metering facility, the applicant will not begin operating the facility until satisfactory completion of the inspection. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, ORS 756 & ORS 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & ORS 757.300 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-2024, amend filed 04/09/2024, effective 04/09/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 8-2007, f. & cert. ef. 7-27-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
