



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 5 STATEWIDE PLANNING STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC OUTDOOR RECREATION 
 736-005-0020 
 Standards 
 
 Whereas the State Parks Director has been designated by the Governor as the State Liaison Officer (SLO) to the Federal Department of the Interior and is charged with the responsibility to administer the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Planning process, the following standards shall apply:  (1) Problem Identification. In order to identify problems or potential recreational planning issues, the Department shall:  (a) Maintain continuous contacts with citizen and professional organizations, and special interest groups.  (b) Periodically review Oregon comprehensive land use planning processes and documents; state, legislative and national directives.  (2) Citizen Participation. In order to ensure maximum citizen participation, the Department shall:  (a) Use workshops, news releases, public hearing notices, surveys, questionnaires and/or other means to inform citizens and solicit participation on statewide planning issues, and shall document in writing those activities and the extent of participation by the public;  (b) Maintain a mailing list of citizens, agencies, handicapped and minority persons, by which it shall notify and solicit citizen ideas and participation;  (c) Notify the news media at least two weeks before any official public hearings, workshops or other public meetings;  (d) Utilize the citizen participation activities conducted by other agencies or units of government if those actions would eliminate duplications of effort and/or supplement the Department’s efforts, if it relates specifically to the planning issue being considered, and if it can be documented in writing.  (3) Development of Documents. Before any action or decision affecting statewide recreation planning, the Department shall:  (a) Take into account all input received and prepare a draft document for review;  (b) Circulate the draft document to constituent groups, make the document available to any citizen upon request, and have the document available for public viewing at the State Parks Office in Salem, Oregon and the region State Parks Offices in Portland, Tillamook, Coos Bay, Bend, and La Grande;  (c) Prepare a final document based upon all input received, including comments received from the draft document.  (4) Outreach Programs. In all cases the Department shall: Develop special outreach programs, determined on a case-by-case basis, if the above-mentioned standards are not sufficient to provide adequate participation and information by minority or special populations.  (5) Planning Advisory Committee for SCORP:  (a) The SLO will appoint a nine-member Advisory Committee comprised of one member from each of the following sectors:  (A) County Parks Departments;  (B) City Parks Departments;  (C) Park and Recreation Districts;  (D) Citizen at large;  (E) Private sector;  (F) Federal and state agency representatives;  (G) Minority representative;  (H) Handicapped representative.  (b) This committee will meet as necessary to review and establish recommendations for alternative actions and formulation of draft proposals. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.545, 183.550 & 390.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 3-1993, f. & cert. ef. 1-29-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 6-1984, f. & ef. 10-29-84 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 5-1981, f. & ef. 4-1-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
