



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 45 PRIVATE VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS 
 581-045-0584 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in OAR 581-045-0584 through 581-045-0587, the following definitions apply: 

 (1)(a) “Conviction” means: 

 (A) Any adjudication in any criminal court of law, in this state or in any other jurisdiction, finding the individual committed a crime. A crime is an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment is authorized. 

 (B) Any adjudication in a juvenile proceeding, in this state or in any other jurisdiction, determining that the individual committed an offense, which if done by an adult, would constitute a crime listed in ORS 342.143. 

 (C) Any conduct which resulted in mandatory registration reporting as a sex offender in this state or any other jurisdiction or current requirement to register as a sex offender. A later court order or other action relieving the individual of the sex offender registration/reporting requirement does not affect the status of the conduct as a conviction for purposes of this rule. 

  (D) Any plea of guilty, no contest or nolo contendere in connection with a crime, in this state or in any other jurisdiction. 

 (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the following additional guidelines apply when determining whether a conviction exists: 

 (A) A conviction does not exist where a dismissal was later entered into the record in connection with a diversion or on any sort of deferred adjudication or delayed entry of judgment. 

 (B) A conviction does not exist where an Oregon court has expunged or otherwise removed a conviction from the record of an individual. A conviction does exist for purposes of this rule even if a crime was expunged or removed from the record of the individual under the laws of another jurisdiction if the crime would be ineligible under ORS 137.225 for expunction or removal from the record if the conviction had occurred in Oregon. 

 (C) A conviction does not exist where an individual was granted a full pardon by executive order of the Governor of this state. A conviction does exist for purposes of this rule even if a crime was pardoned by executive order in another jurisdiction, unless the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines that the pardon issued by the other jurisdiction is the equivalent of a full pardon by executive order in this state. 

 (D) Except as noted above, a conviction does not exist only where there was a judicial adjudication that the individual did not commit the offense in question, or when a conviction, adjudication or plea is overturned by an appellate court of record and no later conviction, adjudication or plea indicating the individual committed the offense in question is on the record. 

 (2) “DAS” means State of Oregon, Department of Administrative Services; 

 (3) "Direct, unsupervised contact with students" means contact with students that provides the person opportunity and probability for personal communication or touch when not under direct supervision; 

 (4) “DOB” means date of birth; 

 (5) “FBI” means the Federal Bureau of Investigations; 

 (6) “Fingerprint information” means all information requested by the Oregon Department of Education for processing the fingerprint application, including the following: 

 (a) One properly completed fingerprint submission; and 

 (b) A properly completed Oregon Department of Education fingerprint based criminal history verification form. 

 (7) “Knowingly made a false statement” means failure to disclose on the Oregon Department of Education fingerprint based criminal history verification form as part of the criminal records check process any of the following: 

 (a) A conviction of a felony; 

 (b) Any conviction of a misdemeanor within the previous 20 years; 

 (c) Any conviction of a misdemeanor that is listed in ORS 342.143 or its substantial equivalent in another jurisdiction. 

 (8) “LEDS” means the Law Enforcement Data System; 

 (9) "Private School" means a school that: 

 (a) Offers education in prekindergarten, kindergarten or grades 1 through 12, or any combination of those grade levels; and 

 (b) Provides instructional programs that are not limited solely to dancing, drama, music, religious or athletic instruction. 

 (10) “Subject individual” means: 

 (a) A person hired by a private school within the last three months to a position not requiring licensure under ORS 342.223; and 

 (b) Any person hired as or by a contractor into a position having direct, unsupervised contact with students and not requiring licensure under ORS 342.223. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 326.051 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 326.603 & ORS 326.607 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 7-2023, amend filed 03/29/2023, effective 03/29/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 22-2019, adopt filed 06/25/2019, effective 06/25/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
