



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 503 SANDY BASIN PROGRAM 
 690-503-0060 
 Special Permit Conditions 
 
 Permits issued to appropriate groundwater from aquifers in the Sandy Basin shall be specially conditioned. The conditions shall specify:  (1) Use of water from the well, as allowed herein, shall be regulated if the well displays:  (a) An average water level decline of three or more feet per year for five consecutive years; or  (b) A total water level decline of fifteen or more feet; or  (c) A hydraulic interference decline of fifteen or more feet in any neighboring well providing water for senior exempt uses or wells covered by prior rights.  (2) The permittee/appropriator shall install a meter or other measuring device suitable to the Director, and shall keep a complete record of water uses.  (3) The permittee/appropriator shall be responsible for complying with each of the following requirements for measuring water levels in the well:  (a) Use of water from a new well shall not begin until the initial water level in the well has been measured. A measurement of initial water level shall be made at the time a pump is installed, but before pumping begins;  (b) In addition to the measurement required in subsection (a) of this section, a water level measurement shall be made each year at the time of spring high water during the period March 15 through April 15;  (c) All water level measurements shall be made by a qualified individual. Qualified individuals include certified water rights examiners, licensed water well drillers, registered geologists, registered professional engineers, registered land surveyors, or the permittee/appropriator;  (d) Any qualified individual measuring a well shall use standard methods of procedure and equipment designed for the purpose of well measurement. The equipment used shall be well suited to the conditions of construction at the well. A list of standard methods of procedure and suitable equipment shall be available from the Department;  (e) The permittee/appropriator shall submit a record of the measurement to the Department on a form available from the Department. The record of measurement shall be received not later than 30 days from the date of measurement.  (4) The Department shall determine when any of the declines cited in section (1) of this rule are evidenced by the well measurement required in section (3) of this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.220, 536.300 & 536.310 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 4-1991, f. & cert. ef. 3-14-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
