



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of the State Fire Marshal 
 Chapter 837 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 47 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTORS 
 837-047-0110 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Attached garage” means a garage with a door, ductwork, or ventilation shaft communicating directly with or connected to a living space and does not include:  (a) A carport;  (b) An open parking garage; or  (c) An enclosed parking garage ventilated in accordance with Section 404 of the State Mechanical Code.  (2) “Bedroom” means a room designed or intended for sleeping.  (3) “Carbon monoxide alarm” means a device that:  (a)(A) Detects carbon monoxide;  (B) Produces a distinctive audible alert when carbon monoxide is detected;  (C) Is listed by Underwriters Laboratories as complying with ANSI/UL 2034 or ANSI/UL 2075 or any other nationally recognized testing laboratory or an equivalent organization; and  (D) Operates as a distinct unit, as two or more single station units wired to operate in conjunction with each other or as part of a system that includes carbon monoxide detectors.  (b) For the purposes of these rules, “carbon monoxide detectors that are part of a system that produces a distinctive audible alert and are listed as complying with ANSI/UL 2075 shall be considered carbon monoxide alarms.  (4) “Carbon monoxide source” means:  (a) A heater, fireplace, furnace, appliance, or cooking source that uses coal, wood, petroleum products, and other fuels that emit carbon monoxide as a by-product of combustion. Petroleum products include, but are not limited to, kerosene, natural gas, or propane.  (b) An attached garage with a door, ductwork, or ventilation shaft that communicates directly with a living space.  (5) “Dwelling unit” means: A structure or the part of a structure that is used as a home, residence or sleeping place by one person who maintains a household or by two or more persons who maintain a common household.  (6) “Landlord” means the owner, lessor, or sublessor of the rental dwelling unit or the building or premises of which it is a part. “Landlord” includes but is not limited to a person who is authorized by the owner, lessor, or subleasor to manage the premises or to enter into a rental agreement.  (7) “Manufactured Dwelling” means a dwelling as defined in ORS 446.  (8) “Multifamily housing” means a building, excluding townhouses, in which three or more residential dwelling units each have space for eating, living, sleeping, and permanent provisions for cooking and sanitation.  (9) “Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory” means a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) that is U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) accredited to test and certify to American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards.  (10) “One and two family dwelling” means a residential building that is regulated under the state building code as a one and two family dwelling and includes a townhouse.  (11) “Owner” includes a duly authorized agent or attorney, a purchaser, devisee, fiduciary, lessor or sublessor and/or a person having a vested or contingent interest in the property in question.  (12) “Person” means one or more individuals, legal representatives, partnerships, joint ventures, associations, corporations (whether or not organized for profit), business trusts, or any organized group of persons and includes the state, state agencies, counties, municipal corporations, school districts, and other public corporations or subdivisions.  (13) “State Fire Marshal” means the State Fire Marshal appointed under ORS 476.020 and the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal and Deputy State Fire Marshals appointed by the State Fire Marshal under ORS 476.040.  (14) “Townhouse” means a single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or more attached units in which each extends from the foundation to the roof and at least two sides abut open space. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 476.725 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 476.725 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 7-2010, f. 12-1-10, cert. ef. 12-28-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSFM 3-2010(Temp), f. 4-8-10, cert. ef. 7-1-10 thru 12-28-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
