



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Public Safety Standards and Training 
 Chapter 259 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 POLICY COMMITTEES 
 259-006-0005 
 Policy Committee Appointments
 
 
 (1) This rule applies to policy committee appointments for members who do not serve on a policy committee by virtue of their position on the Board on Public Safety Standards and Training. 

 (2) Definitions. 

 (a) "Board" means the Board on Public Safety Standards and Training. 

 (b) "Department" means the Department of Public Safety Standards and Training. 

 (c) “Interest Form” means an application for consideration submitted by a person expressing interest in serving on a policy committee. 

 (3) Applying for an Appointment to a Policy Committee. 

 (a) An interest form must be submitted to the Department in order to be considered for an appointment to a policy committee. 

 (b) Any interested person may submit a completed interest form to the Department in order to apply for an appointment to a policy committee. 

 (c) Interest forms are available on the Department’s website or from the Department upon request. 

 (d) Completed interest forms will be kept on file for a period of two years for future consideration. Interest forms will be destroyed after two years have elapsed from the date the form was received by the Department. 

 (e) The Department will acknowledge receipt of each completed interest form. 

 (4) Applicants may be subject to a background investigation to verify the person’s fitness to serve on a policy committee. Pursuant to ORS 236.030, no policy committee member subject to this rule may be a member of, or affiliated with, any organization that teaches or advocates the disruption of state or federal government. 

 (5) Vacancies. 

 (a) A vacancy exists when a policy committee member subject to this rule completes the term for that position; resigns; becomes incapacitated, or is otherwise incapable of performing the duties of a member; has been removed from the appointment for just cause; is not reappointed; is no longer employed in the position that the appointment represents; or is no longer affiliated with the association or organization that the appointment represents. 

 (b) Any vacancy subject to this rule will be filled in the same manner as an initial appointment. 

 (c) Unless otherwise defined by section (8), the Department will work in consultation with the employer, association or organization that the vacancy represents, as defined by ORS 181A.375, to identify a replacement member. The employer’s, association’s or organization’s recommendation will be forwarded to the Board chair for consideration and recommendation to the full Board. 

 (6) The Board’s decisions regarding an appointment to a policy committee are final and are not subject to appeal. 

 (7) The chairperson of the board may remove an appointed member for just cause. 

 (8) Appointments to a Policy Committee for Vacancies Not Representing an Employer, Association or Organization as Defined in ORS 181A.375. 

 (a) Appointment of a Public Member to a Policy Committee. Upon a vacancy, all interest forms and background information will be submitted to the Board chair for consideration. The Board chair will make a recommendation for appointment to the full Board for approval. 

 (b) Appointment of a Private Security Provider or Private Investigator to the Private Security Policy Committee (PSIPC). Upon a vacancy, all interest forms and background information will be submitted to the PSIPC chair and vice-chair for consideration. The PSIPC chair and vice-chair will make a recommendation for appointment to the full Board for approval. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 181A.410 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 181A.410 & ORS 181A.375 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DPSST 22-2017, amend filed 12/29/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BPSST 6-2002, f. & cert. ef. 4-3-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BPSST 10-2001(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 10-26-01 thru 4-5-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
