



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 500 FISH MANAGEMENT PLANS 
 635-500-3890 
 Chinook Salmon in Upper Klamath Lake and Tributaries 
 
 (1) Goal: Restore naturally reproducing self-sustaining populations of Chinook salmon into suitable habitat in Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (2) Policies:  (a) A Re-Introduction Implementation Plan shall be prepared to guide re-introduction of Chinook salmon into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (b) The Re-Introduction Implementation Plan shall identify near-term and long-term actions necessary to address key uncertainties and develop specific strategies for achieving the goals of re-introduction.  (c) The Re-Introduction Implementation Plan shall identify and address key uncertainties necessary to complete an Anadromous Fish Conservation Plan for the Oregon portion of the Klamath River, Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries, consistent with stipulations of the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife's (Department's) Native Fish Conservation Policy (OAR 635-007-0503).  (d) As part of the Re-Introduction Implementation Plan, a stock recruitment model will be developed for Chinook salmon utilizing Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries to determine specific escapement numbers necessary to meet conservation and other management goals to be finalized in the Anadromous Fish Conservation Plan.  (e) Release of Chinook salmon into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries shall not occur until the Re-Introduction Implementation Plan is completed.  (f) An Anadromous Fish Conservation Plan for Chinook salmon in Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries, consistent with the stipulations of the Department’s Native Fish Conservation Policy (OAR 635-007-0503) shall be prepared for Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission approval, once self sustaining population(s) of Chinook salmon are established in Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (g) The Anadromous Fish Conservation Plan prepared for Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission approval shall provide policy direction to guide management of established anadromous fish populations in the Oregon portion of the Klamath Basin. This plan will be incorporated into a comprehensive plan for fisheries management of the entire Klamath River Basin that will fulfill requirements of the Pacific Fisheries Management Council.  (h) Klamath Basin stocks of Chinook salmon have priority over out-of-basin stocks of Chinook salmon for re-introduction into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (i) Hatchery production and supplementation efforts associated with reintroduction of Chinook salmon into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries will be developed consistent with Fish Hatchery Management Policy and guidelines (OAR 635-007-0542).  (j) As part of active efforts to re-establish runs of anadromous fish, only pathogen free eggs or juvenile Chinook salmon will be released into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (k) Once adult Chinook salmon are volitionally returning to Keno Dam, they will be seasonally trapped and moved upstream as needed.  (3) Objectives:  (a) Determine the most appropriate stock(s) of Chinook salmon to re-introduce into Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (b) Restore self-sustaining populations of Chinook salmon in Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (c) Protect and improve Chinook salmon habitat in Upper Klamath Lake and tributaries.  (d) Integrate self sustaining populations of Chinook salmon returning to the Oregon portion of the Klamath River Basin into tribal, sport and commercial fisheries through development of an Anadromous Fish Conservation Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138, 496.146 & and 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.162, 506.109 & and 506.129 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DFW 84-2008, f. & cert. ef. 7-28-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
