



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 49 MODEL RULES GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 137-049-0910 
 Changes to the Work and Contract Amendments
 
 
 (1) Definitions for Rule. As used in this rule: 

 (a) “Amendment” means a Written modification to the terms and conditions of a Public Improvement Contract, other than by Changes to the Work, within the general scope of the original Procurement that requires mutual agreement between the Contracting Agency and the Contractor. 

 (b) “Changes to the Work” means a mutually agreed upon change order, or a construction change directive or other Written order issued by the Contracting Agency or its authorized representatives to the Contractor requiring a change in the Work within the general scope of a Public Improvement Contract and issued under its changes provisions in administering the Contract and, if applicable, adjusting the Contract Price or contract time for the changed Work. 

 (2) Changes Provisions. Changes to the Work are anticipated in construction and, accordingly, Contracting Agencies shall include changes provisions in all Public Improvement Contracts that detail the scope of the changes clause, provide pricing mechanisms, authorize the Contracting Agency or its authorized representatives to issue Changes to the Work and provide a procedure for addressing Contractor claims for additional time or compensation. When Changes to the Work are agreed to or issued consistent with the Contract’s changes provisions they are not considered to be new Procurements and an exemption from competitive bidding is not required for their issuance by Contracting Agencies. 

 (3) Change Order Authority. Contracting Agencies may establish internal limitations and delegations for authorizing Changes to the Work, including dollar limitations. Dollar limitations on Changes to the Work are not set by these Model Rules, but such changes are limited by the above definition of that term. 

 (4) Contract Amendments. Contract Amendments within the general scope of the original Procurement are not considered to be new Procurements and an exemption from competitive bidding is not required in order to add components or phases of Work specified in or reasonably implied from the Solicitation Document. Amendments to a Public Improvement Contract may be made only when: 

 (a) They are within the general scope of the original Procurement; 

 (b) The field of competition and Contractor selection would not likely have been affected by the Contract modification. Factors to be considered in making that determination include similarities in Work, project site, relative dollar values, differences in risk allocation and whether the original Procurement was accomplished through competitive bidding, competitive Proposals, competitive quotes, sole source or Emergency contract; 

 (c) In the case of a Contract obtained under an Alternative Contracting Method, any additional Work was specified or reasonably implied within the Findings supporting the competitive bidding exemption; and 

 (d) The Amendment is made consistent with this rule and other applicable legal requirements. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279A.065, 279C.335 & 279C.400 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 27-2023, amend filed 12/27/2023, effective 01/02/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 20-2005, f. 12-27-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
