



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0490 
 Show Pools 
 
 (1) The amounts wagered to Show on the first three betting interests to finish are deducted from the net pool, the balance remaining being the profit; the profit is divided into three equal portions, one being assigned to each winning betting interest and divided by the amount wagered to Show on that betting interest, the resulting quotient being the profit per dollar wagered to Show on that betting interest.  (2) The net Show pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) If contestants of a coupled entry or mutuel field finished in the first three places, as a single price pool to those who selected the coupled entry or mutuel field; otherwise  (b) If contestants of a coupled entry or mutuel field finished as two of the first three finishers, the profit is divided with two-thirds (2/3) distributed to those who selected the coupled entry or mutuel field and one-third (1/3) distributed to those who selected the other betting interest included within the first three finishers; otherwise  (c) As a profit split to those whose selection is included within the first three finishers; but if there are no such wagers on one of those three finishers; then  (d) As a profit split to those who selected one of the two covered betting interests included within the first three finishers; but if there are no such wagers on two of those three finishers, then  (e) As a single price pool to those who selected the one covered betting interest included within the first three finishers; but if there are no such wagers; then  (f) As a single price pool to those who selected the fourth-place finisher; but if there are no such wagers; then  (g) The entire pool shall be refunded on Show wagers for that contest.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first involving:  (a) Two contestants representing the same betting interest, the profit is divided with two-thirds (2/3) distributed to those who selected the first-place finishers and one-third (1/3) distributed to those who selected the betting interest finishing third.  (b) Three contestants representing a single betting interest, the Show pool shall be distributed as a single price pool.  (c) Contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Show pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (4) If there is a dead heat for second involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the profit is divided with one-third (1/3) distributed to those who selected the betting interest finishing first and two-thirds (2/3) distributed to those who selected the second-place finishers.  (b) Contestants representing two betting interests, the Show pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (c) Contestants representing three betting interests, the Show pool is divided with one-third (1/3) of the profit distributed to Show wagers on the betting interest finishing first and the remainder is distributed equally amongst Show wagers on those betting interests involved in the dead heat for second.  (5) If there is a dead heat for third involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the Show pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (b) Contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Show pool is divided with two-thirds (2/3) of the profit distributed to Show wagers on the betting interests finishing first and second and the remainder is distributed equally amongst Show wagers on those betting interests involved in the dead heat for third. Table 3, Table 4. [Tables not included. See ED. NOTE.]  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
