



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-1910 
 General Equipment Guarding 
 
 (1) Scope — These are general requirements that apply to all equipment.  (2) Definitions.  (a) Ground driven components — Components powered by the turning motion of a wheel as the equipment travels over the ground.  (b) Guard or shield — A barrier to protect against contact with a moving machine part.  (c) Point of operation — The area of a machine that contacts the work material.  (d) Power take-off shafts — Shafts and knuckles between the tractor, or other power source, and the first gear set, pulley, sprocket, or other components on power take-off shaft driven equipment.  (3) Operating instructions. Instruct every employee on their initial assignment about the safe operation and servicing of all equipment they will use. Renew this instruction at least annually. Include at least these safe practices:  (a) Keep all guards in place when the machine is in use;  (b) Permit no riders on farm field equipment other than persons required for instruction or assistance;  (c) Stop engine, disconnect the power source and wait for all machine movement to stop before servicing, adjusting, cleaning, or unclogging the equipment. Instruct employees in the safe procedures necessary to service or maintain the equipment when it must remain running;  (d) Make sure everyone is clear of machinery before starting the engine, engaging power, or operating the machine;  (e) Refer to and comply with 4/J, OAR 437-004-1275, Lockout/Tagout.  (4) Methods of guarding. Except as otherwise stated, prevent contact with moving machinery parts as follows:  (a) By a guard or shield or guarding by location;  (b) When a guard or shield or guarding by location is infeasible, use a guardrail or fence.  (5) Strength and design of guards.  (a) Design and place guards to protect against inadvertent contact with the hazard. [Table not included. See ED. NOTE.]  NOTE: Minimum requirements for guards are in Table 1.  (b) Unless otherwise specified, each guard and its supports must be able to withstand the force applied to it.  (c) Guards must be free from burrs, sharp edges, and sharp corners. Secure guards to the equipment or building.  (6) Guarding by location. A component is guarded by location during operation, maintenance, or servicing when, because of its location, no employee can inadvertently come in contact with the hazard.  (7) Guarding by railings. Use guardrails or fences to protect employees from inadvertently entering the hazardous area.  (8) Servicing and maintenance. When a moving machinery part presents a hazard during servicing or maintenance, stop the engine, disconnect the power source, and wait for all machine movement to stop before proceeding, except where the employer can establish that:  (a) The equipment must be running for proper service or maintenance; and  (b) Service or maintenance is not possible while a guard or guards required by these rules are in place.  (9) Miscellaneous general requirements. Cover or install a guard on machines that throw stock, material, or objects. (Such machines as rip saws, rotary mowers and beaters, rotary tillers are a few in this classification.)  (10) Machine controls.  (a) A power control switch to stop the machine or machine feed must be within reach of the operator without leaving their normal operating position.  (b) Mark the power control switch to indicate its function and the machine that it controls. Indicate the positions of ON and OFF.  (c) On fixed machines, use red or orange to mark “Stop” buttons. Each machine must have one or more stop buttons according to the working position of the operator or operators.  (d) Locate and guard the machine control switch to prevent its unexpected or accidental movement. Recess electrical switch “Start” buttons.  (11) Anchoring fixed machinery. Securely anchor machines designed for a fixed location to prevent walking or moving.  [ED. NOTE: Tables referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
