



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 118 STATE AGENCY ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM 
 330-118-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 As used in Chapter 487, Oregon Laws 1991 and in these rules, the following terms shall have the following definitions, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:  (1) “Baseline Energy Budget” means the expenditure limitation amount budgeted for energy costs by the agency immediately prior to installation of the project.  (2) “Budget and Management Division” means the Department of Administrative Services Budget and Management Division.  (3) “Cogeneration” has the meaning given that term in ORS 758.505(2).  (4) “Department” means the Oregon Department of Energy.  (5) “Efficiency of Energy Use” means the ratio of output (work done) to input (energy used).  (6) “Electric Utility” means a utility which is regulated by the state or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that provides retail electric power to consumers.  (7) “Energy Cost savings” means the dollar savings based on the annual monitored savings from the project calculated as follows:  (a) For projects which do not sell energy or power to an electric utility or the Bonneville Power Administration, energy savings times the last rate in effect or fuel cost during the monitored savings period;  (b) For projects which sell energy or power, the amount of energy or power delivered to one or more electric utilities or the Bonneville Power Administration as a result of the project times the rates(s) stated in the energy or power sales agreement(s);  (c) For projects which do not either sell or use all of their energy or power savings or production, the energy cost savings shall be the sum of amounts proportionally calculated as in subsection (a) and (b) of this section.  (8) “Energy Savings” means the amount of energy not used as a result of the project as compared to a prior period. Prior period energy use may be adjusted for changes in building use or occupancy. Energy savings result from the efficiency of energy use. Energy savings shall be measured in millions of Btus (MMBtus), and may be the result of vehicle, aircraft or vessel miles not travelled.  (9) “Gas Utility” means a public utility as defined in ORS 757.005(1)(a)(A) which provides natural gas service to consumers.  (10) “Infrastructure Improvements” means improvements to facilities, buildings, equipment and other components which make up and support the physical structure of the agency.  (11) “Monitored Savings” means measurements of actual energy savings or the miles reduced per vehicle, and may include, but not be limited to, energy accounting systems, energy bill comparisons, and metering. Subject to the approval of the Department, engineering estimates may be used in cases where measurement of actual savings is not practical.  (12) “Net Savings” means the operating savings and the energy cost savings, after debt service, leases, operations and maintenance costs, service contracts insurance, fuels and their transport and storage, transmission, and other recurring direct costs, resulting from a project. Net savings shall accrue only during the savings period.  (13) “Operating Savings” means reduction or elimination of: labor or service contracts; demand charges; chemicals; maintenance of energy consuming conversion and distribution equipment; replacement equipment; and lubricants and maintenance expenses in the case of vehicles, aircrafts, and vessels; providing each item is $1,000 or more annually.  (14) “Performance Measures” means performance measures, as required by Executive Department, that address energy use in buildings, facilities, and transportation. Wherever possible the performance measures should be based on monitored savings, or metered power and energy production.  (15) “Project” means a state agency’s improvement of the efficiency of energy use, development of cogeneration facilities or use of renewable resources by or at state facilities. For the purposes of these rules, a project includes only those agency activities which the agency is pursuing under the authority of ORS 469.754.  (16) “Renewable Resources” has the meaning given that term in ORS 758.505(9)(a).  (17) “Revolving Fund” means a fund in the State Treasury, or a separate account or fund in the General Fund in the State Treasury, that by law is dedicated, appropriated or set aside for the purposes listed in ORS 469.754(3). “Revolving fund” does not have the meaning used in 291.002 or the State Accounting Manual, Section 21 05 01(4) self-sustaining accounts.  (18) “Savings Period” means:  (a) For energy efficiency projects without an energy or power sales contract with an electric utility or the Bonneville Power Administration, the expected useful life of the project;  (b) For energy efficiency, cogeneration or renewable resource projects which provide energy or power pursuant to a contract with an electric utility or the Bonneville Power Administration, the term of the contract or the expected useful life of the project whichever is greater; or  (c) For cogeneration and renewable resource projects without an energy or power sales contract with an electric utility or the Bonneville Power Administration, the expected useful life of the project;  (d) For projects which provide energy or power to any combination of the state agency, an electric utility or the Bonneville Power Administration, the longest term of any energy or power sales contract or the expected useful life of the project, whichever is greater.  (19) “Service” has the meaning given that term in ORS 856.010.  (20) “State Agency” has the meaning given that term in ORS 278.005  (21) “State Facility” means the land and all buildings, structures, improvements, machinery, equipment or fixtures, and tangible personal property including, but not limited to vehicles, aircraft, vessels as defined by ORS 278.005, moveable machinery and equipment, and moveable fixtures, which are erected or operated on, above or under the land, which is owned, leased, controlled or possessed by a state agency.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469.752 - 469.756 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.752 - 469.756 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 2-1994, f. & cert. ef. 12-12-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 1-1992, f. & cert. ef. 4-30-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
