



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Administrative Services 
 Chapter 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 160 ADMINISTRATION AND BENEFITS OF THE INMATE INJURY SYSTEM 
 125-160-0400 
 Claims Denials 
 
 (1) The Department shall deny benefits for any claim upon substantial evidence that the injury was caused by or arose, in whole or in any part, out of any of the following:  (a) The claimant’s intentionally self-inflicted injury, whether or not the full extent of actual injury was clearly expected. If an injury results from any act that would cause a reasonable person to conclude the actor intended or should have expected some self-injury, the whole injury shall be considered self-inflicted;  (b) The claimant’s willful violation of work rules or rules regulating inmate conduct or premises security. No issues relating to the legality or nature of any Corrections work, conduct, or premises rules, shall be considered in connection with a claim;  (c) The claimant’s active participation in an assault or combat. Combat shall not bar a claim if Corrections assigned the combat in writing to the inmate as an official duty he or she was required to perform. Any finding by Corrections that assault or combat occurred, shall stand unless reversed by Corrections through its appeal processes;  (d) The circumstances of the claimant being compelled to participate in any employment or training. No issues relating to the legality or nature of confinement, compulsory participation, or restrictions on inmate activities, shall be considered in connection with a claim;  (e) Disciplinary action taken by Corrections against the claimant. Correction’s disciplinary records, alone, shall be dispositive of this issue. Any dispute related to disciplinary action shall be resolved under the laws and rules relating to inmate discipline, control, or confinement. No issues relating to the legality or appropriateness of any disciplinary rule or action shall be considered in connection with a claim;  (f) Any action taken by Corrections to protect the safety of anyone or to maintain order. No issues relating to the legality or appropriateness of any action taken by Corrections to protect or maintain order shall be considered in connection with a claim; or  (g) Actions of other inmates. This phrase means any injurious actions of inmates except unintentional, negligent actions done in good faith as a direct part of the duties assigned to those inmates in their authorized work or training.  (2) In any case, the Department shall deny benefits for any claim, if:  (a) The claimant has a pending application for, or claimant’s medical condition or disability has been accepted or approved by, any other source of compensation for the injury. Within 60 days after the pending application for other compensation is finally rejected, claimant may request in writing that Department reconsider its claim denial under this paragraph.  (b) The only substantial evidence of when and where the claimant was injured is the report of the claimant or the report of the claimant and the testimony of one other inmate.  (c) The attending physician reasonably concludes that claimant’s present or prior participation in weightlifting, other athletics, abuse of drugs or alcohol or tobacco, or manufacture of drugs or drug components could have produced the medical findings of the purported injury.  (d) The attending physician concludes that the work or training assignment cannot reasonably account for claimant’s injury.  (e) The attending physician concludes that the injury or the disability would not have resulted from the event but for claimant’s pre-existing injuries, diseases, medical conditions, diseases of ordinary life, natural aging processes, hypersensitivity’s, mental or emotional health, or psychological reactions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.340, 278.405, 655.520 & 655.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 655.505 - 655.555 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DASII 2-1996, f. & cert. ef. 3-26-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DASII 2-1995(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 9-28-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
