



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 88 COMMUNITY SOLAR PROGRAM RULES 
 860-088-0160 
 Community Solar Program Funding 
 
 (1) Start-up costs incurred during the development or modification of the Community Solar Program are recoverable in electric company rates. These costs, which must be reviewed and approved by Commission order, include:  (a) Costs associated with the Program Administrator and Low-Income Facilitator; and  (b) Each electric company’s prudently-incurred start-up costs associated with implementing the Community Solar Program. These costs include, but are not limited to, costs associated with customer account information transfer and on-bill crediting and payment, but exclude any costs associated with the electric company developing a project.  (2) On-going costs of the Community Solar Program, including costs associated with the Program Administrator and the Low-Income Facilitator, are collected from participants.  (a) Each project is responsible for its appropriate share of on-going costs, as allocated in the Program Implementation Manual or otherwise determined by Commission order.  (b) If the Program Administrator or Low-Income Facilitator receives funds in excess of actual costs, the excess funds may be accrued and applied to offset future costs.  (c) If the Program Administrator or Low-Income Facilitator receives inadequate funds to continue performing its duties, the Commission may suspend further pre-certification of projects until the funding shortfall is resolved. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2016, ch. 28 & sec. 22 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 6-2017, f & cert. ef. 6-30-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
