



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 836-050-0305 
 Criteria for orders 
 
 (1) An order issued pursuant to section 2, chapter 22, Oregon Laws 2008 (Enrolled HB 3605):  (a) Must include the items required in that section to be specified by line of insurance; and  (b) Must make a statement of general findings that refers to the specific declaration of a state of emergency upon which the order is based, describes the need for the order and declares the harm to be prevented or mitigated by the order.  (2) If the Director determines that an order under this rule must address reporting requirements for claims, the Director shall consider to what extent the circumstances of the declared state of emergency prevent policyholders from using normal methods of reporting claims and shall determine what methods of reporting remain available to consumers in the affected areas. The Director shall prepare the order accordingly. The Director may direct insurers to accept alternative methods of reporting as may be available to policyholders and may extend the reporting period as appropriate, subject to limitations of section 2, chapter 22, Oregon Laws 2008.  (3) If the Director determines that an order under this rule must address grace periods for payment of insurance premiums and performance of other duties by insureds, the Director shall consider the extent to which the circumstances of the declared state of emergency prevent the payment and performance and shall prepare the order accordingly. The Director may direct insurers to extend the grace periods as appropriate, subject to limitations of section 2, chapter 2, Oregon Laws 2008.  (4) If the Director determines that an order under this rule must temporarily postpone policy cancellations and nonrenewals, the Director shall consider the extent to which the declared state of emergency prevents communication of notices of cancellation or nonrenewal from policyholders to their insurers and the extent to which communication is prevented from insurers to their policyholders. The Director shall prepare the order accordingly. The Director may direct insurers to accept alternative methods of communication of the notices and may postpone cancellations and nonrenewals as appropriate, subject to limitations of section 2, chapter 22, Oregon Laws 2008. An order including a temporary postponement under this section must include the following:  (a) The period for which an extension of policy coverage will apply and the method for determining premium for the extended term of coverage, and whether notices of cancellation or nonrenewals must be withdrawn and reissued;  (b) When and how an insurer that was unable to cancel or nonrenew a policy owing to an order may cancel or nonrenew the policy following the period to which the order applies, and the date on which the cancellation or nonrenewal may become effective; and  (c) That an insurer may not cancel or nonrenew a policy solely because of a claim resulting from the circumstances on which the emergency order is based, except that the Director may allow cancellation or nonrenewal of a policy under specific fact circumstances, including but not limited to fraud or material misrepresentation affecting the policy or in the presentation of a claim under the policy, upon application by an insurer.  (5) An order of the Director under this rule must establish at least the following matters, as appropriate:  (a) Whether the order applies to authorized insurers only or to other insurers as well;  (b) The classes and categories of insurance policies to which the order applies, whether by specific inclusion or exclusion;  (c) The categories of insureds and insured property to which the order applies.  (d) Whether an insurer who receives a claim from an insured owing premium may offset the premium due from any claim payment made under the policy;  (e) Whether a free look period in a variable life insurance policy or variable annuity contact is extended by the order; and  (f) Procedures to be followed by premium finance companies with respect to cancellation of policies, including notice, proof of notice and treatment of refunds.  (6) An extension of time by the Director under this rule does not relieve a policyholder who has a claim resulting from the state of emergency from compliance with the policyholder’s obligations to provide information and cooperate in the claim adjustment process relative to the claim. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 2008 OL Ch. 22 & Sec. 2 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2008 OL Ch. 22 & Sec. 2 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 12-2008, f. & cert. ef. 7-29-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 10-2008, f. & cert. ef. 6-30-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
