



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES FOR AUTHORIZING SPECIAL USES ON STATE-OWNED LAND 
 141-125-0170 
 General Terms and Conditions 
 
 (1) The term of a special use lease will not exceed 30 years unless otherwise approved by the Director. The Department will determine the length of a lease based on the nature of the use intended for the requested site. The Department may, at its discretion, provide as a provision of the lease that it may be renewed for a term to be determined by the Department.  (2) The term of a license will be less than three years. A license may, upon receipt by the Department of a written request, be renewed up to two times at the discretion of the Department for a maximum term of one year each time.  (3) Leases and licenses will be offered by the Department for the minimum area determined by the Department to be required for the requested use.  (4) A special use authorization issued by the Department will be on a form supplied by the Department that has been approved for legal sufficiency by the Department of Justice pursuant to ORS 291.045 to 291.047 (Public Contract Approval).  (5) The holder of a lease or license may request the Department close all or portions of the authorized area to public entry or restrict recreational use by the public to protect the persons, property, developments and/or crops from harm.  (6) The Department or its authorized representative(s) will have the right to enter into and upon the authorized area at any time for the purposes of inspection or management, or to conduct noxious plant or pest abatement, or for wildfire control.  (7) The holder of a special use authorization must dispose of all waste in a proper manner and must not permit debris, garbage or other refuse to either accumulate within the authorized area or be discharged into any waterway.  (8) Unless otherwise agreed to in writing as a provision of the authorization, the holder of a special use authorization may not interfere with lawful public use of an authorized area, or obstruct free transit across state land, or intimidate or otherwise threaten or harm public users of state land.  (9) The holder of a special use authorization must cooperate and comply with:  (a) Appropriate county agencies and the Oregon Department of Agriculture in the detection, prevention and control of noxious plants. The Department will rely on the Oregon Department of Agriculture for information concerning which noxious plants present on an authorized area require corrective action by the lessee or licensee, or the Oregon Department of Agriculture or its agents;  (b) The Oregon Department of Agriculture and the Department in the management of plant pests and diseases; and  (c) The Department and other agencies in the detection, prevention and control of wildfires on an authorized area.  (10) Unless otherwise agreed to in writing in the special use authorization, the holder of the authorization, must remove any or all developments as directed by the Department within 90 calendar days of the date of the expiration or termination of the authorization. The holder of a lease for a renewable energy project must remove any or all developments as directed by the Department within one year of the date of the expiration or termination of the authorization. If the holder of the special use authorization refuses to remove the subject developments, the Department may remove them and charge the holder for doing so.  (11) The holder of a special use authorization will not allow any other use to be made of, or occur on the site or facility that is not specifically authorized:  (a) By that authorization; or  (b) By the Department in writing prior to the use.  (12) The holder of a special use authorization must conduct all operations within the authorized area in a manner that conserves fish and wildlife habitat; protects water quality; and does not contribute to insect or animal infestation, soil erosion or the growth of noxious plants.  (13) The holder of a special use authorization must maintain all buildings, machinery, equipment and similar structures and improvements located within the authorized area in a good state of repair as determined by the Department.  (14) If requested by the Department, a holder of a special use authorization must present evidence to the Department prior to the use that they have obtained:  (a) All authorizations required by local, state, and federal governing bodies to undertake the proposed use;  (b) Any authorization that may be required to obtain access or to cross land belonging to a person other than the Department to undertake the use; and  (c) A surety bond and comprehensive or commercial general liability insurance required by the Department.  (15) The Department may require that a person who is granted a:  (a) Special use license by the Department to conduct an investigation or demonstration project using wind, solar energy or biomass to generate electricity to provide the results obtained from the investigation or demonstration project, or both, to the Department, or  (b) Short term access authorization by the Department for scientific or research purposes to provide the data obtained or developed from the investigation (for example, geological core logs or biological surveys) to the Department.  (16) The holder of a lease or license will indemnify the State of Oregon and the Department of State Lands against any claim or costs arising from or related to a release of a hazardous substance on or from the authorized area. Additionally, the Department may require that the holder of a short term access agreement also provide the same indemnification contingent on the use of the authorized area requested.  (17) A holder of a lease or license that provides for a renewal must reapply to the Department using a form provided by the Department and remit the required application processing fee to the Department. Unless otherwise allowed by the Director, this form must be received by the Department along with the required application processing fee at least 180 calendar days prior to the expiration of the lease or license for which renewal is requested. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OR Const. Art. VIII, Sec. 2 & 5 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 5-2015, f. & cert. ef. 12-29-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2008, f. & cert. ef. 10-15-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2002, f. 2-7-02, cert. ef. 3-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
