



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 85 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES GOVERNING THE ISSUANCE AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMOVAL-FILL AUTHORIZATIONS WITHIN WATERS OF OREGON INCLUDING WETLANDS 
 141-085-0725 
 Process for Establishing Mitigation Banks
 
 
 (1) Pre-prospectus Meeting with the Department. To initiate a mitigation bank, a prospective bank sponsor must request a meeting with the Department for initial review of the mitigation concept, site suitability, and content of the Prospectus. 

 (2) Department Review of Draft Documents, Generally. The process for establishing a mitigation bank involves the development of a Prospectus and Mitigation Bank Instrument (MBI) in consultation with an interagency review team (IRT). In an effort to supply the IRT with complete documents that meet the requirements of these rules, multiple drafts and completeness reviews may be required. 

 (3) Submittal of the Prospectus. After discussion of the mitigation concept with the Department, a mitigation bank sponsor must submit a Mitigation Bank Prospectus. A Mitigation Bank Prospectus must include: 

 (a) Site information including location, size, ownership, soil mapping, and recent air photo; 

 (b) The objectives of the proposed mitigation bank; 

 (c) How the mitigation bank will be established and operated, in general terms; 

 (d) The proposed service area; 

 (e) A market or other analysis that demonstrates the general need for the mitigation bank; 

 (f) A description of the technical feasibility of the proposed mitigation bank; 

 (g) The proposed ownership arrangements and long-term management strategy for the mitigation bank; 

 (h) How the mitigation bank addresses each of the principal objectives for CM listed in OAR 141-085-0680; and 

 (i) Names and addresses of all landowners within 500 feet of the bank. 

 (4) Prospectus Completeness Review. Within 30 calendar days of the Department's receipt of a Prospectus, the Department will conduct an initial review to determine if the Prospectus is complete and the information contained in the Prospectus adequately addresses the requirements. Following the Prospectus completeness review, the Department will inform the applicant of one of the following findings: 

 (a) The Prospectus is complete and will proceed to the public notice; or 

 (b) The Prospectus is incomplete. 

 (5) Incomplete Prospectus. If the Department determines that the Prospectus is incomplete, the Department will notify the sponsor in writing and list the missing or deficient information. The Department will take no action on the incomplete Prospectus until the required information is submitted. The sponsor must resubmit the entire amended Prospectus for reconsideration, unless instructed by the Department to do otherwise. Submission of a new or amended Prospectus starts a new 30 calendar day initial review period. 

 (6) Department May Decline to Participate. If a mitigation bank sponsor cannot demonstrate the need for the mitigation credits or the technical feasibility and ecological desirability of the bank, the Department may decline to participate in its development. 

 (7) Public Notice of Prospectus. Upon determining that a Prospectus is sufficient, the Department will issue a public notice entitled, "Intent To Create A Mitigation Bank." The Department will: 

 (a) Post the notice on the Department’s web site for 30 calendar days; 

 (b) Send the notice to city and county planning departments, affected state and federal natural resource and regulatory agencies, adjacent landowners, conservation organizations and other interested persons requesting such notices; 

 (c) Briefly describe the proposed mitigation bank and reference the Prospectus provided by the bank sponsor; and 

 (d) Solicit comments for 30 calendar days from the date of the public notice. 

 (8) Consideration of Comments Received During the Public Notice Period. All comments received will be provided to the bank sponsor and to the IRT. If comments are not received from an interested party within the 30-day comment period, the Department will assume the entity does not desire to provide comments. 

 (9) Establishment of an Interagency Review Team (IRT) and the Role of the IRT. The Department will invite participants to serve on an IRT within 30 calendar days of the date of the public notice. The Department will serve as chair (or co-chair) of the IRT. 

 (a) The Department will invite the following to nominate a representative for an IRT: 

 (A) State natural resource agencies, including Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, and Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development; 

 (B) Federal natural resource agencies, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Fisheries; 

 (C) Local regulatory and natural resource agencies, including the Soil and Water Conservation District, and the local Government Planner or equivalent. 

 (b) The Department may invite other members of the IRT based on particular interest in the project by regulatory and resource agencies, where such agencies have authorities and/or mandates directly affecting, or affected by, the project, and persons and groups with any specific expertise that may be required by the Department in development of the MBI. 

 (c) The IRT acts in an advisory capacity to the Department in the establishment and operation of mitigation banks. The IRT may: 

 (A) Review and provide input to the Department on the Prospectus and the comments received during the public notice for use in the development of the MBI; 

 (B) Review and provide input on the draft MBI; 

 (C) Review the performance of the bank to assist the Department in determining compliance with the MBI; and 

 (D) Provide input on adaptive management of the mitigation bank, as necessary, to achieve the ecological goals and objectives. 

 (10) Mitigation Bank Instrument (MBI). After consideration of the public comments and input from the IRT, the bank sponsor must develop a Draft Mitigation Bank Instrument (MBI) for submittal to the Department. If the sponsor intends that the MBI serve as the permit application, the sponsor must notify the Department of this intention at the time of submittal of the first draft MBI. If an MBI is used in place of a permit application, in addition to all requirements below, it must meet the requirements for fees, content, and review procedures as specified in OAR 141-085-0545 through 141-085-0565. The draft MBI must contain: 

 (a) All requirements for CM plans per OAR 141-085-0680 through 141-085-0710; and 

 (b) The applicant must also provide the following information: 

 (A) The proposed service area for the bank, including a map clearly showing recognizable geographic place names and watershed boundaries; 

 (B) Demonstration of the need for the bank as shown by past removal-fill activities, projected demographics for the proposed service area, statements of expected activities from the local planning agency, and like documentation; 

 (C) A description of the projected losses of waters of this state in the service area by HGM and Cowardin wetland classes or stream type as defined in OAR 141-085-0690; 

 (D) Proof of ownership including a title report and disclosure of any and all liens or easements on the bank site. If the sponsor does not own the land, the MBI must contain explicit legal and recordable permission granted by the landowner to perpetually dedicate the land upon which the proposed bank and any associated buffer is located; 

 (E) A description of the methods and results of the evaluation of ecological stressors, such as contaminants, present at the bank site that could compromise the wetland functions; 

 (F) Description of the location and plant community composition of reference site(s), unless an HGM reference data set is used; 

 (G) Description of the method(s) used to determine the number of credits to be created at the proposed bank, as well as those that will be used to account for and report credit and debit transactions; 

 (H) The proposed credit release schedule linked to achievement of specific performance standards; 

 (I) Detailed contingency plans describing how project deficiencies or performance failures will be corrected, including assignment of responsibilities for failures such as floods, vandalism, damage by pests and wildlife, invasion by weedy vegetation, etc.; 

 (J) Land use affidavit; 

 (K) A statement indicating when each of the conditions of the MBI will terminate, unless they are perpetual in nature; and 

 (L) A draft interagency bank instrument agreement following the current template document provided by the Department. Exceptions to the template must be approved in writing by the Department. 

 (11) Review of the Draft MBI. Within 30 calendar days of the Department's receipt of a draft MBI, the Department will conduct an initial review to determine if the MBI is complete and the information contained in the MBI adequately addresses the requirements. Following the review, the Department will inform the sponsor of its findings, either: 

 (a) The draft MBI is complete and will proceed to the IRT review process; or 

 (b) The draft MBI is incomplete. 

 (12) Incomplete Draft MBI. If the Department determines that the draft MBI is incomplete or deficient, the Department will notify the sponsor in writing and list the missing or deficient information. The Department will take no action on the incomplete draft MBI until the required information is submitted. The applicant must resubmit the entire draft MBI for reconsideration, unless instructed by the Department to do otherwise. Submission of a new or amended draft MBI starts a new 30 day review period. 

 (13) IRT Review of the Draft MBI. Upon notification that the draft MBI is complete, the sponsor must provide copies to the IRT for review. At the next available IRT meeting, the IRT will review and discuss the draft MBI and identify any issues that need to be resolved prior to finalizing the MBI. IRT meetings will be held as necessary to resolve issues identified by the co-chairs. 

 (14) Preparation of the Final MBI. When revisions have been completed and issues identified through the IRT process have been resolved, the sponsor must submit a final MBI to the Department and IRT members. 

 (15) Final Approval of the MBI. Within 30 calendar days of receipt of the final MBI, the Department will notify the sponsor and the IRT whether the agency will approve the MBI. 

 (16) Appeal of Department Decision. Appeals of the Department decision to affirm or deny mitigation bank approval will be administered according to OAR 141-085-0575. 

 (17) Construction Timing. At their own risk, a sponsor may begin construction of a bank before approval of the final MBI if the sponsor: 

 (a) Provides the Department with detailed documentation of the baseline conditions existing at the proposed site(s) of the bank; and 

 (b) Receives written consent from the Department before undertaking any construction. However, such consent from the Department does not exempt the sponsor from having to apply for, and obtain a removal-fill permit, if required. Written consent from the Department recognizes the sponsor's intent to create a bank but does not guarantee subsequent approval of the MBI by the Department. The Department assumes no liability for the sponsor's actions. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 196.825 & 196.600-196.692 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 196.600-196.692 & 196.800-196.990 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2026, amend filed 05/26/2026, effective 05/03/2027 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2019, amend filed 03/28/2019, effective 04/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2014, f. 8-14-14, cert. ef. 9-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2012, f. 9-28-12, cert. ef. 9-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2011, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 8-2009, f. 12-15-09, cert. ef. 1-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2009, f. 2-13-09, cert. ef. 3-1-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
