



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 62 ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARD FOR EXISTING DWELLINGS 
 330-062-0025 
 Advisory Energy Conservation Standards 
 
 (1) As used in OAR 330-062-0005 through 330-062-0045, weatherization measures for thermal envelopes are:  (a) For ceilings adjacent to unconditioned spaces or to the exterior:  (A) To reduce heat loss due to air leaks through ceiling to unheated spaces or to the exterior:  (i) Caulking or other sealing material should be added to all gaps around ceiling penetrations6, and weatherstripping should be added to attic access doors; and  (ii) Cover plate gaskets should be added to all electrical outlets in interior walls; and  (B) To prevent moisture condensation: Adequate ventilation should be provided above insulation; and  (C) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction:  (i) If no existing insulation: R-3813, insulation should be added with a vapor barrier of .5 perm or less on warm (ceiling) side of insulation; or  (ii) If existing insulation is R-11: R-3013, unfaced insulation should be added; or  (iii) If existing insulation is R-19 or more: Additional insulation probably is not economically feasible.  (b) For floors adjacent to unconditioned spaces5:  (A) To prevent moisture condensation:  (i) Adequate ventilation should be provided below insulation; and  (ii) A 6 mil polyethelene or equivalent ground cover overlapped at all seams should be added in a crawl space; and  (B) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction:  (i) If no existing insulation: R-1912 insulation should be added with a vapor barrier of 1 perm or less on the warm (floor) side of the insulation; or  (ii) If existing insulation is R-11: R-1112 insulation should be added.  (c) For concrete floor slabs on grade to prevent heat loss due to thermal conduction: If no existing insulation: R-41 insulation should be added around the perimeter of the slab to a depth of two feet below grade.  (d) For walls adjacent to exterior or unconditioned spaces:  (A) To prevent heat loss due to air leaks through walls adjacent to the exterior or to unheated spaces:  (i) Caulking or other sealing material should be added outside and inside to all gaps and holes at wall penetrations6; and  (ii) Cover plate gaskets should be added to all electrical outlets in walls6; and  (B) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction:  (i) If existing wall is standard studwall construction without insulation in wall cavity: R-1138 insulation should be injected into wall cavity; or  (ii) If existing wall is an uninsulated knee wall adjacent to accessible unconditioned rafter space: R-111 insulation should be added to the unheated side of the knee wall with a vapor barrier of 1 perm or less on the warm (wall) side of the insulation.  (e) For windows and sliding glass doors:  (A) To prevent heat loss due to air leaks through windows and frames:  (i) Caulking should be added outside and inside to gaps and joints around glazing, stationary sash, and frames6; and  (ii) Weatherstripping should be added around all operable sash6; and  (B) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction: If existing prime window is single-glassed, jalousie, or sashless sliding:  (i) Tight fitting storm windows should be added; or  (ii) Existing glazing should be replaced with double-pane insulating glass4 set in tight fitting sash.  (f) For exterior doors:  (A) To prevent heat loss due to air leaks around doors and door frames:  (i) Caulking should be added outside and inside around frame6; and  (ii) Weatherstripping and a draftproof threshold should be added around door; and  (B) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction: If existing prime door is uninsulated: A tight fitting storm door should be added to the existing prime door.  (2) As used in OAR 330-062-0005 through 330-062-0045, weatherization measures for HVAC systems are:  (a) For space heating and cooling system controls to reduce heat loss due to unnecessary operation of heating equipment during sleeping hours or periods when the house is unoccupied: A timed setback space heating and cooling control thermostat should be added9.  (b) For forced air heating ducts in unconditioned spaces:  (A) To prevent heat loss due to air leaks from ducts: Caulking or duct tape should be added to all accessible duct seams where air leaks can occur; and  (B) To reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction: R-111 insulating wrap should be added to all accessible ducting.  (c) For steam or hydronic heating system pipes in unconditioned spaces to reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction: R-41 insulating wrap should be added to all accessible steam or hydronic system piping.  (3) As used in OAR 330-062-0005 through 330-062-0045, weatherization measures for domestic water heating systems are:  (a) For a water heater tank in conditioned or unconditioned spaces to reduce heat loss due to thermal conduction: The water heater thermostat(s) should be set back to 120–140° F.6; and  (A) If existing water heater is electric:  (i) R-111 insulating wrap should be added to sides and top of tank leaving thermostat access panel(s), drain valve, pressure relief valve, and electrical service entry panel uncovered6; and  (ii) Styrofoam or equivalent rigid insulating pad should be added between the bottom of the tank and the floor if the tank rests directly on a concrete or masonry floor7; or  (B) If existing water heater is gas- or oil-fired: R-111 insulating wrap should be added to sides and top of tank leaving the flue and the area around it, air inlets, controls, drain valve, and pressure relief valve uncovered. On oil-fired water heaters also leave the bottom 1/3 of the tank and the high-limit switch uncovered6.  (b) For hot water pipes in conditioned and unconditioned spaces: R-31 insulating wrap should be added to all accessible water pipes (including cold water pipes in unconditioned spaces to prevent pipe damage due to freezing).  Footnotes:  1. Higher levels of insulation may be economically feasible. An energy audit may be useful in determining the advisability of using insulation levels greater than this recommended level.  2. Installation of retrofit insulation below existing insulation and insulation levels above R-19, may require special materials or installation techniques.  3. The addition of retrofit insulation to the ceiling or walls of mobile homes can be expensive and, therefore, is generally not feasible.  4. Triple-pane insulating glass may be economically feasible for your home but it is not yet widely available in Oregon.  5. Skirtings with ventilation should be added around the base of mobile homes to prevent excessive drafts.  6. For “how-to” suggestions please refer to low-Cost Energy Savers for Oregon Homes, available from the Oregon agency, 1-800-452-7813.  7. When adding an insulating pad between a water heater tank and the floor, be certain not to create leaks by overstressing rigid plumbing connections to the water heater.  8. Use of ureaformaldehyde foam for insulation in residential applications has been banned by the Federal Consumer Product Safety Commission.  9. Timed setback thermostats are not recommended for households that conscientiously practice manual thermostat setback. In such cases times setback thermostats may not pay for themselves and in fact may be less effective in saving energy.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 407, 469 & 470 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469.155 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 9-1982, f. & ef. 7-1-82 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
