



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 FOOD HANDLER TRAINING 
 333-175-0051 
 Content of Food Handler Training Programs 
 
 The concept of foodborne illness shall be introduced. The training shall address personal hygiene, contamination, and temperature control to reinforce the notion that the food handler's behaviors can prevent foodborne illness. The following learning objectives must be included in the food handler training program:  (1) Foodborne Illness.  (a) The food handler shall be able to describe foodborne illness as an illness resulting from eating contaminated food.  (b) The food handler shall know food contaminated with organisms (known to cause illness) does not look, smell or taste different from food not contaminated.  (c) The food handler shall know that symptoms vary and may include diarrhea, vomiting, fever, cramping and nausea.  (d) The food handler shall know that depending on the cause, symptoms may develop in a few minutes to several days. Symptoms may last several days and can result in death.  (e) The food handler shall know that foodborne illness is caused by organisms known to cause illness, or is caused by chemicals.  (2) The Role of the Food Handler in Foodborne Illness.  (a) The food handler shall be able to describe the five major mistakes that cause foodborne illness. The five major mistakes are:  (A) Inadequate handwashing;  (B) Employees working while ill;  (C) Cross contamination;  (D) Inadequate final cooking temperatures; and  (E) Inadequate temperature control (allowing foods to be in the danger zone).  (b) The food handler shall be able to describe the activities performed by food handlers that prevent foodborne illness from happening. The activities that prevent foodborne illness are:  (A) Proper handwashing every time hands may have become contaminated;  (B) Food handlers working only when healthy;  (C) Storing and handling of foods in a manner to prevent contamination;  (D) Cook each animal product to its required final cooking temperature; and  (E) Maintaining hot and cold temperatures (keeping foods out of the danger zone).  (3) The Role of Management.  (a) The food handler shall know that the manager sets the tone of what food safety activities occur or don't occur within the facility.  (b) The food handler shall know that the food service management is responsible for training and ensuring that food handlers practice the activities that prevent foodborne illness.  (4) Handwashing.  (a) The food handler shall be able to identify the following as the correct technique for handwashing:  (A) Use warm water and soap;  (B) Scrub hands thoroughly (approximately 15-20 seconds); and  (C) Dry hands with single-use towel, cloth towel roll or air dryer.  (b) The food handler shall be able to identify the following situations for when food handlers must wash their hands:  (A) After handling raw food;  (B) After smoking, eating, or drinking;  (C) After handling dirty dishes or garbage;  (D) After cleaning or using other toxic materials; and  (E) Before putting on gloves.  (c) The food handler shall be able to identify the following situations for when food handlers must wash their hands twice:  (A) After using the toilet and again when entering the work area (double handwash);  (B) After blowing nose, sneezing, coughing, or touching eyes, nose or mouth (double handwash);  (C) Before starting work (double handwash); and  (D) Anytime hands come into contact with bodily fluids including cuts and burns (double handwash).  (d) The food handler shall know that food service gloves are capable of spreading germs and do not substitute for proper handwashing.  (e) The food handler shall know that smoking, eating, and chewing tobacco is prohibited in food preparation and food and utensil storage areas.  (5) Employee Illness.  (a) The food handler shall know to call the person in charge at the food service facility when ill with diarrhea, vomiting, fever, jaundice or sore throat with fever.  (b) The food handler shall know to not work in the food service facility while ill with these symptoms.  (c) The food handler shall know after experiencing vomiting or diarrhea that he or she must not work in food service for 24 hours after symptoms have gone.  (d) The food handler shall know to not handle food with an infected cut or infected burn on the hands and wrists, unless an impermeable cover protects the lesion and a single-use glove is worn over the impermeable cover.  (6) Contamination and Cross Contamination.  (a) The food handler shall be able to define and identify physical contamination as foreign objects accidentally introduced into food. Food items may arrive already contaminated with dirt, and pebbles.  (b) The food handler shall be able to define and identify cross contamination as happening when microorganisms are transferred from one food or surface to another food.  (c) The food handler shall be able to identify methods to prevent cross contamination such as wash, rinse, and sanitize utensils, work surfaces and equipment between uses.  (d) The food handler shall be able to identify the following storage conditions that shall minimize the potential for cross contamination:  (A) Store raw meats below and completely separate from ready-to-eat food in refrigeration units;  (B) Store chemicals, cleansers and pesticides completely separate from food, utensils, and single service items; and  (C) Properly label all chemicals, cleansers and pesticides.  (7) Final Cooking Temperature. The food handler shall be able to identify that cooking to the recommended temperature will kill disease-causing germs.  (8) Temperature Control.  (a) The food handler shall be able to identify that potentially hazardous food will support bacterial growth when held at temperatures between 41 degrees Fahrenheit and 135 degrees Fahrenheit. The danger zone is any temperature between 41 degrees Fahrenheit and 135 degrees Fahrenheit.  (b) The food handler shall be able to identify that food being cooled or heated must move through the danger zone as rapidly as possible.  (c) The food handler shall be able to identify 135 degrees Fahrenheit as the proper temperature for hot holding potentially hazardous food.  (d) The food handler shall be able to identify 41 degrees Fahrenheit as the proper temperature for cold holding.  (e) The food handler shall know that you cannot make food safe to eat when food has been in the danger zone for four hours or more. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 624.570 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 624.570 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2012, f. 8-30-12, cert. ef. 9-4-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 14-2006, f. 6-27-06, cert. ef. 7-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 21-2004, f. & cert. ef. 6-18-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
