



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 RECYCLING AND WASTE REDUCTION 
 340-090-0380 
 Recycling Rate Calculation for Rigid Plastic Containers
 
 
 (1) The recycling rate for rigid plastic containers must be calculated as one of the following: 

 (a) Aggregate or specified resin type recycling rate for compliance purposes; 

 (b) Calendar year aggregate recycling rate; 

 (c) Specified-type rate; or 

 (d) Product-associated rate. 

 (2) Recycling rate for compliance purposes; 

 (a) Aggregate recycling rate for compliance purposes; 

 (A) DEQ may determine a recycling rate for rigid plastic containers, in the aggregate, for compliance purposes by December 31 of any year for which DEQ deems it necessary to determine such a rate. The aggregate recycling rate for compliance purposes must apply to the following calendar year and to any subsequent calendar year until DEQ again calculates an aggregate rigid plastic container recycling rate for compliance purposes; 

 (B) DEQ must base the aggregate recycling rate for compliance purposes in part on the most recent calendar year recycling rate and in part on other information which reflects or indicates the level of rigid plastic container recycling. When determining the recycling rate for compliance purposes for years prior to the calculation of the calendar year recycling rate, DEQ will use the best available recycling rate information in lieu of a calendar year recycling rate. 

 (b) Specified resin type recycling rate for compliance purposes: 

 (A) If the aggregate recycling rate in paragraph (2)(a)(A) of this rule is determined to be less than 25 percent, DEQ must determine a specified resin type recycling rate for compliance purposes for rigid plastic containers made from each of the following resin types: polyethylene terephthalate, high density polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, low density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, and all other plastic resins. The specified resin type recycling rate for compliance purposes must apply to the calendar year(s) for which the aggregate recycling rate in paragraph (2)(a)(A) of this rule was determined; 

 (B) DEQ must base the specified resin type recycling rate for compliance purposes in part on the most recent calendar year recycling rate and in part on other information which reflects or indicates the level of rigid plastic container recycling. When determining the recycling rate for compliance purposes for years prior to the calculation of the calendar year recycling rate, DEQ will use the best available recycling rate information in lieu of a calendar year recycling rate. 

 (3) Calendar year aggregate recycling rate: 

 (a) DEQ must calculate the calendar year aggregate recycling rate for rigid plastic containers and must include all rigid plastic containers including those exempted by OAR 340-090-0340(2), (4), (5), (6) or (7) from meeting compliance standards; 

 (b) DEQ must determine the calendar year recycling rate for rigid plastic containers in the aggregate as a percentage by dividing the aggregate numerator by the aggregate denominator. DEQ must collect or adjust, or both, the numbers in both the numerator and denominator of this calculation to represent the same calendar year; 

 (c) The elements of the formula to calculate the calendar year aggregate recycling rate for post-consumer rigid plastic containers in Oregon are: 

 (A) The aggregate numerator, expressed in tons: 

 (i) DEQ must calculate the numerator be calculated as the total weight of post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon; 

 (ii) In addition to DEQ’s census of material recovery rates, DEQ may use as the basis for determining the total weight of post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon an annual recycling census of all parties directly involved in brokering, processing, or recycling post-consumer rigid plastic containers from Oregon. DEQ may provide monthly forms for record keeping purposes only. Census respondents will be asked to calculate and submit: 

 (I) The total amount of post-consumer rigid plastic received from Oregon sources which is rigid plastic containers as defined in OAR 340-090-0330; 

 (II) The percentage of (I) that is lost due to removal of contaminated, non-plastic, and non-recyclable material; and 

 (III) Any other information DEQ may require to accurately determine the recycling tonnages. 

 (iii) DEQ must design and implement procedures to conduct the census relating to: 

 (I) Developing and maintaining a comprehensive list of handlers and reclaimers; 

 (II) Obtaining data from handlers and reclaimers, including the use of monthly and annual record keeping and reporting forms; 

 (III) Reconciling variances in reported data; 

 (IV) Maintaining quality control in data collection and analysis; and 

 (V) Adjusting data to produce estimates of the amount of plastic from post-consumer rigid plastic containers by controlling for contamination, including moisture, organic matter and other non-plastic materials. 

 (iv) DEQ must publish a report on the findings of the census, methodologies used and information regarding potential errors. 

 (B) The aggregate denominator, expressed in tons: 

 (i) DEQ must calculate the denominator as the sum of the total weight of post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon (the numerator) plus the total weight of post-consumer rigid plastic containers disposed of in Oregon. DEQ must calculate the total weight of post-consumer rigid plastic containers disposed of in Oregon by multiplying the estimated percent of municipal solid waste which is post-consumer rigid plastic containers times total tons of municipal solid waste disposed of in Oregon; 

 (ii) The total tons of municipal solid waste disposed of in Oregon is derived from information collected under the provisions of ORS 459A.010 (3)(d)) and 459A.050 (3) and (4); 

 (iii) DEQ must use a composition study of solid waste disposed of in Oregon as the basis for estimating the percent of disposed solid waste which is post-consumer rigid plastic containers. Adjustments to a previous composition study may be used as a substitute for a new composition study. 

 (d) DEQ will determine the calendar year aggregate rigid plastic container recycling rate, when DEQ determines it to be necessary, on a calendar year basis. When DEQ determines a calendar year aggregate rate, DEQ will publish it in a report that includes a discussion of potential errors associated with calculation of the total tons of municipal solid waste disposed of in Oregon, information on the recycling and disposal data collection and analysis methodologies and margin of error for the percent composition of rigid plastic containers. 

 (4) Specified-type recycling rate. DEQ must determine the recycling rate for a specified type of rigid plastic container as a percentage by dividing the specified type numerator by the specified type denominator. DEQ must collect or adjust, or both, the numbers in both the numerator and denominator of this calculation to represent the same calendar year: 

 (a) The elements of the formula to calculate the specified type recycling rate for rigid plastic containers in Oregon are: 

 (A) DEQ must calculate the specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic container numerator as the total of the specific type of post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon, expressed in tons; 

 (B) The specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic container denominator, expressed in tons: 

 (i) DEQ must calculate the denominator by one of the following methods: 

 (I) As the sum of the weight of the specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon plus the total weight of the specified type of rigid plastic containers disposed of in Oregon; or 

 (II) The total weight of the specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic containers sold in Oregon. 

 (ii) If DEQ uses the weight of the specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic containers disposed of to calculate the denominator, DEQ must use a composition study of solid waste disposed of in Oregon as the basis for determining the weight disposed of. 

 (b) Any person calculating the recycling rate of a specified type of post-consumer rigid plastic container may rely upon disposal or recycling data DEQ generates. Persons using other data to calculate a recycling rate must be able to document that such data were generated by a methodology acceptable to DEQ and are verifiable; 

 (c) Adjustment to data collected by the recycling census and composition study identified in paragraphs (3)(c)(A)(ii) and (3)(c)(B)(ii) and (iii) of this rule respectively must be made only by use of a methodology DEQ accepts; 

 (d) DEQ may use data collected on a national basis to determine the post-consumer rigid plastic container recycling rate in Oregon if it can be shown how these data are either typical of or can be adjusted to accurately represent conditions in Oregon. 

 (5) Product-associated recycling rate. DEQ must calculate the recycling rate for a product-associated rigid plastic container as a percentage by dividing the product-associated numerator by the product-associated denominator. DEQ must collect or adjust, or both, the numbers in both the numerator and denominator of this calculation to represent the same calendar year. The elements of the formula to calculate the product-associated recycling rate for rigid plastic containers in Oregon are: 

 (a) DEQ must calculate the numerator as the total weight of product-associated post-consumer rigid plastic containers recycled in Oregon, expressed in tons; 

 (b) The product-associated post-consumer rigid plastic container denominator, expressed in tons. The denominator must be the total weight of the product-associated rigid plastic containers sold in Oregon. 

 (6) A product manufacturer or container manufacturer must rely on DEQ’s calculation of the aggregate recycling rate for compliance purposes for post-consumer rigid plastic containers to comply with OAR 340-090-0350(1)(b)(A). In cases where DEQ calculates the recycling rate for specified types of or product-associated post-consumer rigid plastic containers, a product manufacturer or container manufacturer may rely on DEQ’s rate calculation when claiming that a container or containers comply with OAR 340-090-0350(1)(b)(B) or (1)(b)(C). 

 (7) In cases where a manufacturer calculates the recycling rate for specified types of or product-associated post-consumer rigid plastic containers, a product manufacturer may rely upon disposal or recycling data DEQ generates, where available. Manufacturers using other data to calculate a recycling rate must be able to document that such data were generated by a methodology DEQ accepts and are verifiable. 

 (8) Calculation of a recycling rate must include only those outputs from processing rigid plastic containers which are recycled into new products. When a processing technology results in a combination of outputs, some of which are recycled into new products and others of which are fuel products, or energy recovery, the recycling rate may not include any portion of the output which is a fuel product, is used to produce fuel products, or is otherwise used for energy recovery. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 459A.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 459A.650 - 459A.657 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 18-2023, amend filed 11/17/2023, effective 11/17/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 3-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-19-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 27-1998, f. & cert. ef. 11-13-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 9-1996, f. & cert. ef. 7-10-96 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 26-1994, f. & cert. ef. 11-2-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
