



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 2 GENERAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH RULES 
 437-002-0308 
 Portable Power Tools 
 
 (1) Electric tools. All portable electric hand tools shall:  (a) Be equipped with three-wire cord having the ground wire permanently connected to the tool frame and means for grounding the other end; or  (b) Be of the double insulated type and permanently labeled as “Double Insulated”;  (c) Extension cords shall be maintained in safe condition. Exposed metal sockets shall not be used;  (d) Tool operators shall:  (A) Use electric hand tools in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions;  (B) Prevent cords from becoming entangled, damaged, or cut by blades and bits;  (C) Avoid laying extension cord in water;  (D) Support an electrical tool and its power supply cord by a line, independent of the worker when the tool is used aloft.  (2) Gasoline-Driven Power Saws:  (a) Power saws shall not be used when employees are supported by a single climbing belt or rope;  (b) When working aloft using power saws, employees shall be supported by their climbing belt or rope and by a safety line to a crotch in the tree higher than the climber’s waistline. The safety line shall be secured to a separate point on the climber’s body belt and kept snug at all times;  (c) The manufacturer’s operating and safety instructions shall be followed unless modified by this rule;  (d) Power saws weighing more than 15 pounds (service weight) used in trees shall be supported by a separate line, except when used from an aerial-lift device;  (e) Where there are no lateral branches on which to crotch a separate line for power saws weighing over 15 pounds, a false crotch shall be used. A false crotch is one that can hold power-saw lines without slipping or coming untied;  (f) The operator shall have secure footing when starting the saw. Power saws weighing less than 15 pounds (service weight) may be drop started. Drop starting of saws over 15 pounds is permitted outside of the basket of an aerial lift only after ensuring that the area below the aerial lift is clear of personnel;  (g) The engine shall be started and operated only when all other workers are clear of the saw;  (h) The engine shall be stopped when power saws are being carried. The saw need not be stopped between cuts during consecutive felling, bucking, or limbing or cutting operations on reasonably level ground. The chain shall not be turning and the operator’s hand shall be off the throttle lever while moving between work locations. Single person saws shall be carried by the worker on his/her side with the guide bar of the saw pointed to the rear;  (i) The engine shall be stopped for all cleaning, refueling, adjustments, and repairs to the motor;  (j) The saw muffler shall be maintained in good condition;  (k) The saw shall be clean of sawdust and flammable material;  (l) Power chain saws shall be equipped with an automatic throttle control which will return the engine to idling speed upon release of the throttle. “Idling” is when the chain is not moving while the engine is running;  (m) Power saws shall meet all applicable requirements of ANSI B175.1-1985, Safety Requirements for Gasoline-Powered Chain Saws.  (3) Backpack power units:  (a) The manufacturer’s operating safety instructions shall be followed unless modified by these rules;  (b) No one except the operator shall be within ten feet of the cutting head of a brush saw;  (c) The power unit shall be equipped with a quick shutoff switch readily accessible to the operator;  (d) The operator shall observe the position of all personnel while the unit is running;  (e) The engine shall be stopped for all cleaning, refueling, adjustments, and repair to the saw or motor where practical, except where manufacturer’s procedures require otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 27-1990, f. 12-12-90, cert. ef. 2-1-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
