



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 270 OREGON POLST (PHYSICIAN ORDERS OR PORTABLE ORDERS FOR LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT) REGISTRY 
 333-270-0050 
 Access to the Registry
 
 
 (1) Registry staff, including its Emergency Communications Center staff, shall have access to POLST Registry information as needed to perform Registry functions. Registry staff and the Authority shall have access to Registry information as needed to conduct program evaluation. 

 (2) The following persons are authorized to contact the Registry’s Emergency Communication Center and obtain information about a patient currently being treated: 

 (a) A licensed health care provider working in or for: 

 (A) A hospital emergency department or acute care unit where a patient is admitted; 

 (B) A licensed ambulance service; or 

 (C) A non-transporting EMS agency. 

 (b) A staff person calling on behalf of a person described in subsection (a) of this section. 

 (3) The Registry shall release to a person described in section (1) of this rule, by phone: 

 (a) Whether the patient being treated has a POLST form recorded in the Registry, and if so; 

 (b) The POLST orders. 

 (4) The following persons, facilities, or programs are authorized to contact the Registry’s office to determine whether a patient being treated by that person, at that facility, or by that program has a POLST form recorded in the Registry, whether the form is current, and the POLST orders: 

 (a) A physician, nurse practitioner, physician associate or naturopathic physician who signed and submitted a POLST form to the Registry; 

 (b) Licensed or accredited: 

 (A) Long term care facilities; 

 (B) Hospice programs; or 

 (C) Hospitals; 

 (c) A patient’s health care professional; 

 (d) A staff person calling on behalf of a person described in subsection (a) or (c) of this section. 

 (5) A patient or a patient’s personal representative may contact the Registry to determine if that patient has a POLST form, whether the form is current, and the POLST order. 

 (a) The Registry shall request that a patient verify certain information in the Registry to ensure that the patient is who he or she purports to be, prior to the release of any Registry information. 

 (b) The Registry shall require a patient’s personal representative to provide proof of the personal representative’s identity and authority to act on behalf of the patient, and if necessary and legally required, provide an Authorization for the Release of Information that meets HIPAA requirements, prior to releasing information. 

 (6) The Registry may, in its discretion, require that a person described in section (2) or (4) of this rule provide proof of his or her identity, authority, licensing status, or need for the information prior to releasing any information from the Registry 

 (7) The Registry may provide the information requested under section (4) or (5) of this rule by facsimile, mail, or electronically, but may not release information over the phone. 

 (8) A person acting on information obtained from the Registry in good faith is immune from any civil or criminal liability that might otherwise be incurred or imposed with respect to acting on information obtained from the Registry. 

 (9) A person who requests information from the Registry who does not have the authority to obtain the information, or obtains information from the Registry for fraudulent reasons may be subject to a civil penalty of $500 per violation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 127.666 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 127.663-127.684 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 55-2024, minor correction filed 06/06/2024, effective 06/06/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 11-2017, amend filed 10/13/2017, effective 10/13/2017 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 12-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-3-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
