



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-2010 
 Tariff Content and Advice Letter 
 
 (1) Tariffs must be written using Commission-provided tariff forms and must be accompanied by an Advice Letter. Forms required under this rule are available at the Commission’s water web page at http://www.puc.state.or.us/Pages/water/forms_notices/applications.aspx.  (a) The initial complete schedule of tariffs is designated as PUC Oregon No. 1 in the upper left hand corner. Each successive complete replacement of the tariff schedules thereafter is designated with the next number in consecutive numerical order, i.e., PUC Oregon No. 2, etc.;  (b) Each tariff sheet must state the effective date on the bottom of the sheet. The effective date must be at least 30 days from the date the water utility electronically files the proposed tariffs, unless the water utility requests the changes go into effect with less than the required 30 day notice. To make this request, the tariff must be accompanied by a Less Than Statutory Notice (LSN) form; and  (c) Any supplemental information, not otherwise provided within the tariff sheet, must be designated by the previous sheet number plus a letter, for example, Original Sheet No. 3A, Original Sheet No. 3B, etc.  (2) An Advice Letter must include:  (a) The information required by OAR 860-036-1100(2);  (b) A statement plainly indicating the purpose of the filing;  (c) A statement indicating the revenue change the water utility is requesting and any other provisional requested changes;  (d) A statement indicating the number of customers affected by the proposed changes and the estimated effect upon rates, if any;  (e) The reasons the water utility is requesting the proposed changes; and  (f) The signature of a water utility officer or representative;  (g) If the tariff filing proposes to increase rates, the water utility must also provide the following for each rate schedule being increased:  (A) The total number of customers in each customer class affected;  (B) A comparison showing current rates and the proposed rates for each customer class affected;  (C) A comparison showing the total annual revenue derived under the current rates and the total annual revenue to be derived under the proposed rates for each customer class affected;  (D) The average monthly water use for each customer class affected; and  (E) A comparison showing the average monthly bill under the current rates and the proposed rates. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 & 757.205 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
