



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 50 LAND APPLICATION OF DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY BIOSOLIDS, BIOSOLIDS DERIVED PRODUCTS, AND DOMESTIC SEPTAGE 
 340-050-0031 
 Biosolids and Domestic Septage Management Plans 
 
 (1) Any person who intends to land apply biosolids or domestic septage shall submit a solids management plan to the Department for review and approval. Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the Department, solids management plans shall be submitted a minimum of 60 days before biosolids land application commences.  (2) Provisions established in Department approved biosolids or domestic septage management plans shall be considered NPDES, WPCF, or Solid Waste Disposal permit conditions.  (3) The biosolids or domestic septage management plan shall be kept current and remain on file with the permit or license. Plan modification requires written Department approval.  (4) Septage management plans must address the quantities of septages handled annually, types of septage processed, solid storage facilities, and solids land application or disposal facilities.  (5) Biosolids and domestic septage management plans must include:  (a) A description of the method(s) of solids removal;  (b) For wastewater and septage treatment facilities, a detailed description of the wastewater processing facility, including unit processes used in wastewater treatment; source design flow (gpd); and wastewater flow origin (e.g., percent domestic, industrial, commercial, and domestic septage);  (c) An indication of how primary, secondary, and tertiary solids or septages are removed, thickened, digested, and dewatered;  (d) A description of the quantities of raw and stabilized solids volumes generated annually;  (e) The means used to attain pathogen reduction, and data confirming pathogen reduction has been accomplished;  (f) The method(s) for determining degree of solids stability, and data supporting means of stabilization;  (g) The projected use and volume of solids storage basins (if appropriate) and a description of additional treatment which occurs during storage;  (h) A description of the means used to transport, temporarily store (if applicable), and apply biosolids or domestic septage at Department authorized land spreading sites;  (i) A description of biosolids monitoring and sampling program and biosolids analysis, including but not limited to nitrate-nitrogen, ammonia nitrogen, total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), phosphorus, potassium, total solids, volatile solids, arsenic, cadmium, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, zinc, and pH.  NOTE: Septage management plans do not require these analyses.  (j) The delineation of land application site selection criteria, crops and crop assimilative capacity (nitrogen), and site management practices, including but not limited to annual and long-term application rates, and testing and sampling;  (k) The identification of all Department authorized biosolids or domestic septage land application sites;  (l) A description of biosolids or domestic septage land application site monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures; and  (m) A description of remedial procedures that would be implemented in the event of a solids treatment process failure (e.g., digester breakdown or upset), solids spill at the wastewater treatment facility or solids generating source, or biosolids or domestic septage spill between the generating source and land application site.  (6) New Department authorized sites shall be made a part of the biosolids or domestic septage management plan.  (7) Biosolids Land Application plans shall, at a minimum, list:  (a) All known sites that will receive biosolids during the life of the permit;  (b) The geographic location of new sites which are not specifically listed at the time of application;  (c) Criteria which will be used in the selection of new sites; and  (d) Management practices which will be implemented where new sites are authorized by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 459.045, 468.020 & 468B.095 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 459.095 & 468B.045 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 18-1995, f. & cert. ef. 7-20-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
