



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Columbia River Gorge Commission 
 Chapter 350 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 16 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
 350-016-0004 
 Notice Requirements for Rule Adoption; Temporary Rule Adoption, or Amendment; Substantial Compliance Required 
 
 (1) The commission shall prepare a semiannual agenda for rules under development. The commission shall file the agenda with the Oregon Secretary of State and Washington Code Reviser for publication in the states’ registers not later than January 31st and July 31st of each year. Not later than three days after its publication in the states’ registers, the commission shall send a copy of the agenda to each person who has requested receipt of a copy of the agenda.  (2) When applicable under Washington law, the commission shall prepare a statement of inquiry on the form provided by the Washington Code Reviser, that shall be: filed with the Washington Code Reviser for publication in the state’s register at least thirty days before the date the agency files notice of proposed rule making, sent to any party that has requested receipt of the agency's statements of inquiry, and published on the Commission’s website or other similar means of electronic communication.  (3) Prior to the adoption, amendment or repeal of any rule, the commission shall give notice of its intended action:  (a) In the manner established by rule adopted by the commission, which provides a reasonable opportunity for interested persons to be notified of the agency's proposed action;  (b) In the Oregon bulletin and Washington register at least 21 days prior to the commencement of any commission action;  (c) At least 28 days before the effective date, to persons who have requested notice pursuant to subsection (9) of this section; and  (d) On its website or other similar means of electronic communication.  (e) Notice of an intended action under subsection (1)(a), (c) and (d) of this section may be given by regular mail or by electronic mail.  (4)(a) The notice required by subsection (3) of this section shall state the subject matter and purpose of the intended action in sufficient detail to inform a person that the person's interests may be affected, and the time, place and manner in which interested persons may present their views on the intended action.  (b) The commission shall include with the notice of intended action given under subsection (3) of this section:  (A) A citation of the statutory or other legal authority relied upon and bearing upon the promulgation of the rule;  (B) A statement of the need for the rule and a statement of how the rule is intended to meet the need;  (C) A list of the principal documents, reports or studies, if any, prepared by or relied upon by the commission in considering the need for and in preparing the rule, and a statement of the location at which those documents are available for public inspection. The list may be abbreviated if necessary, and if so abbreviated there shall be identified the location of a complete list;  (D) A statement of fiscal impact identifying state agencies, units of local government and the public which may be economically affected by the adoption, amendment or repeal of the rule and an estimate of that economic impact on state agencies, units of local government and the public. In considering the economic effect of the proposed action on the public, the agency shall utilize available information to project any significant economic effect of that action on businesses which shall include a cost of compliance effect on small businesses affected;  (E) A statement of the anticipated effects of the proposed rule;  (F) A statement whether the rule is necessary as a result of federal law or a court decision;  (G) An indication of the person or persons proposing the rule;  (H) The date on which the commission intends to adopt the rule; and  (I) The commission personnel responsible for implementation and enforcement of the rule, with office location and telephone number;  (J) If an advisory committee is not appointed, or an opportunity for interested parties to participate in the rule-making process prior to publication of the proposed rule has not been provided, an explanation as to why no advisory committee or participation by interested persons was used to assist the agency in drafting the rule.  (5) When the commission proposes to adopt, amend or repeal a rule, it shall give interested persons reasonable opportunity to submit data or views at a public hearing. The commission shall consider fully any written or oral submissions, including all submissions received by facsimile, telephonic communication, or electronic mail.  (6) Upon request of an interested person received within 15 days after commission notice pursuant to subsection (2) of this section, the commission shall postpone the date of its intended action no less than 21 nor more than 90 days in order to allow the requesting person an opportunity to submit data, views or arguments concerning the proposed action. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the commission from adopting a temporary rule pursuant to subsection (7) of this section.  (7) Notwithstanding subsections (1) to (6) of this section, the commission may adopt or amend a rule without prior notice or hearing or upon any abbreviated notice and hearing that it finds practicable, if the commission prepares:  (a) A statement of its findings that its failure to act promptly will result in serious prejudice to the public interest or the interests of the parties concerned and the specific reasons of its findings of prejudice;  (b) A citation of the statutory or other legal authority relied upon and bearing upon the promulgation of the rule;  (c) A statement of the need for the rule and a statement of how the rule is intended to meet the need; and  (d) A list of the principal documents, reports or studies, if any, prepared by or relied upon by the commission in considering the need for and in preparing the rule, and a statement of the location at which those documents are available for public inspections.  (8) A rule adopted or amended under subsection (7) of this section is temporary and may be effective for a period of not longer than 120 days. The adoption of a rule under this subsection does not preclude the subsequent adoption of an identical rule under subsections (1) to (6) of this section.  (9) Any person may request in writing that the commission mail to the person copies of its notice of intended action given pursuant to subsection (3) of this section. Upon receipt of any request the commission shall acknowledge the request, establish a mailing list and maintain a record of all mailings made pursuant to the request. The commission may establish procedures for establishing and maintaining the mailing lists current and, by rule, establish fees necessary to defray the costs of mailings and maintenance of the lists.  (10) This section does not apply to public contracts and purchasing.  (11) A rule is not valid unless adopted in substantial compliance with the provisions of this section in effect on the date that the notice required under subsection 3 of this section is delivered to the Oregon Secretary of State and the Washington Code Reviser for the purpose of publication.  (12) Unless otherwise provided by statute, the adoption, amendment or repeal of a rule by an agency need not be based upon or supported by an evidentiary record.  (13) The commission may correct its failure to substantially comply with the requirements of subsections (4) and (7) of this section in adoption of a rule by an amended filing, so long as the noncompliance did not substantially prejudice the interests of persons to be affected by the rule. However, this subsection does not authorize correction of a failure to comply with subsection (3)(b)(D) of this section requiring inclusion of a fiscal impact statement with the notice required by subsection (1) of this section.  (14) When the commission establishes a deadline for comment on a proposed rule under the provisions of subsection (4) of this section, the commission may not extend that deadline for another agency or person unless the extension applies equally to all interested agencies and persons. An agency shall not consider any submission made by another agency after the final deadline has passed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.150 & RCW 43.97 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.150, RCW 43.97 & 16 U.S.C. 544 et seq. 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2006, f. 3-22-06, cert. ef. 5-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-2002, f. 10-16-02 cert. ef. 12-2-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 2-1990, f. & cert. ef. 5-21-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-1990, f. & cert. ef. 1-16-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 3-1989(Temp), f. 10-4-89, cert. ef. 10-4-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-1989, f. 3-2-89, cert. ef. 3-7-89 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 Reverted to CRGC 2-1987, f. 12-7-87, ef. 12-8-87 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 3-1988(Temp), f. 11-17-88, cert. ef. 11-17-88 thru 2-13-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 2-1987, f. 12-7-87, ef. 12-8-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CRGC 1-1987(Temp), f. & ef. 9-10-87 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
