



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 10 HEALTH PROMOTION AND CHRONIC DISEASE PREVENTION 
 333-010-0330 
 Tobacco Prevention and Education Program: Local Coalitions and Community-Based Programs 
 
 The goal of the Oregon Public Health Division under this section is to fulfill the purpose and intent of Chapter 2 of Oregon Laws of 1997, approved by the people as Ballot Measure 44, at the November 5, 1996 General Election, by having a tobacco prevention and education program serving every county.  (1) Eligibility for Grant Awards:  (a) The Oregon Public Health Division shall accept for funding a maximum of one proposal per county or consortium of counties;  (b) For the purposes of this program the local health department shall be considered the Local Lead Agency in each county for submitting a proposal, except as provided under (c) or (d) below;  (c) Any local health department that elects not to submit a proposal under this section may form a consortium with one or more health department(s) and jointly submit one proposal;  (d) Any local health department electing not to submit a proposal by itself or in consortium with another county(s) shall designate an appropriate local governmental or not-for-profit health-related organization and shall send a letter to the Director identifying such organizations as the Local Lead Agency for that county;  (e) Any Local Lead Agency designated under subsection (d) above shall be eligible to submit a proposal for that county directly to the Oregon Public Health Division;  (f) A local health department may revoke the designated Local Lead Agency under subsection (d) upon mutual agreement of both the local health department and the Local Lead Agency. The health department and the Local Lead Agency shall jointly notify the Director of the agreement. If the local health department and the Local Lead Agency do not reach an agreement on the revocation of the designation under subsection (d) above the Director may determine whether the revocation is in the best interest of the public health.  (2) Development of the Request for Proposals (RFP) Document. The RFP document for local coalitions and community-based programs shall be developed by the Director in consultation with representatives from appropriate groups, including but not limited to the Governor’s Tobacco Reduction Advisory Committee, the Tobacco-Free Coalition of Oregon, the Conference of Local Health Officials, the Oregon Department of Education, the Oregon Office on Alcohol and Drug Abuse Programs, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  (3) Grant Application Process. Proposals shall be submitted in a format and within a time frame prescribed by the Director, and shall include, but are not limited to:  (a) A list of local coalition members and a description of their roles;  (b) Specific local program goals, objectives, activities and evaluation plans; and  (c) A detailed budget for use of grant funds.  (4) Review of Proposals:  (a) Proposals shall be evaluated by a review committee appointed by the Director. The Director has the authority to include on the review committee persons not employed by the Oregon Public Health Division, including experts in the field of tobacco use reduction;  (b) The Director may reject any application not in compliance with the RFP’s instructions;  (c) Proposals shall be evaluated according to the criteria described in the RFP;  (d) The Director may request additional information from an applicant prior to and during the review of a proposal.  (5) Awarding of Funds:  (a) Funds shall be awarded based on the quality of proposals in addressing the RFP requirements;  (b) The Director may negotiate modifications of the applicant’s proposal on the basis of availability of funds, and merit of application. In these cases funds shall be awarded only after such modifications have been agreed upon by both the Director and the Local Lead Agency;  (c) The Director shall determine final funding levels. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 431.834 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 431.831 - 431.836 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 11-1997, f. & cert. ef. 9-12-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
