



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Behavioral Health Services - Chapter 309 
 
 
 
 
 Division 33 CIVIL COMMITMENT PROCEEDINGS 
 309-033-0727 
 Structural and Physical Requirements
 
 
 (1) The hospital or other facility which provides care, custody, and treatment for persons with mental illness or persons alleged to have a mental illness have available at least one room which meets the following requirements: 

 (a) The room must be of adequate size, not isolated from regular staff of the facility, and provided with an adequate locking device on all doors and windows; 

 (b) The door must open outward and contain a port of shatterproof glass or plastic through which the entire room may be viewed from outside and before entering; 

 (c) The room shall contain no protruding objects, such as doorknobs, towel or clothes bars, hooks, or racks. There shall be no exposed curtains, drapes, rods, or furniture, except a portable bed which can be removed, if necessary. In case of the removal of the bed frame, a fireproof mattress shall be placed on the floor. Beds which are securely fastened to the floor must have no protrusions such as bed posts or sharp corners; 

 (d) Any windows shall be made of unbreakable or shatterproof glass, or plastic. Non-shatterproof glass shall be protected by adequate detention type screening, such as Chamberlain Detention Screen; 

 (e) There shall be no exposed pipes or electrical wiring in the room. Electric outlets shall be permanently capped or covered with a metal shield which opens with a key. Ceiling and wall lights shall be recessed and covered with safety-type glass or unbreakable plastic. Any cover, cap or shield shall be secured by tamper-proof screws or other means approved by the Division; 

 (f) The room shall contain no combustible material, such as matches, lighters, cigarettes, etc. Smoking shall not be allowed in the room, except under direct supervision of staff; 

 (g) The room shall meet fire, safety, and health standards. If sprinklers are installed, they shall be recessed and covered with a fine mesh metal screening. If pop-down type, sprinklers must have breakaway strength of under 80 pounds. In lieu of sprinklers, a combined smoke and heat detector shall be used. Documentation of the breakaway strength of sprinklers must be on file at the facility. 

 (2) Bathroom requirements include: 

 (a) Adequate toilet and sanitary facilities; 

 (b) The bathroom shall contain no shower rods, shower curtains, window curtain rods, curtains, or towel rods, unless used only with direct staff supervision; 

 (c) The bathroom shall not lock from the inside and, if connected to the room, shall be locked when not in use. 

 (3) No sharp objects, such as razor blades, scissors, knives, nail files, etc., shall be available to the patient, except under direct staff supervision. No poisons or cleaning materials shall be kept in the room or in the bathroom available for the room. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 426.236, 426.385 & 430.041 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 426.005 - 426.395 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BHS 9-2023, amend filed 04/04/2023, effective 04/07/2023 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 MHS 13-2014, f. & cert. ef. 9-29-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
