



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 314 INCOME TAXATION GENERALLY  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 150-314-0337 
 Apportionable and Nonapportionable Income; Application of Definitions
 
 
 (1) This rule adopts a model regulation recommended by the Multistate Tax Commission to promote uniform treatment of this item by the states. This rule is applicable to tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and applies the principles provided in OAR 150-314-0335 for determining whether particular income is apportionable or nonapportionable income. (The examples used throughout this rule are illustrative only and are limited to the facts they contain.) 

 (2) Rents from real and tangible personal property. Rental income from real and tangible property is apportionable income if the property with respect to which the rental income was received is or was used in the taxpayer’s trade or business and therefore is includable in the property factor under OAR 150-314-0390. 

 Example 1: The taxpayer operates a multistate car rental business. The income from car rentals is apportionable income. 

 Example 2: The taxpayer is engaged in the heavy construction business in which it uses equipment such as cranes, tractors, and earth-moving vehicles. The taxpayer makes short-term leases of the equipment when particular pieces of equipment are not needed on any particular project. The rental income is apportionable income. 

 Example 3: The taxpayer operates a multistate chain of men’s clothing stores. The taxpayer purchases a five-story office building for use in connection with its trade or business. It uses the street floor as one of its retail stores and the second and third floors for its general corporate headquarters. The remaining two floors are held for future use in the trade or business and are leased to tenants on a short-term basis in the meantime. The rental income is apportionable income. 

 Example 4: The taxpayer operates a multistate chain of grocery stores. It purchases as an investment an office building in another state with surplus funds and leases the entire building to others. The net rental income is not apportionable income of the grocery store trade or business. Therefore, the net rental income is nonapportionable income. 

 Example 5: The taxpayer operates a multistate chain of men’s clothing stores. The taxpayer invests in a 20-story office building and uses the street floor as one of its retail stores and the second floor for its general corporate headquarters. The remaining 18 floors are leased to others. The rental of the 18 floors is not done in furtherance of but rather is separate from the operation of the taxpayer’s trade or business. The net rental income is not apportionable income of the clothing store trade or business. Therefore, the net rental income is nonapportionable income. 

 Example 6: The taxpayer constructed a plant for use in its multistate manufacturing business and 20 years later the plant was closed and put up for sale. The plant was rented for a temporary period from the time it was closed by the taxpayer until it was sold 18 months later. The rental income is apportionable income and the gain on the sale of the plant is apportionable income. 

 (3) Gains or losses from sales of assets. Gain or loss from the sale, exchange or other disposition of real property or of tangible or intangible personal property constitutes apportionable income if the property while owned by the taxpayer was related to the operation of the taxpayer’s trade or business, or was otherwise properly included in the property factor of the taxpayer's trade or business. 

 Example 7: In conducting its multistate manufacturing business, the taxpayer systematically replaces automobiles, machines, and other equipment used in the trade or business. The gains or losses resulting from those sales constitute apportionable income. 

 Example 8: The taxpayer constructed a plant for use in its multistate manufacturing business and 20 years later sold the property at a gain while it was in operation by the taxpayer. The gain is apportionable income. 

 Example 9: Same as Example 8 except that the plant was closed and put up for sale but was not in fact sold until a buyer was found 18 months later. The gain is apportionable income. 

 Example 10: Same as Example 8 except that the plant was rented while being held for sale. The rental income is apportionable income and the gain on the sale of the plant is apportionable income. 

 (4) Interest. Interest income is apportionable income where the intangible with respect to which the interest was received arose out of or was created in the regular course of the taxpayer’s trade or business, or the purpose of acquiring and holding the intangible is related to the operation of the taxpayer's trade or business. 

 Example 11: The taxpayer operates a multistate chain of department stores, selling for cash and on credit. Service charges, interest, or time-price differentials and the like are received with respect to installment sales and revolving charge accounts. These amounts are apportionable income. 

 Example 12: The taxpayer conducts a multistate manufacturing business. During the year the taxpayer receives a federal income tax refund pertaining to the taxpayer’s trade or business and collects a judgment against a debtor of the business. Both the tax refund and the judgment bear interest. The interest income is apportionable income. 

 Example 13: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate manufacturing and wholesaling business. In connection with that business, the taxpayer maintains special accounts to cover such items as worker’s compensation claims, rain and storm damage, machinery replacement, etc. The funds in those accounts earned interest. Similarly, the taxpayer temporarily invests funds intended for payment of federal, state and local tax obligations pertaining to the taxpayer’s trade or business. The interest income is apportionable income. 

 Example 14: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate money order and traveler’s check business. In addition to the fees received in connection with the sale of the money orders and traveler’s checks, the taxpayer earns interest income by the investment of the funds pending their redemption. The interest income is apportionable income. 

 Example 15: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate manufacturing and selling business. The taxpayer usually has working capital and extra cash totaling $200,000 which it regularly invests in short-term interest bearing securities. The interest income is apportionable income. 

 Example 16: In January the taxpayer sold all the stock of a subsidiary for $20,000,000. The funds are placed in an interest-bearing account pending a decision by management as to how the funds are to be utilized. The funds are not pledged for use in the business. The interest income for the entire period between the receipt of the funds and their subsequent utilization or distribution to shareholders is non-apportionable income. 

 (5) Dividends. Dividends are apportionable income where the stock with respect to which the dividends was received arose out of or was acquired in the regular course of the taxpayer’s trade or business or where the acquiring and holding the stock is or was related to the operation of the taxpayer's trade or business, or contributes to the production of apportionable income of the trade or business. 

 Example 17: The taxpayer operates a multistate chain of stock brokerage houses. During the year the taxpayer receives dividends on stock it owns. The dividends are apportionable income. 

 Example 18: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate manufacturing and wholesaling business. In connection with that business, the taxpayer maintains special accounts to cover such items as worker’s compensation claims, etc. A portion of the funds in those accounts is invested in interest-bearing bonds. The remainder is invested in various common stocks listed on national stock exchanges. Both the interest income and any dividends are apportionable income. 

 Example 19: The taxpayer and several unrelated corporations own all of the stock of a corporation whose business consists solely of acquiring and processing materials for delivery to the corporate owners. The taxpayer acquired the stock in order to obtain a supply source of materials used in its manufacturing trade or business. The dividends are apportionable income. 

 Example 20: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate heavy construction business. Much of its construction work is performed for agencies of the federal government and various state governments. Under state and federal laws applicable to contracts for these agencies, a contractor must have adequate bonding capacity, as measured by the ratio of its current assets (cash and marketable securities) to current liabilities. In order to maintain an adequate bonding capacity the taxpayer holds various stocks and interest-bearing securities. Both the interest income and any dividends received are apportionable income. 

 Example 21: The taxpayer receives dividends from the stock of its subsidiary or affiliate which acts as the marketing agency for products manufactured by the taxpayer. The dividends are apportionable income. 

 Example 22: The taxpayer is engaged in a multistate glass manufacturing business. It also holds a portfolio of stock and interest-bearing securities, the acquisition and holding of which are unrelated to the manufacturing business. The dividends and interest income received are nonapportionable income. 

 (6) Patent and copyright royalties. Patent and copyright royalties are apportionable income where the patent or copyright with respect to which the royalties were received arose out of or was created in the regular course of the taxpayer’s trade or business or where the acquiring and holding the patent or copyright is or was related to the operation of the taxpayer's trade or business, or contributes to the production of apportionable income of the trade or business. 

 Example 23: The taxpayer is engaged in the multistate business of manufacturing and selling industrial chemicals. In connection with that business, the taxpayer obtained patents on certain of its products. The taxpayer licensed the production of the chemicals in foreign countries, in return for which the taxpayer receives royalties. The royalties received by the taxpayer are apportionable income. 

 Example 24: The taxpayer is engaged in the music publishing trade or business and holds copyrights on numerous songs. The taxpayer acquires the assets of a smaller publishing company, including music copyrights. These acquired copyrights are thereafter used by the taxpayer in its trade or business. Any royalties received on these copyrights are apportionable income. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 314.610 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REV 68-2017, amend filed 12/22/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-314.610(1)-(B), REV 30-2016, f. 8-12-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 REV 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 12-31-03 
8-73 
12-70
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
