



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 DEPOSIT OF MOTOR VEHICLE BODIES AND ACCESSORIES INTO THE WATERS OF THE STATE 
 340-046-0020 
 Requirements for Deposit
 
 
 Permits and approval: 

 (1) Prior to any deposit of motor vehicle bodies and parts thereof into the waters of the state or in a location where they may be likely to escape or be carried into said waters by any means, a person must first make application as prescribed in section (2) of this rule to the Department and secure a written permit from said agency. 

 (2) Application. The application shall be in a written, legible form and shall include the following minimum information: 

 (a) The name, address, and organization, if any, of the applicant; 

 (b) The purpose and necessity for the deposit and whether it is for a long-term or short-term project; 

 (c) The number and amount of motor vehicle bodies and parts intended to be deposited; 

 (d) The location and name of the stream or other public waters or adjacent land area involved; 

 (e) The time schedule, method, and program contemplated by the applicant for deposit of the motor vehicle bodies and parts deposited. 

 (3) Engineering plans. The application shall have attached, for examination and approval by the Department, full and complete engineering plans and specifications prepared by a registered professional engineer, describing in detail the method and manner of depositing and securing of motor vehicle bodies and parts thereof: 

 (a) The engineering plans and specifications and any necessary revisions thereof, if approved, will be considered by the Department as an acceptable means and method of deposit, provided all other applicable requirements are met; 

 (b) The Department may also seek comments from other adjacent or affected property owners and any applicable city, county, state, or federal agency relative to the proposed locations of the deposit and engineering plan. 

 (4) The Department may set additional specific time limitations and conditions for the deposit and for future removal thereof, as may be necessary. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468B 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468B.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 49-2018, minor correction filed 04/03/2018, effective 04/03/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 7, f. 3-31-70, ef. 4-25-70 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
