



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 106 X-RAYS IN THE HEALING ARTS 
 333-106-0368 
 Computed Tomography (CT) X-ray Systems: Qualified CT Medical Physicist
 
 
 In order to perform a computed tomography (CT) survey or provide consultative services on a CT unit, a person must be approved by the Oregon Health Authority (Authority), under the provisions of OAR 333-101-0020, as a provider of radiation services in CT. In addition, the qualified CT medical physicist shall meet the requirements outlined below: 

 (1) Initial qualifications. Before beginning to provide consultation to a CT facility, a medical physicist shall meet one of the following: 

 (a) Be certified in diagnostic radiological physics or radiological physics by the American Board of Radiology, or in diagnostic imaging physics by the American Board of Medical Physics, or in diagnostic radiology physics by the Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine; or 

 (b) Have a graduate degree in medical physics, radiological physics, physics, or other relevant physical science or engineering discipline from an accredited institution and have formal coursework in the biological sciences with at least one course in biology or radiation biology and one course in anatomy, physiology, or similar topics related to the practice of medical physics, and have 200 hours of documented experience in a clinical CT environment within two years. An accredited institution is a college or university accredited by a regional accrediting organization that has been recognized either by the U.S. Department of Education (USDE) or by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) or both. Individuals with non-U.S. degrees shall provide documentation that their foreign degrees are equivalent to those granted from an approved institution in the U.S. and that the granting institution is equivalent to a regionally accredited institution in the USA; or 

 (c) CT medical physicists who, prior to August 1, 2014, have been actively working in the area of CT in the State of Oregon and are specifically approved by the Authority to provide CT medical physics services in Oregon, are exempt from the requirements in subsections (a) and (b) this section. 

 (2) Continuing experience. After the second anniversary of the date when the requirements of section (1) of this rule were completed, the medical physicist shall have evaluated at least two CT scanners in the prior 24-month period. 

 (3) Continuing education. After the third anniversary of the date when the requirements of section (1) of this rule were completed, the CT medical physicist shall have earned at least 15 continuing medical education units; at least half shall be category 1, in the prior 36-month period. The continuing education shall include credits pertinent to CT. 

 (4) Re-establishing qualifications. A CT medical physicist who fails to maintain the required continuing experience or continuing education requirements shall reestablish his or her qualifications before resuming the independent evaluation of CT scanners and facilities, as follows: 

 (a) A CT medical physicist who fails to meet the continuing experience requirements of section (2) of this rule shall evaluate two CT scanners under the supervision of a medical physicist, to meet the requirements of section (2) of this rule. 

 (b) A CT medical physicist who fails to meet the continuing education requirements of section (3) of this rule shall obtain a sufficient number of additional continuing education credits to meet the requirements of section (3) of this rule. 

 (5) Documentation of continuing education and continuing experience shall be kept on file and made available to an inspector upon request. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 28-2026, amend filed 07/02/2026, effective 07/02/2026 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 24-2014, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
