



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 450 COMMUNITY COLLEGES 
 166-450-0020 
 Contracts and Agreements 
 
 The General Schedule is applicable to the contracts and agreements of community colleges. Retention periods apply to the official copy of all public records, regardless of medium or physical format, created or stored by the above specified agencies. Please note the exceptions to this General Schedule listed in OAR 166-030-0027 before disposing of records.  (1) Bid and Award Records: Records document the procurement process including advertising, evaluation and award of bids to vendors or agencies and provide evidence of accepted and rejected bids for services and products. Records may include but are not limited to bid and quote lists; notices of bid opening and award; comparison summaries; spreadsheets; tabulation worksheets; bid advertising records such as requests for information (RFI’s) and request for proposals (RFP’s); tally sheets; bid specifications; requests for qualifications (RFQs); invitations to bid (ITBs); records of accepted and rejected bids; selection of agents of record records; and correspondence. SEE ALSO: Purchasing Records. (Minimum retention: Accepted agency improvement bids: 10 years after substantial completion; Other accepted bids: six years after bid awarded or canceled; Rejected bids or bid exemptions: two years after bid awarded or canceled).  (2) Contracts and Agreements: Records document the negotiation, execution, completion, and termination of legal agreements, and the purchase and sale of land and buildings between the college and other parties. Records include the official contract or agreement; amendments; exhibits; addenda; facilities scheduling; lease agreements; title insurance policies and forms; legal records; contract review records; instructional services agreements; prevailing wage reports and other documentation furnished by the Bureau of Labor and Industry; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Contracts or agreements documenting building construction, alterations, or repair: 10 years after substantial completion; Other contracts and agreements: six years after expiration).  (3) Instructional Agreements and Records: Records document the participation of the college in a variety of educational courses and programs. Records may document the contract or agreements as well as the administrative activities and student records concerned with these programs. Types of agreements may include Articulation Agreements with high schools (2+2, Step Ahead, Alternative Education, GED/ELS, and High School Services), other community colleges, and four year institutions; Instructional Services Agreements which document agreements between college and other entities, including the state government, for educational services; and Short-Term Contracted Training Records which document non-degree, non-credit, short-term classes that enable persons in business, government, industry, or the general public to learn new skills or update existing skills. Records may include but are not limited to contracts or agreements; registration records; class lists; payment records; flyers; course and credit records; transcripts; working files; reports; correspondence; and related documentation. (Minimum retention: Working papers: Until contract finalized; Other records: six years after expiration).  (4) Personal Service Contracts: Records document contractual agreements made by the college with individuals or firms for service rendered. Records may include but are not limited to contracts; addenda; exhibits; justification statements; proposals; contractor selection statements; expense records and correspondence. (Minimum retention: six years after expiration).  (5) Software Licensing Agreements: Records document computer software licensing agreements. Records may include but are not limited to licensing agreements for word processing, database managing, and other software programs used in offices and classrooms. The contracts may include but are not limited to name of the software; ISBN number; name of the publisher; licensee name, title, department, and office location; institution name and address; authorized signature; and related documentation. Records may also include statistical reports on the number of students using the licensed programs and the number of hours in use. [SEE: Software Management Records in Information Management Records section.] (Minimum retention: six years after expiration).  (6) Title and Deed Records: Records document the real property acquired or sold by the college. The records may include but are not limited to purchase agreements; title abstracts; easement details; public hearing notices and minutes; county recorder’s plat descriptions; memoranda of understanding; earnest money receipts; sales agreements; property deeds; working papers; and correspondence. (Minimum retention: Permanent). 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-1998, f. 8-4-98, cert. ef. 8-5-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
