



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 STANDARDS TO BE USED WHEN ALLOCATING FEDERAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION MONIES 
 736-055-0005 
 Grant Application and Award Procedure 
 
 (1) Acquisition and Development Projects:  (a) The State Historic Preservation Office will accept written requests for federal grant assistance for acquisition or development purposes from the owners (or prospective owners for acquisition projects) of properties which are listed in the National Register of Historic Places, or which are in the process of nomination to the National Register. Written guidelines for preparing requests for acquisition or development grant funds are available from the office on request. The office will keep requests for grant assistance on file for at least one year from the date of receipt.  (b) Grant awards will be made only to owners of properties that are actually listed in the National Register. If proponents other than owners of record (except for acquisition projects) wish to request federal grant assistance, the office must be provided with a letter from the owner of record authorizing the proponent to request grant money as the owner’s representative. The letter must also stipulate who may actually receive this money.  (c) When selections for project funding have been made, the office will make a written offer of grant to the property owner or owner’s representative. A grant offer may be for all or part of the amount requested in the letter of request. To insure that grant funds are spent in timely fashion, the grant offer may stipulate dates by which certain information identified in the grant offer must be submitted to the office. If these deadlines are not met, grant offers may be cancelled by the office without notice. Proponents should remember that a grant offer is not the award of a grant.  (d) When the office has received the necessary information from the project proponent, the office will make a formal grant application to the federal government in accord with federal regulations and procedures current at the time. If approved by the federal government, the office will then notify the proponent that a grant award has been made. Proponents should remember that the state government selects projects for grant applications, but the federal government makes decisions to grant or deny funds.  (2) Survey and Planning Projects: The State Historic Preservation Office will accept written requests for Survey and Planning funds from state agencies, local governments, public and private institutions, and private individuals. Written guidelines to preparing requests for survey funds are available from the office upon request. The procedure and guidelines for applying for planning funds is the same as that for Acquisition and Development projects explained above. The award procedure for Survey and Planning funds is also the same, except that unlike Acquisition and Development grants, the award of Survey and Planning grants is made by the state government. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 358.612 & 358.617 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR 3-1981, f. & ef. 2-26-81 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
