



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0155 
 Superficial Electronic Brachytherapy: Operating Procedures 
 
 (1) Only individuals approved by the authorized user, Radiation Safety Officer, or qualified medical physicist shall be present in the treatment room during treatment. 

 (2) The superficial electronic brachytherapy device shall be inoperable. 

 (3) Prior to administration of radiation treatments, the patient’s identity shall be verified by at least two methods. 

 (4) If a patient must be held in position during treatment, mechanical supporting or restraining devices shall be used. 

 (5) Written procedures shall be developed, implemented, and maintained for responding to an abnormal situation. These procedures shall include: 

 (a) Instructions for responding to equipment failures and the names of the individuals responsible for implementing corrective actions; and 

 (b) The names and telephone numbers of the authorized user, the qualified medical physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted if the device or console operates abnormally. 

 (6) A copy of the current operating and emergency procedures shall be physically located at the superficial brachytherapy device control console. For control consoles that are integral to the superficial electronic brachytherapy device, the required procedures shall be kept where the operator is located during superficial electronic brachytherapy device operation. 

 (7) Instructions shall be posted at the superficial electronic brachytherapy device control console to inform the operator of the names and telephone numbers of the authorized users, the qualified medical physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted if the device or console operates abnormally. 

 (8) The authorized user shall be notified immediately if the patient receiving superficial brachytherapy treatment has a medical emergency, suffers injury or dies. A Radiation Safety Officer or designee shall be notified by the device operator or authorized user as soon as possible if there is any radiation related injury to the patient. A Radiation Safety Officer or a qualified medical physicist shall inform the manufacturer and the Authority of the event. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 72-2020, adopt filed 10/09/2020, effective 10/09/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
