



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Energy 
 Chapter 330 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT GRANTS 
 330-200-0030 
 Grant Application 
 
 (1) Any person may apply for a grant by submitting a complete grant application. The application must meet requirements provided by applicable statutes, these rules and the current Opportunity Announcement.  (a) The application must be in the form specified in the Opportunity Announcement and these rules.  (b) An applicant must submit a complete application during the opportunity period. For the purposes of this rule, the department considers an application “submitted” when the department receives the application. The department will not process applications received outside of an opportunity period.  (2) The application must be accompanied by the application fee specified in these rules. The department will not process applications received without fee payment.  (3) The department will not accept amendments to applications during the opportunity period. An applicant may withdraw an application and submit a replacement application during the opportunity period. The department will not process fees for applications withdrawn before the end of the opportunity period.  (4) The application must include the following information, unless the department specifies otherwise in the Opportunity Announcement.  (a) The name of the applicant.  (A) If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or association, the application must include the names of each person participating in the partnership, joint venture or association. The department may use this information to ensure compliance with ORS 469B.256(3).  (B) If the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company, the application must include the name of the corporation or LLC and its parent corporations, members and any close affiliates or subsidiaries. The department may use this information to ensure compliance with ORS 469B.256(3).  (C) If the applicant is a public or government entity, the application must include written authorization from the entity’s governing body allowing submission of the application.  (b) The name, address, email address and telephone number of the responsible party for the applicant.  (c) A statement verifying that the applicant will be the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the renewable energy production system at the time of installation or construction of the system.  (d) If the applicant has received final certification of tax credits or payment of grants issued by the department within the last five years, the application must contain a statement about the operational status of the systems awarded such grants or tax credits.  (e) A detailed description of the renewable energy production system that includes the following:  (A) The nameplate capacity of the system;  (B) The projected amount of net energy the system will generate, in kWh per year;  (C) The proposed location of the system and an assessment of the suitability of the site;  (D) The expected operational life of the system;  (E) Technical specifications including manufacturer’s information for the selected technology and all major system equipment; and  (F) A description of the operation of the system, including information that demonstrates the system will operate for at least five years.  (f) A resource assessment demonstrating adequate resource supply for the proposed system operations. The resource assessment must describe the type of resource available, explain how the applicant evaluated the resource and describe how the system will access the resource.  (g) A statement of compliance with applicable state and local regulations and that the applicant will notify the appropriate agencies and obtain required licenses and permits.  (h) The number and type of new jobs that will be created by the system and the number of existing jobs sustained throughout the construction, installation and operation of the system. Job estimates should be submitted in hours. These hours must directly relate to the system.  (i) The anticipated system cost.  (j) The amount of anticipated or received incentives directly related to the system.  (k) A description of the applicant’s installation or construction financing plan.  (l) Pro-forma financial statements for the proposed system, including the balance sheet at system commissioning and balance sheet, cash flow statement and income statement for three years. The application must include a clear and explicit statement of the assumptions used in preparing the pro-forma.  (m) A project management plan that contains the following required elements:  (A) A detailed project schedule with major milestones during development, construction and operation, including the target operational date of the system.  (B) A description of how the following will be managed:  (i) Installation and construction.  (ii) Verification of system construction and start-up. If the applicant has developed a commissioning plan, the application must describe the plan.  (iii) Operations and maintenance requirements.  (n) The amount of grant requested by the applicant.  (o) If the applicant has already started installation or construction of the system, a written description of the special circumstances that rendered the filing of an application prior to the start of installation or construction unreasonable.  (p) Other information the department considers necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 469B.250 - 469B.265 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 469B.250 - 469B.265 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 8-15-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOE 3-2012(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-22-12 thru 8-17-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
