



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 Middle Housing in Medium and Large Cities 
 660-046-0340 
 Infrastructure-Specific Application Thresholds 
 
 This rule specifies the circumstances that would justify a time extension for each infrastructure type. 

 (1) Transportation. A local government may use the following circumstances to justify a transportation-based IBTER: 

 (a) Areas where the supporting roadways, intersections, or both are operating or anticipated to operate over capacity, not meet currently acceptable service levels, or have existing geometric/safety limitations. Supporting information regarding the magnitude and severity of the deficiency must support a determination that the deficiency has a significant impact on transportation function or safety in the affected area. This type of transportation IBTER applies only to areas where mitigation is planned and is either within the jurisdiction and financial capacity of the local government, or is planned, financed, and scheduled in partnership with county, state, or other governmental or private partners.  

 (b) Areas that lack adequate emergency vehicle access per current adopted Fire Code standards, and for which mitigation in conjunction with development is not feasible. 

 (2) Stormwater. A local government may use the following circumstances to justify a stormwater-based IBTER: 

 (a) Lack of stormwater infrastructure, or adequately-sized stormwater infrastructure, such as storm drainage pipes, curb and gutters, catch basins and inlets, lateral storm connections, regional stormwater facilities, and discharge outfalls that results in not meeting an acceptable service level. An acceptable service level may include metrics for water quantity discharge, water quality, or both.  

 (b) A downstream stormwater conveyance system deficiency, resulting in localized ponding or flooding and storm pipe back-ups caused by pipes, culverts, or catch basins in disrepair; these problems may be compounded by high groundwater; compacted underlying soils; or backwater from nearby waterways during high flows; any of which that results in not meeting an acceptable service level. 

 (3) Water and Sewer. A local government may use the following circumstances to justify a water or sanitary sewer IBTER: 

 (a) A significant infrastructure deficiency in localized (not citywide) water or sanitary sewer service that results in unacceptable service levels for water or sewer services. For example, maintaining minimum water pressure in a water system or exceeding the capacity of existing infrastructure within a sanitary sewer system. 

 (b) A localized (not citywide) combined sewer/stormwater system that will exceed capacity as a result of new middle housing units. As further justification the local government shall demonstrate how it would mitigate the deficiency with respect to wastewater capacity and stormwater controls, if both aspects would not meet acceptable service levels. In this case, the local government shall include descriptions and justifications for the IBTER consistent with the requirements for each of the infrastructure types. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 197.040 & OR Laws 2019, chapter 639, section 4(6) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.758 & OR Laws 2019, chapter 639, sections 3 and 4 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 14-2020, adopt filed 08/07/2020, effective 08/07/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
