



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 84 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC PROGRAMS 
 860-084-0310 
 Level 1 System Interconnection Review 
 
 (1) An eligible system is eligible for Level 1 interconnection review if:  (a) The facility is inverter-based; and  (b) The facility has a capacity of 25 kilowatts or less.  (2) The electric company must approve interconnection under the Level 1 interconnection review procedure if:  (a) The aggregate generation capacity on the distribution circuit to which the eligible system will interconnect, including the capacity of the eligible system, may not contribute more than 10 percent to the distribution circuit's maximum fault current at the point on the high voltage (primary) level that is nearest the proposed point of common coupling;  (b) An eligible system's point of common coupling may not be on a transmission line, a spot network, or an area network;  (c) If an eligible system is to be connected to a radial distribution circuit, the aggregate generation capacity connected to the circuit, including that of the eligible system, may not exceed 15 percent of the circuit's total annual peak load, as most recently measured at the substation;  (d) If an eligible system is to be connected to a single-phase shared secondary, the aggregate generation capacity connected to the shared secondary, including the eligible system, may not exceed 20 kilovolt-amps; and  (e) If a single-phase eligible system is to be connected to a transformer center tap neutral of a 240 volt service, the addition of the eligible system may not create a current imbalance between the two sides of the 240 volt service of more than 20 percent of nameplate rating of the service transformer.  (3) Within 10 business days after the electric company notifies a Level 1 applicant that the application is complete, the electric company must notify the applicant that:  (a) The eligible system meets all applicable criteria and the interconnection is approved upon installation of any required meter upgrade, completion of any required inspection of the facility, and execution of an interconnection agreement; or  (b) The eligible system has failed to meet one or more of the applicable criteria and the interconnection application is denied.  (4) If an electric company does not notify a Level 1 applicant in writing or by electronic mail whether the interconnection is approved or denied within 20 business days after the receipt of an application, the interconnection will be deemed approved. Interconnections approved under this section remain subject to section (7) of this rule.  (5) Within three business days after sending the notice to an applicant that the proposed interconnection meets the Level 1 requirements, an electric company must notify the applicant:  (a) Whether an inspection of the eligible system for compliance with these interconnection rules is required prior to the operation of the system; and  (b) That an interconnection agreement is required for the eligible system. The electric company must also execute and send to the applicant a Level 1 interconnection agreement, unless the applicant has already submitted such an agreement with its application for interconnection.  (6) On receipt of an executed interconnection agreement from the applicant and satisfactory completion of any required inspection, the electric company must approve the interconnection, conditioned on compliance with all applicable building codes.  (7) The retail electric customer must notify the electric company of the anticipated start date for operation of the eligible system at least five business days prior to starting operation, either through the submittal of the interconnection agreement or in a separate notice. If the electric company requires an inspection of the eligible system, the applicant may not begin operating the facility until satisfactory completion of the inspection.  (8) If an application for Level 1 interconnection review is denied because it does not meet one or more of the applicable requirements in this rule, an applicant may resubmit the application under the Level 2 or Level 3 interconnection review procedure, as appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 2-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
