



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 GOAL 17 WATER-DEPENDENT SHORELANDS 
 660-037-0020 
 Policy 
 
 (1) The Land Conservation and Development Commission (LCDC) recognizes that since the early 1980s, when comprehensive estuary management plans were acknowledged by LCDC, significant economic changes experienced in coastal communities have affected the demands for shorelands. During this period, most of the shorelands designated for water-dependent development in local estuary plans have remained vacant. As a result of these economic changes, there have been increased pressures to develop the vacant or underdeveloped water-dependent lands for nonwater-dependent uses.  (2) The reasons to protect certain shorelands for water-dependent uses are both economic and environmental. Economically, shoreland sites for water-dependent development are a finite economic resource that usually need protection from prevailing real estate market forces. By its very nature, water-dependent development can occur only in shoreland areas and only in certain shorelands with suitable characteristics relating to water access, land transportation and infrastructure, and surrounding land use compatibility. Once these suitable sites are lost to nonwater-dependent uses, they are very difficult and expensive to recover, if at all. Environmentally, providing “suitable” areas for water-dependent development means less economic and political pressure to accommodate future development in environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands, marshes, and biologically productive shallow subtidal areas.  (3) As a matter of state policy, it is not desirable to allow these scarce and non-renewable resources of the marine economy to be irretrievably committed to, or otherwise significantly impaired by, nonindustrial or nonwater-dependent types of development which enjoy a far greater range of locational options. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.010 - 197.830 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 7-1999, f. & cert. ef. 8-20-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
