



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Home Care Commission - Chapter 418 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 HOMECARE CHOICE PROGRAM 
 418-040-0020 
 Participant Eligibility 
 
 (1) In order to enroll as a participant in the Homecare Choice Program, an individual, or the individual's representative, must:  (a) Complete a self-assessment developed by the Oregon Home Care Commission.  (b) Enter into a written service plan with a Homecare Choice provider before the commencement of services.  (c) Pay the Commission in advance for services.  (d) Be able to comply with state and federal wage and tax laws and recordkeeping requirements by completing, submitting, and retaining necessary documents provided by the fiscal intermediary contracted by the Commission.  (e) Complete a Homecare Choice Program enrollment agreement.  (f) Provide information, when requested, for workers' compensation claims related to the individual's provider.  (g) Be able and willing to effectively manage and direct homecare services by performing the functions of an employer, including:  (A) Locating, screening, and hiring a qualified provider.  (B) Evaluating whether the provider has the skills and abilities to meet the individual's specific service needs.  (C) Assigning and directing the provider's work.  (D) Supervising and training the provider.  (E) Scheduling the providers' work, leave, and coverage.  (F) Tracking the hours worked and validating the authorized hours were completed by the provider.  (G) Recognizing, discussing, and attempting to correct any performance deficiencies with the provider.  (H) Discharging an unsatisfactory provider.  (2) An individual becomes ineligible to participate in the Homecare Choice Program when:  (a) The individual, or individual's representative, fails to pay for services in advance.  (b) The individual, or the individual's representative, fails to maintain an account balance equal to one service period.  (c) The individual, or the individual's representative, is unable or unwilling to effectively manage and direct homecare services by failing to meet the requirements outlined in OAR 418-040-0020(1)(g)(A)–(H).  (d) The individual, or the individual's representative, is unable or unwilling to comply with state and federal wage and tax laws or recordkeeping requirements by failing to complete, submit, and retain necessary documents provided by a fiscal intermediary contracted with the Oregon Home Care Commission.  (e) Dangerous conditions in the individual's service setting jeopardize the health or safety of the individual or provider, and the individual, or the individual's representative, is unable or unwilling to implement necessary safeguards to minimize the dangers.  (f) Services are not able to be provided safely or adequately by the provider based on:  (A) The extent of the participant's service needs; or  (B) The choices or preferences of the participant or the participant's representative.  (3) Participants determined to be ineligible for continued participation in the Homecare Choice Program will be sent written notice 10 days in advance of the proposed action. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.602 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.595-625 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HCC 1-2016, f. 6-13-16, cert. ef. 6-20-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HCC 1-2015(Temp), f. 12-31-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
