



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 OREGON AGRICULTURAL OPPORTUNITIES FUND 
 603-009-0070 
 Grant Administration 
 
 (1) The Director and the grant recipient will enter a grant agreement that provides:  (a) Incorporation of the full proposal as an integral part of the agreement;  (b) The grant will be disbursed according to an approved payment schedule, which shall also be incorporated as an integral part of the grant agreement. Prior to each subsequent grant payment, or upon request by the Department, the grantee will submit an interim report for evaluation by the Department. This report shall include:  (A) Documentation of project results to date:  (B) Projections of short-range and long-range results;  (C) Discussion of project benefits;  (D) Estimates of final results.  (c) In the event an interim report is deemed unsatisfactory by the staff of the Department, the Director will withhold the relevant payment pending resolution of the identified deficiencies. Grantees consistently unable to meet performance standards as agreed upon will be subject to review by the Director and, if necessary, cancellation of the grant agreement.  (2) Within six months of the official close of the project, each recipient shall submit a final report to the Department. This report will provide the most current and detailed information on project benefits as compared with the original criteria.  (3) Grantees must give credit to the Department of Agriculture and the Oregon State Lottery in all project publicity.  (4) Grantees must maintain project records sufficient for monitoring by the Department.  (5) Grantees that cannot complete their projects within the contractual timelines must so inform the Department and request a formal extension to the project.  (6) Unexpended grant funds not used by the grantee will be reverted to the Oregon Agricultural Opportunities Fund for reallocation.  (7) Grantees are responsible for having their projects audited annually for program and financial compliance. Audits may coincide with the grantee’s normal fiscal year audit cycle. A copy of the audit is to be forwarded to the Department of Agriculture. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 576 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 576.013 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 13-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-18-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
