



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 32 TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
 860-032-0510 
 Customer Proprietary Network Information (CPNI) 
 
 (1) The purpose of this rule is to specify requirements under which telecommunications carriers may use, disclose, or permit access to customer proprietary network information. This rule does not relieve telecommunications carriers of any requirements imposed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regarding Customer Proprietary Network Information in 47 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 64, §64.2001 through §64.2009, or by Section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 USC 222).  (2) This rule applies to all telecommunications carriers providing intrastate telecommunications service in Oregon, except that it applies to telecommunications cooperatives only for services which are subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction pursuant to ORS 759.220 and 759.225.  (3) For purposes of this rule, the following definitions apply:  (a) "Aggregate customer proprietary network information" or "Aggregate CPNI" means collective CPNI data that relates to a group or category of services or customers, from which individual customer identities and characteristics have been removed.  (b) "Carrier" or "telecommunications carrier" means any provider of intrastate telecommunications service as defined in ORS 759.005(2). "Carrier" or "telecommunications carrier" includes competitive providers, telecommunications cooperatives, and telecommunications utilities  (c) "Customer" means a subscriber, end-user, or consumer of carrier services or an applicant for carrier services.  (d) "Customer proprietary network information" or "CPNI" means individual customer information that a carrier accumulates in the course of providing telecommunications service to the customer. CPNI includes information that relates to type, quantity, technical configuration, destination, location, billing amounts, and usage data. CPNI also includes information contained in bills pertaining to telecommunications service received by a customer, except that CPNI does not include subscriber list information.  (e) "Subscriber list information" means the listed names of subscribers of a carrier and those subscribers’ telephone numbers, addresses, or primary advertising classifications (as such classifications are assigned at the time of establishment of service), or any combination of such listed names, numbers, addresses, or classifications.  (4) Except as required by law or with approval of the customer, a telecommunications carrier that receives or obtains customer proprietary network information by virtue of its provision of telecommunications service shall only use, disclose, or permit access to CPNI in its provision of:  (a) The telecommunications service from which such information is derived; or  (b) Services necessary to, or used in, the provision of such telecommunications service, including publishing of directories and billing.  (5) A telecommunications carrier shall disclose CPNI, upon affirmative written request by the customer, to any person designated by the customer.  (6) A telecommunications carrier that obtains CPNI by virtue of its provision of a telecommunications service may use, disclose, or permit access to aggregate CPNI for any lawful purpose. However, a telecommunications carrier may use, disclose, or permit access to aggregate CPNI other than for purposes described in subsection (4) of this rule only if it provides such aggregate information to other carriers or persons on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, upon reasonable request therefor.  (7) Nothing in this rule prohibits a telecommunications carrier from using, disclosing, or permitting access to CPNI obtained from its customers, either directly or indirectly through its agents:  (a) To initiate, render, bill, or collect for telecommunications services;  (b) To protect the rights or property of the carrier, or to protect users of those services and other carriers from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful use of, or subscription to, such services; or  (c) To provide any inbound telemarketing, referral, or administrative services to the customer for the duration of the call, if such call was initiated by the customer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 759 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 759.015 & 759.030 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 3-2004, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
