



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Fish and Wildlife 
 Chapter 635 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 9 SALMON AND TROUT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM AND RIPARIAN LANDS TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM 
 635-009-0420 
 Cooperative Salmon Hatchery Program Project Application 
 
 (1) Any public, private nonprofit, or STEP organization may propose a cooperative salmon hatchery project to the department. Projects may include but are not limited to: fish propagation, brood stock development, acclimation, and fish stocking.  (2) Proposed projects shall be submitted in writing on forms provided by the department.  (3) A separate application is required for each proposed project or project site.  (4) The department may assist in the development of project applications.  (5) Project applications shall include:  (a) Project Summary — Including a list of cooperators, name and phone number of contact person for each cooperator, proposed funding source, and project goals;  (b) Project Description — Including enhancement goal (rehabilitation or supplementation), type of project (fish propagation, brood stock development, acclimation, or fish stocking), location and physical layout of the facility, water supply (source, quantity, presence or absence of fish, and manner of access), proposed production (species, stock, number of fish, and release location), and expected duration of project (ongoing or beginning and ending dates);  (c) Project Justification — Including need for project, expected costs and benefits of project, expected local consequences (positive or negative) of project (biological, social, and economic), and local support for project;  (d) A copy of all leases, options, easements, or other instruments by which project sponsor purports to have sufficient property rights pertaining to the proposed site to permit conduct of the proposed operation;  (e) A copy of all federal, state, and local licenses or permits required to permit conduct of the proposed operation;  (f) A statement from the appropriate local planning authorities of the county or other jurisdiction within which the proposed hatchery or release site is located, analyzing whether or not, in the opinion of the local jurisdiction, the proposed operation is in compliance with the local jurisdiction's comprehensive land-use plan and other applicable laws.  (6) Incomplete applications shall be returned to the project sponsor for completion.  (7) The department may require any additional information it deems necessary in order to evaluate the project proposal. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 496.138 & 506.119 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 496.146 & 506.124 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FWC 15-1997, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
