



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 3 MODEL RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR CONTESTED CASES 
 137-003-0572 
 Depositions in Contested Cases 
 
 (1) Depositions may not be taken in contested cases without agency authorization.  (2) A party or an attorney representing the agency may petition the agency for an order to take a deposition of a witness. A copy of the petition shall be sent to all other parties and the administrative law judge. The petition shall include the name and address of the witness, explain why the witness's testimony is material to the proceedings and explain why no other means of obtaining the witness's testimony for the hearing is adequate. As used in this rule, materiality means the testimony sought tends to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the issues more or less probable.  (3) The agency shall consider the petition and issue a written order either granting or denying the deposition. If the agency grants the deposition, the deposition shall be taken on such terms as the agency may order including, but not limited to, location, manner of recording, time of day, persons permitted to be present and duration.  (4) Examination and cross-examination of deponents may proceed as permitted at hearing.  (5) The testimony of the deponent shall be recorded.  (6) All objections made at the time of the examination shall be noted on the record.  (7) At any time during the taking of a deposition, upon motion and a showing by a party, the agency or a deponent that the deposition is being conducted or hindered in bad faith or in a manner not consistent with these rules or in such manner as unreasonably to annoy, embarrass or oppress the deponent, the agency or any party, the agency may order the examination to cease or may limit the scope or manner of the taking of the deposition. The taking of the deposition shall be suspended for the time necessary to make a motion under this subsection.  (8) Documents and things produced for inspection during the examination of the witness shall, upon the request of a party or the agency, be marked for identification and annexed to and returned with the deposition, and may be inspected and copied by any party or the agency.  (9) Deposition of a non-party may be compelled by a subpoena issued by the agency. The agency or the party requesting the deposition may apply to circuit court to compel obedience to a subpoena issued to compel a deposition.  (10) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the agency may delegate to the administrative law judge its authority to authorize or limit depositions. Unless expressly required by law or expressly stated in the delegation by the agency, an administrative law judge may not require the agency to pay for any deposition taken by a party. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183.341 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 183.341, 183.425 & OL 1999 & Ch. 849 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 19-2003, f. 12-12-03, cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 7-2003, f. 7-11-03, cert. ef. 7-21-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
