



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 230 INCINERATOR REGULATIONS 
 340-230-0350 
 Municipal Waste Combustors: Recordkeeping and Reporting
 
 
 (1) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the standards contained in OAR 340-230-0310 through 340-230-0335 must maintain records of the information specified in subsections (1)(a) through (l) of this rule , as applicable, for each affected facility for a period of at least 5 years. The information must be available for submittal to the Department or for review onsite by an inspector. 

 (a) The calendar date of each record. 

 (b) The emission concentrations and parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems as specified in paragraphs (1)(b)(A) and (B) of this rule: 

 (A) The measurements specified in subparagraphs (1)(b)(A)(i) through (v) of this rule must be recorded and be available for submittal to the Department or review on-site by Department inspector: 

 (i) All 6-minute average opacity levels as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(3). 

 (ii) All 1-hour average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(5). 

 (iii) All 1-hour average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(8). 

 (iv) All 1-hour average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, municipal waste combustor unit load measurements (if applicable), and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(9). 

 (v) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 1-hour average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(13). 

 (B) The average concentrations and percent reductions, as applicable, specified in subparagraphs (1)(b)(B)(i) through (vi) of this rule must be computed and recorded, and must be available for submittal to the Department or review on-site by Department inspector. 

 (i) All 24-hour daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations and all 24-hour daily geometric average percent reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(5). 

 (ii) All 24-hour daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(8). 

 (iii) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, as applicable, as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(9). 

 (iv) All 4-hour block arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load levels (if applicable) and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(9). 

 (v) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 24-hour daily arithmetic average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(13). 

 (vi) For owners and operators who elect to use a continuous automated sampling system to monitor mercury or dioxin/furan instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all integrated 24-hour mercury concentrations or all integrated 2-week dioxin/furan concentrations as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(15). 

 (c) Identification of the calendar dates when any of the average emission concentrations, percent reductions, or operating parameters recorded under subparagraphs (1)(b)(B)(i) through (vi) of this rule, or the opacity levels recorded under subparagraph (1)(b)(A)(i) of this rule are above the applicable limits, with reasons for such exceedances and a description of corrective actions taken. 

 (d) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, the records specified in paragraphs (1)(d)(A) through (E) of this rule: 

 (A) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(12)(a)(A) during each mercury emissions performance test, with supporting calculations. 

 (B) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(12)(a)(B) during each dioxin/furan emissions performance test, with supporting calculations. 

 (C) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated for each hour of operation as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(12)(c)(B), with supporting calculations. 

 (D) The total carbon usage for each calendar quarter estimated as specified under OAR 340-230-0340(12)(c), with supporting calculations. 

 (E) Carbon injection system operating parameter data for the parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed). 

 (e) Identification of the calendar dates and times (hours) for which valid hourly data specified in paragraphs (1)(e)(A) through (F) of this rule have not been obtained, or continuous automated sampling systems were not operated as specified in paragraph (1)(e)(G) of this rule, including reasons for not obtaining the data and a description of corrective actions taken. 

 (A) Sulfur dioxide emissions data; 

 (B) Nitrogen oxides emissions data; 

 (C) Carbon monoxide emissions data; 

 (D) Municipal waste combustor unit load data; 

 (E) Particulate matter control device temperature data; and 

 (F) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual test methods, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions data. 

 (G) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxins/furans or mercury as allowed under OAR 340-230-0340(15) and (16), dates and times when the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample. 

 (f) Identification of each occurrence that sulfur dioxide emissions data, nitrogen oxides emissions data, particulate matter emissions data, cadmium emissions data, lead emissions data, mercury emissions data, hydrogen chloride emissions data, or dioxin/furan emissions data (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) or operational data (i.e., carbon monoxide emissions, unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature) have been excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters, and the reasons for excluding the data. 

 (g) The results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide continuous emission monitoring systems, as required by 40 CFR part 60 appendix F, procedure 1. 

 (h) The test reports documenting the results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests listed in paragraphs (1)(h)(A) and (B) of this rule must be recorded along with supporting calculations: 

 (A) The results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission limits. 

 (B) For the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent dioxin/furan performance tests recorded under paragraph (1)(h)(A) of this rule, the maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature (for each particulate matter control device). 

 (i) An owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual methods must maintain records specified in paragraphs (1)(i)(A) through (C) of this rule. 

 (A) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, as required under 40 CFR part 60 appendix F, procedure 2, the results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for particulate matter. 

 (B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride instead of conducting EPA manual test methods, the results of all quality evaluations, such as daily drift tests and periodic accuracy determinations, specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by OAR 340-230-0340(14)(e). 

 (C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the results of all quality evaluations specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by OAR 340-230-0340(16)(e). 

 (j) Training records specified in paragraphs (1)(j)(A) through (D) of this rule. 

 (A) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been provisionally certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by OAR 340-230-0330(1), including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification. 

 (B) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been fully certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by OAR 340-230-0330(2), including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification. 

 (C) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have completed the EPA municipal waste combustor operator training course or a State-approved equivalent course, including documentation of training completion. 

 (D) Records of when a certified operator is temporarily off site. Include two main items: 

 (i) If the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than 12 hours, but for 2 weeks or less, and no other certified operator is on site, record the dates that the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor were off site. 

 (ii) When all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 2 weeks and no other certified operator is on site, keep records of four items: 

 (I) Time of day that all certified persons are off site. 

 (II) The conditions that cause those people to be off site. 

 (III) The corrective actions taken by owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is on site as soon as practicable. 

 (IV) Copies of the written reports submitted every 4 weeks that summarize the actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor will be on site as soon as practicable. 

 (k) Records showing the names of persons who have completed a review of the operating manual as required by OAR 340-230-0330(5), including the date of the initial review and subsequent annual reviews. 

 (l) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control: 

 (A) Identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for mercury or dioxin/furan emissions with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken. 

 (B) Identification of the calendar dates when the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed) recorded under OAR 340-230-0340(12)(a)(A) and (B) are below the level(s) estimated during the performance tests, with reasons for such occurrences and a description of corrective actions taken. 

 (2) The owner or operator of an affected facility must submit the information specified in subsections (2)(a) through (f) of this rule in a performance test report within 60 days following the completion of each performance test. 

 (a) The performance test data as recorded under subparagraphs (1)(b)(B)(i) through (iv) of this rule for each performance test for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature. 

 (b) The test report documenting the performance test recorded under subsection (1)(h) of this rule for particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, fugitive ash emissions. 

 (c) The performance evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring systems using the applicable performance specifications in 40 CFR 60 appendix B. 

 (d) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device inlet temperature(s) established during the dioxin/furan performance test. 

 (e) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for mercury control, the owner or operator must submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded during the mercury performance test. 

 (f) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for dioxin/furan control, the owner or operator must submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded during the dioxin/furan performance test. 

 (3) The owner or operator of an affected facility must submit semi-annual reports that includes the information specified in subsections (3)(a) through (e) of this rule, as applicable, no later than July 30 for the first six months of each calendar year and February 1 for the second six months of each calendar year. 

 (a) A summary of data collected for all pollutants and parameters regulated under this rule, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (3)(a)(A) through (E) of this rule: 

 (A) A list of the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels achieved during any performance tests conducted during the reporting period. 

 (B) A list of the highest emission level recorded for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature based on the data recorded during the reporting period. 

 (C) List the highest opacity level measured based on the data recorded during the reporting period. 

 (D) Periods when valid data were not obtained as described in subparagraphs (3)(a)(D)(i) through (iii) of this rule. 

 (i) The total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, or particulate matter control device temperature data were not obtained based on the data recorded during the reporting period. 

 (ii) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride were not obtained based on the data recorded during the reporting period. For each continuously monitored pollutant or parameter, the hours of valid emissions data per calendar quarter and per calendar year expressed as a percent of the hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste. 

 (iii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample based on the data recorded during the reporting period. Also, the number of hours during which the continuous automated sampling system was operating and collecting a valid sample as a percent of hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste. 

 (E) Periods when valid data were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters as described subparagraphs (3)(a)(E)(i) through (iii) of this rule. 

 (i) The total number of hours that data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded during the reporting period. 

 (ii) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours that data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded during the reporting period. 

 (iii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours that data for mercury and dioxin/furan were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded during the reporting periods. 

 (b) The summary of data reported under subsection (3)(a) of this rule must also provide the types of data specified in subsection (3)(a)(A) through (E) of this rule for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Department with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period. 

 (c) The summary of data including the information specified in subsections (3)(a) and (b) of this rule must highlight any emission or parameter levels that did not achieve the emission or parameter limits specified by OAR 340-230-0310 through 340-230-0320. 

 (d) A notification of intent to begin the reduced dioxin/furan performance testing schedule specified in OAR 340-230-0340(7)(d)(C) during the following calendar year and notification of intent to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels as established in OAR 340-230-0340(12) to similarly designed and equipped units on site. 

 (e) Documentation periods when all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 12 hours. 

 (4) The owner or operator of an affected facility must submit a semiannual report that includes the information specified in subsections (4)(a) through (e) of this rule for any recorded pollutant or parameter that does not comply with the pollutant or parameter limit by July 30 for the first six months of each calendar year and February 1 for the second six months of each calendar year. 

 (a) The semiannual report must include information recorded under subsection (1)(c) of this rule for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or that elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, and opacity. 

 (b) For each date recorded under subsection (1)(c) of this rule and reported, as required by subsection (4)(a) of this rule, the semiannual report must include the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, or opacity data, as applicable, recorded under subparagraphs (1)(b)(A)(i) and (1)(b)(B)(i) through (iv) of this rule, as applicable. 

 (c) If the test reports recorded under subsection (1)(h) of this rule document any particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/ furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels that were above the applicable pollutant limits, the semiannual report must include a copy of the test report documenting the emission levels and the corrective actions taken. 

 (d) The semiannual report must include the information recorded under subparagraph (1)(l)(B) of this rule for the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate. 

 (e) For each operating date reported as required under subsection (4)(d) of this rule, the semiannual report must include the carbon feed rate data recorded under paragraph (1)(d)(C) of this rule. 

 (5) All reports specified under sections (2) through (4) of this rule must be submitted as a paper copy, postmarked on or before the submittal dates specified, and maintained onsite as a paper copy for a period of 5 years. 

 (6) All records specified under section (1) of this rule must be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Department. 

 (7) If the owner or operator of an affected facility would prefer to select a different annual or semiannual date for submitting the periodic reports required under paragraphs (3) and (4) of this rule, then the dates may be changed in an Oregon Title V Operating Permit by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Department according to the procedures specified in 40 CFR 60.19(c). 

 (8) Owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods must notify the Administrator and the Department one month prior to starting or stopping use of the particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous automated sampling systems. 

 (9) Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride monitoring systems. In addition to complying with the requirements specified in sections (1) through (8) of this rule, the owner or operator of an affected source who elects to install a continuous emission monitoring system for cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride as specified in OAR 340-230-0340(13), must maintain the records in subsections (9)(a) through (j) of this rule and report the information in subsections (9)(k) and (l) of this rule, relevant to the continuous emission monitoring system: 

 (a) All required continuous emission monitoring measurements (including monitoring data recorded during unavoidable continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns and out-of-control periods). 

 (b) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. 

 (c) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was out of control, as defined in OAR 340-230-0340(14)(d). 

 (d) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source. 

 (e) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source; 

 (f) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known). 

 (g) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions. 

 (h) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous emission monitoring system that was inoperative or out of control. 

 (i) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous emission monitoring system under OAR 340-230-0340(14). 

 (j) When more than one continuous emission monitoring system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (e.g., multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator must report the results as required for each continuous emission monitoring system. 

 (k) Submit to the Department for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by OAR 340-230-0340(13)(m) and (14), including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by OAR 340-230-0340(14)(e). The owner or operator must maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Department. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator must keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Department, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. 

 (l) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous emission monitoring system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the annual or semiannual report required in sections (3) or (4) of this rule. 

 (10) Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury monitoring. In addition to complying with the requirements specified in sections (1) through (8) of this rule, the owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to install a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury, as specified in OAR 340-230-0340(16), must maintain the records in subsections (10)(a) through (j) of this rule and report the information in subsections (10)(k) and (l) of this rule, relevant to the continuous automated sampling system: 

 (a) All required 24-hour integrated mercury concentration or 2-week integrated dioxin/furan concentration data (including any data obtained during unavoidable system breakdowns and out-of-control periods); 

 (b) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was inoperative; 

 (c) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was out of control, as defined in OAR 340-230-0340(16)(d); 

 (d) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source; 

 (e) The specific identification (i.e., the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source; 

 (f) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known); 

 (g) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions; 

 (h) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous automated sampling system that was inoperative or out of control; 

 (i) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous automated sampling system under OAR 340-230-0340(16); 

 (j) When more than one continuous automated sampling system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (e.g., multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator must report the results as required for each system. 

 (k) Submit to the Department for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by OAR 340-230-0340(15)(k) and (16) including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by OAR 340-230-0340(16)(e). The owner or operator must maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Department. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator must keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Department, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. 

 (l) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous automated sampling system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual reports required in sections (3) or (4) of this rule. 

 (11) For affected facilities installing additional controls, the owner or operator must submit to the Department semi-annual progress reports on July 30 for the first six months of each calendar year and February 1 for the second six months of each calendar year. 

 (12) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to OAR 340-230-0300 through 340-230-0350 must maintain records of and submit the following information with any Notice of Construction required by OAR 340-210-0200 through 340-210-0220 or Notice of Approval required by 340-218-0190: 

 (a) Intent to construct; 

 (b) Planned initial startup date; 

 (c) The types of fuels that the owner or operated plans to combust in the municipal waste combustor; and 

 (d) The municipal waste combustor unit capacity and supporting capacity calculations prepared in accordance with OAR 340-230-0340(10). 

 [NOTE: EPA Methods are found at Appendix A to 40 C.F.R. Part 60.] 

 [NOTE: View a PDf of EPA Procedures by clicking on "Tables" link below.] 

 
 
 
 
 
 [ED. NOTE: To view attachments referenced in rule text, click here for PDF copy.] 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468.020 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 13-2019, amend filed 05/16/2019, effective 05/16/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 15-2008, f. & cert. ef 12-31-08 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03 
DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-025-1000 
DEQ 4-2003, f. & cert. ef. 2-06-03 
DEQ 27-1996, f. & cert. ef. 12-11-96 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
