



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 810 GENERAL 
 441-810-0220 
 Communication In Connection With Debt Collection 
 
 (1) Without the prior consent of the debtor given directly to the collection agency or the express permission of a court of competent jurisdiction, a collection agency may not communicate with a debtor in connection with the collection of any debt:  (a) At any unusual time or place or a time or place known or which should be known to be inconvenient to the debtor. In the absence of knowledge of circumstances to the contrary, a collection agency shall assume that the convenient time for communicating with a debtor is after 8 a.m. and before 9 p.m., local time at the debtor’s location;  (b) If the collection agency knows the debtor is represented by an attorney with respect to such debt and has knowledge of, or can readily ascertain, such attorney’s name and address, unless the attorney fails to respond within a reasonable period of time to a communication from the collection agency or unless the attorney consents to direct communication with the debtor; or  (c) At the debtor’s place of employment if the collection agency knows or has reason to know that the debtor’s employer prohibits the debtor from receiving such communication.  (2) Except as provided in OAR 441-810-0210, without the prior consent of the debtor given directly to the collection agency, or the express permission of a court of competent jurisdiction, or as reasonably necessary to effectuate a postjudgment judicial remedy, a collection agency may not communicate, in connection with the collection of any debt, with any person other than the debtor, his attorney, a consumer reporting agency if otherwise permitted by law, the obligee, the attorney of the obligee, or the attorney of the collection agency.  (3) If a debtor notifies a collection agency in writing that the debtor refuses to pay a debt or that the debtor wishes the collection agency to cease further communication with the debtor, the collection agency shall not communicate further with the debtor with respect to such debt, except:  (a) To advise the debtor that the collection agency’s further efforts are being terminated;  (b) To notify the debtor that the collection agency or obligee may invoke specified remedies which are ordinarily invoked by such collection agency or obligee; or  (c) Where applicable, to notify the debtor that the collection agency or obligee intends to invoke a specified remedy. If such notice from the debtor under this section (3) is made by mail, notification shall be complete upon receipt. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 697.085 & Ch. 421, Sec. 4 & 2003 OL 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 25.020 & Ch. 421, Sec. 4 & 2003 OL 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 6-2003, f. 12-30-03 cert. ef. 1-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
