



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 CLINICAL LABORATORIES 
 333-024-0265 
 Alpha-Fetoprotein Testing and Other Serum and Amniotic Fluid Based Markers for Congenital/Genetic Defects: Procedure
 
 
 (1) Prior to performing patient screening, the laboratory shall have available documentation of its expertise with the assays of MSAFP, AFAFP, Serum Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, Unconjugated Estriol, Amniotic Fluid Acetylcholinesterase or other related markers for the purposes of congenital/genetic screening. 

 (2) Each laboratory shall establish reference data based on the laboratory’s own test results for normal MSAFP, AFAFP, Serum Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, Unconjugated Estriol, Amniotic Fluid Acetylcholinesterase or other related markers for medically applicable times throughout the pregnancy. 

 (3) When required for calculation or interpretation of results, protocols shall be developed and implemented for adjusting test values for variables such as: gestational age, maternal weight, diabetic status, race or other factors. 

 (4) At least annually, the laboratory shall: 

 (a) Review the most recent patient test results; 

 (b) Compare current patient test data to previous results to ascertain changes in the median and dispersion of values; 

 (c) Investigate the causes of variation; 

 (d) Make corrections as needed; and 

 (e) Calculate and review percentages of abnormal results. 

 (5) Laboratories shall obtain and use in the calculation and interpretation, where applicable, at least the following information on each patient: 

 (a) Date of birth; 

 (b) An accurate estimation of gestational age, and method used for this determination; 

 (c) Patient’s weight at the time the sample was obtained; 

 (d) Whether the patient is an insulin-dependent diabetic (IDDM); 

 (e) Patient’s racial extraction; 

 (f) Date sample was collected; 

 (g) Patient history of multiple gestations; and 

 (h) Other pertinent medical information. 

 (6) The multiples of the median (MOM) shall be calculated using the laboratory’s own reference data for each medically applicable time during gestation. 

 (7) Patient reports shall include information as indicated in section (5) of this rule. Additional information shall include: 

 (a) Defects screened for; 

 (b) Risk or cutoff used for determination of abnormal results; 

 (c) Interpretation of results; and 

 (d) Any other medically relevant information necessary for the interpretation of results. 

 (8) Policies shall be established for timely reporting of all results to the individual authorized to receive the patient’s results. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 438.040 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 438.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 7-2026, minor correction filed 01/07/2026, effective 01/07/2026 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 6-1995, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-95 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HD 28-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-7-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
