



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 19 INVESTIGATION AND CONTROL OF DISEASES: GENERAL POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 333-019-0003 
 Providing Information to the Oregon Health Authority or Local Public Health Administrator 
 
 (1) The Authority or local public health administrator (LPHA) may, as necessary to investigate a case of a reportable disease, disease outbreak or epidemic, require a health care provider, public or private entity, or an individual to permit the inspection or provide copies of information necessary to the investigation.  (2) Information that may be inspected or provided to the Authority or LPHA includes but is not limited to:  (a) Individually identifiable health information and contact information related to:  (A) The case;  (B) An individual who may be the potential source of exposure or infection;  (C) An individual who has been or may have been exposed to or affected by the disease; or  (D) A control.  (b) Policies, practices, systems or structures that may have affected the likelihood of disease transmission.  (c) Factors that may influence an individual's susceptibility to the disease or likelihood of being diagnosed with the disease.  (3) In addition to requesting information the Authority or LPHA may inspect, sample or test real or personal property. The Authority or LPHA will request permission to inspect, sample or test real or personal property prior to taking any action. If an individual or entity refuses to allow access to real or personal property for this purpose, the Authority or LPHA may seek an administrative warrant in order to obtain access.  (4) The Authority or LPHA shall request the information required to be submitted orally or in writing and shall inform the individual or entity from whom the information is sought when the information is required to be submitted. In lieu of requesting that information be provided to the Authority or LPHA, the Authority or LPHA may request access to the information at the location where the information is located.  (5) A person who provides information in accordance with these rules is immune from civil or criminal liability that might otherwise be incurred or imposed with respect to providing information under this section.  (6) Pursuant to ORS 433.008, all information obtained by the Authority or LPHA in the course of an investigation is confidential, may only be released in accordance with ORS 433.008(2) through (6), and except as required for the administration of public health laws or rules, a state or local public health official or employee may not be examined in any administrative or judicial proceeding about the existence or contents of a reportable disease report or other information received by the Authority or LPHA in the course of an investigation of a reportable disease or disease outbreak. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 433.004 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 433.004 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 7-2011, f. & cert. ef. 8-19-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
