



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 37 GOAL 17 WATER-DEPENDENT SHORELANDS 
 660-037-0050 
 Minimum Water-Dependent Shoreland Protection Acreage 
 
 (1) Estuarine cities and counties shall protect for water-dependent industrial, commercial, and recreational uses a minimum amount of shorelands suitable for water-dependent uses.  (2) Estuarine cities and counties shall calculate the minimum amount of shorelands to be protected within their respective political boundaries based on the following combination of factors as they may exist:  (a) Current Water-Dependent Use — Acreage of estuarine shorelands that are currently being used for water-dependent uses; and  (b) Former Water-Dependent Use — Acreage of estuarine shorelands that at any time were used for water-dependent uses and still possess a structure or facility that provides water-dependent access.  (c) For purposes of this rule, the calculation of the minimum amount of shorelands to be protected shall include storage and other backup land that is, or in the case of former water-dependent uses was, in direct support of the water-dependent use at the site.  (3) The minimum amount of shorelands to be protected in each estuary as a whole shall be equivalent to the sum of the minimum acreage calculations for each city and the county in the estuary.  (4) To calculate the minimum water-dependent shoreland protection acreage required by this rule, local governments may:  (a) Rely on data from local assessor maps or from plat maps that were officially adopted as part of a locally approved development plan;  (b) Generate original acreage data from orthorectified aerial photography;  (c) For shoreland parcels with a mixture of water-dependent and nonwater-dependent uses, visually approximate the acreage after examining assessor maps or plat maps, or after making a physical reconnaissance of the mixed-use shoreland sites; or  (d) Any other valid source as appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.010 - 197.830 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 7-1999, f. & cert. ef. 8-20-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
