



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL 
 603-052-1200 
 Quarantine; Noxious Weeds
 
 
 (1) Establishing Quarantine. A quarantine is established against the noxious weeds listed herein. Noxious weeds have been declared a menace to the public welfare (ORS 569.180 and 569.350) because of the environmental and economic degradation that occurs when they become established. 

 (2) Areas Under Quarantine. The entire State of Oregon and all other states of the United States and all foreign countries. 

 (3) Covered Plants. For purposes of this rule the term "plants" applies to whole plants, plant parts, and seeds. This rule applies to all "A" and "B" state designated noxious weeds listed herein, except as provided in section (6). Plants on the Federal Noxious Weed List (7 C.F.R. 360.200) are also covered by this rule, with the exception of Japanese blood grass, Imperata cylindrica , var. Red Baron and Chinese water spinach, Ipomoea aquatica . 

 (4) “A” weeds 

 (a) "A" designated weeds. Weeds of known economic importance which occur in the state in small enough infestations to make exclusion, eradication, or containment possible; or which are not known to occur, but their presence in neighboring states makes future occurrence in Oregon seem imminent. 

 (b) “A” weeds are controlled through exclusion, early detection, and rapid response (EDRR). Control of “A” weeds is a high priority for Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) and the primary goal is to prevent introduction and permanent establishment of “A” weeds. If “A” weeds are introduced, and eradication is not feasible, the secondary goal is to implement control measures to contain the “A” weeds to as small an area as possible so as to prevent widespread occurrence in Oregon. 

 (c) When “A” weeds are detected, control actions are mandatory and the goal of such control is eradication. Any person owning or occupying property upon which “A” weeds are detected must contact the Oregon Department of Agriculture within 48 hours of detection. 

 (d) Upon detection of “A” weeds, ODA may develop a survey, eradication, and monitoring plan to control or eradicate detected weeds. ODA may either develop and conduct appropriate measures to control or eradicate such weeds or may enter into a contract for the purpose of controlling or eradicating “A” weeds. 

 (e) Control or eradication of “A” weeds may be implemented at no cost to a person owning or controlling land within this state upon which “A” weeds are detected. However, ODA may request any person owning or controlling land within this state to control, prevent the spread of, or eradicate where feasible “A” weeds, subject to supervision of such activities by the ODA. 

 (f) If ODA or a county are unable to control or eradicate “A” weeds on private property, any person owning or controlling land within this state must control and take measures to eliminate or prevent the possibility of spread of “A” weeds to other lands and ownerships. Control measures for “A” weeds must be implemented in a timely manner as determined by ODA. Treatments must provide sufficient levels of control to make progress toward the goal of eradication. 

 (g) ODA inspectors may access all lands within Oregon for the purpose of ORS 569.175 to 569.195 including carrying out the control or eradication of “A” weeds. 

 (h) Any person owning or controlling land within this state found in violation of ORS 569.175 to 569.195 or these rules may be subject to fines up to the maximum for Class B violations. 

 (i) The following is a list of “A” weeds: 

 (A) African rue — Peganum harmala 

 (B) Camelthorn — Alhagi pseudalhagi 

 (C) Cape ivy — Delairea odorata 

 (D) Coltsfoot — Tussilago farfara 

 (E) Common frogbit — Hydrocharis morsus-ranae 

 (F) Cordgrass: 

 (i) Common — Spartina anglica 

 (ii) Dense-flowered — Spartina densiflora 

 (iii) Saltmeadow — Spartina patens 

 (iv) Smooth — Spartina alterniflora 

 (G) Delta arrowhead — Sagittaria platyphyla 

 (H) European water chestnut — Trapa natans 

 (I) Flowering rush — Butomus umbellatus 

 (J) Garden yellow loosestrife — Lysimachia vulgaris 

 (K) Giant hogweed — Heracleum mantegazzianum 

 (L) Goatgrass: 

 (i) Barbed — Aegilops triuncialis 

 (ii) Ovate — Aegilops ovata 

 (M) Goatsrue — Galega officinalis 

 (N) Hawkweed: 

 (i) King-devil — Hieracium piloselloides 

 (ii) Mouse-ear — Hieracium pilosella 

 (iii) Orange — Hieracium aurantiacum 

 (iv) Yellow — Hieracium floribundum 

 (O) Hoary alyssum — Berteroa incana 

 (P) Hydrilla — Hydrilla verticillata 

 (Q) Japanese dodder — Cuscuta japonica 

 (R) Kudzu — Pueraria lobata 

 (S) Matgrass — Nardus stricta 

 (T) Oblong spurge — Euphorbia oblongata 

 (U) Palmer amaranth — Amaranthus palmeri 

 (V) Paterson’s curse — Echium plantagineum 

 (W) Purple nutsedge — Cyperus rotundus 

 (X) Ravennagrass — Saccharum ravennae 

 (Y) Squarrose knapweed — Centaurea virgata 

 (Z) Starthistle: 

 (i) Iberian — Centaurea iberica 

 (ii) Purple — Centaurea calcitrapa 

 ( AA ) Thistle: 

 (i) Plumeless — Carduus acanthoides 

 (ii) Smooth distaff — Carthamus baeticus 

 (iii) Taurian — Onopordum tauricum 

 (iv) Turkish — Carduus cinereus  

 (v) Welted (curly plumeless) — Carduus crispus 

 (vi) Wooly distaff — Carthamus lanatus 

 (BB) Water soldiers — Stratiotes aloides 

 (CC) West Indian spongeplant — Limnobium laevigatum 

 (DD) White bryonia — Bryonia alba 

 (EE) Yellow floating heart — Nymphoides peltata 

 (FF) Yellowtuft — Alyssum murale, A. corsicum 

 (5) “B” Weeds 

 (a) "B" designated weeds means weeds of economic importance which are regionally abundant, but which may not occur or have limited distribution in some counties. “B” weeds shall be managed on a priority basis as resources allow. Control of “B” weeds may vary according to ODA-established priorities as well as site-specific or case-by-case factors. When available, biological control may be the primary long-term control strategy. 

 (b) The goal of “B” weed management is control and prevention of new infestations of “B” weeds in Oregon. ODA may advise persons owning or controlling lands upon which “B” weeds are detected on the control of “B” weeds on those lands as well as how to prevent “B” weeds from infesting new lands. As determined by ODA or a county, “B” weeds may be controlled or eradicated in the same manner as “A” weeds when “B” weeds appear in parts of the state where they were not previously detected or established. 

 (c) Pursuant to ODA’s determination as to treatment of “B” weeds, ODA may develop a regional control plan or cooperate with a county, local entity, or persons owning or controlling private lands to develop and implement a plan to control “B” weeds. ODA may assist with implementing control measures. 

 (d) Persons owning or controlling lands where “B” weeds are detected may request assistance from their respective local County Weed Inspector. 

 (e) Cost-share assistance grants may be available for the control of State listed noxious weeds to any person owning or occupying land upon which “A” or “B” weeds are detected. If within a county weed control district or special weed control district the county may provide assistance by applying for cost-share assistance grants. Information on cost-share assistance grants may be found at ODA’s Plant Division website. 

 (f) As determined by ODA, biological control agents may be available for some “B” weeds. Information on the current availability of biological control agents is provided on ODA’s Plant Division website. Releases of some biological control agents targeting noxious weeds may require reporting to ODA for tracking purposes. 

 (g) The following is a list of “B” weeds: 

 (A) Armenian (Himalayan) blackberry — Rubus armeniacus (R. procerus, R. discolor) 

 (B) Biddy-biddy — Acaena novae-zelandiae 

 (C) Broom: 

 (i) French — Genista monspessulana 

 (ii) Portuguese — Cytisus striatus 

 (iii) Scotch — Cytisus scoparius 

 (iv) Spanish — Spartium junceum 

 (D) Butterfly bush — Buddleja davidii (B. variabilis) * (*Plants being sold in Oregon that are labeled “Butterfly Bush” are assumed to be B. davidii and will be subject to a stop sale order. ODA approved sterile varieties of Buddleja that produce less than 2% viable seed and inter-specific hybrids that are not regulated, and may be propagated and sold if labeled with the approved variety name. Information concerning process, criteria and approved seedless varieties is available online at: https://www.oregon.gov/ODA/programs/NurseryChristmasTree/Pages/ButterflyBush.aspx 

 (E) Common bugloss — Anchusa officinalis 

 (F) Common crupina — Crupina vulgaris 

 (G) Common reed — Phragmities australis 

 (H) Common viper’s bugloss — Echium vulgare 

 (I) Cutleaf teasel — Dipsacus laciniatus 

 (J) Dyer’s woad — Isatis tinctoria 

 (K) English hawthorn — Crataegus monogyna 

 (L) Eurasian watermilfoil — Myriophyllum spicatum 

 (M) False brome — Brachypodium sylvaticum 

 (N) Field bindweed — Convolvulus arvensis 

 (O) Garlic mustard — Alliaria petiolat a 

 (P) Geranium: 

 (i) Herb Robert — Geranium robertianum 

 (ii) Shiny leaf — Geranium lucidum 

 (Q) Giant reed — Arundo donax 

 (R) Gorse — Ulex europaeus 

 (S) Halogeton — Halogeton glomeratus 

 (T) Houndstongue — Cynoglossum officinale 

 (U) Indigo bush — Amorpha fruticosa 

 (V) Ivy: 

 (i) Atlantic — Hedera hibernica 

 (ii) English — Hedera helix 

 (W) Jointed goatgrass — Aegilops cylindrica 

 (X) Jubata grass — Cortaderia jubata 

 (Y) Knapweed: 

 (i) Diffuse — Centaurea diffusa 

 (ii) Meadow — Centaurea pratensis 

 (iii) Russian — Acroptilon repens 

 (iv) Spotted — Centaurea stoebe (C. maculosa) 

 (Z) Knotweed: 

 (i) Bohemian — Fallopia x bohemica 

 (ii) Giant — Fallopia sachalinensis (Polygonum) 

 (iii) Himalayan — Polygonum polystachyum 

 (iv) Japanese — Fallopia japonica (Polygonum) 

 (AA) Kochia — Kochia scoparia 

 (BB) Lesser celandine — Ranunculus ficaria 

 (CC) Meadow hawkweed — Hieracium caespitosum 

 (DD) Mediterranean sage — Salvia aethiopis 

 (EE) Medusahead rye — Taeniatherum caput-medusae 

 (FF) Old man’s beard — Clematis vitalba 

 (GG) Parrot feather — Myriophyllum aquaticum 

 (HH) Perennial peavine — Lathyrus latifolius 

 (II) Perennial pepperweed — Lepidium latifolium 

 (JJ) Pheasant’s eye — Adonis aestivalis 

 (KK) Pine echium — Echium pininana  

 (LL) Poison hemlock — Conium maculatum 

 (MM) Policeman’s helmet — Impatiens glandulifera 

 (NN) Primrose-willow: 

 (i) Large-flower — Ludwigia grandiflora ssp. 

 (ii) Water primrose — Ludwigia hexapetala 

 (iii) Floating — Ludwigia peploides 

 (OO) Puncturevine — Tribulus terrestris 

 (PP) Purple loosestrife — Lythrum salicaria 

 (QQ) Ribbongrass — Phalaris arundinacea var. Picta 

 (RR) Rose:         

 (i) Dog — Rosa canina 

 (ii) Sweetbriar — Rosa rubiginosa        

 (SS) Rush skeletonweed — Chondrilla juncea 

 (TT) Saltcedar — Tamarix ramosissima 

 (UU) Small broomrape — Orabanche minor 

 (VV) South American waterweed — Egeria densa (Elodea) 

 (WW) Spanish heath — Erica lusitanica 

 (XX) Spurge laurel — Daphne laureola 

 (YY) Spurge: 

 (i) Leafy — Euphorbia esula 

 (ii) Myrtle — Euphorbia myrsinites 

 (ZZ) St. Johnswort — Hypericum perforatum 

 (AAA) Sulfur cinquefoil — Potentilla recta 

 (BBB) Swainsonpea — Sphaerophysa salsula 

 (CCC) Tansy ragwort — Senecio jacobaea 

 (DDD) Thistle: 

 (i) Bull — Cirsium vulgare 

 (ii) Canada — Cirsium arvense 

 (iii) Italian — Carduus pycnocephalus 

 (iv) Milk — Silybum marianum 

 (v) Musk — Carduus nutans 

 (vi) Scotch — Onopordum acanthium 

 (vii) Slender-flowered — Carduus tenuiflorus 

 (EEE) Toadflax: 

 (i) Dalmatian — Linaria dalmatica 

 (ii) Yellow — Linaria vulgaris 

 (FFF) Tree of heaven — Ailanthus altissima 

 (GGG) Ventenata grass — Ventenata dubia 

 (HHH) Whitetop: 

 (i) Hairy — Lepidium pubescens 

 (ii) Lens-podded — Lepidium chalepensis 

 (iii) Whitetop (hoary cress) — Lepidium draba 

 (III) Yellow archangel — Lamiastrum galeobdolon 

 (JJJ) Yellow flag iris — Iris pseudacorus 

 (KKK) Yellow nutsedge — Cyperus esculentus 

 (LLL) Yellow starthistle — Centaurea solstitialis 

 (6) Exemptions 

 (a) Agricultural seed as defined in Oregon's Seed Law, ORS 633.511 to 633.750, is exempt from this quarantine but subject to the noxious weed seed tolerances in OAR 603-056-0205. 

 (b) Other commodities, such as, but not limited to, wheat are exempt from this quarantine to the extent that they are contaminated with noxious weed seed. 

 (7) Prohibited and Permitted Acts 

 (a) All plants covered in section (3) of this rule are prohibited entry into the State of Oregon. 

 (b) All plants listed in section (3) of this rule are prohibited from transport, purchase, sale or offering for sale in the State of Oregon. 

 (c) All plants listed in section (3) of this rule are prohibited from being propagated in the State of Oregon. 

 (d) All plants listed in section (3) may be collected from the wild in areas that are already infested with the specific species that is collected, provided that the plants, plant parts, or seed are not used for propagation or sale within the State of Oregon. 

 (8) Disposition of Plants in Violation of the Quarantine. All covered plants listed in section (3) of this rule are found to be in violation of this quarantine shall be returned immediately to point of origin by the Oregon receiver, if from out of state, or at the owner's option be destroyed under the supervision of ODA, without expense to or indemnity paid by ODA. 

 (9) Exceptions. The director may issue a permit allowing entry into this state, propagation, or research on plants covered by this rule, upon request, and upon investigation and finding that unusual circumstances exist justifying such action, and that the benefits of granting the permit outweigh the potential harm that may result from the requested action. The director may impose specific conditions on any permit issued hereunder, and the permit may be canceled for failure to meet the conditions therein. Any permit issued under this section shall be for a limited duration not to exceed one year. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561.510, 569 & ORS 561.190 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 561.510 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 21-2024, amend filed 10/01/2024, effective 10/01/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 21-2019, amend filed 10/16/2019, effective 10/16/2019 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 16-2016, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 3-2014, f. & cert. ef. 2-20-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 3-2013, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-13 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 17-2011, f. & cert. ef. 9-29-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 6-2010, f. & cert. ef. 2-4-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 11-2008, f. & cert. ef. 3-7-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 2-2007, f. & cert. ef. 1-30-07 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 27-2004, f. & cert. ef. 12-28-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 26-2002, f. & cert. ef. 12-10-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 7-2002, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 13-2000, f. & cert. ef. 5-8-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 5-1999, f. & cert. ef. 4-5-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
