



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 507 UMATILLA BASIN PROGRAM 
 690-507-0785 
 Stage Gulch CGWA: Flow Meter Specifications and Installation Guidelines 
 
 (1) A flow meter shall meet the following specifications:  (a) A flow meter shall be of the velocity-propeller type or shunt line venturi type with enclosed propeller made of non-corrosive materials. Other types of flow meters may be used with the written approval of the Water Resources Director;  (b) A flow meter shall have a rated accuracy of plus or minus two percent of actual flow for all rates of flow within the range of flow for which the meter is designed. The flow meter shall register the full range of discharge from the source of water for which it is to be used;  (c) The register head of the flow meter shall have a visual, recording, mechanical, digital totalizer located on or adjacent to the flow meter and shall be equipped with a test sweep hand so that flow rate can be quickly determined. The register face shall be protected by a suitable plate or cover;  (d) Units of water measurement shall be in acre-feet, cubit feet, or gallons. The totalizer shall read directly in the above-described units. Flow meters recording in acre-feet shall read to the nearest 1/10th acre-foot, and the decimal multiplier shall be clearly indicated on the face of the register head;  (e) The totalizing part of the flow meter shall have a sufficient capacity to record the quantity of water authorized to be pumped over a period of two (2) years;  (f) Both the register and the flow meter unit shall be provided with a method of sealing with a wire or lead seal to prevent unauthorized tampering with the placement or position of the flow meter.  (2) The flow meter installation shall be as follows:  (a) The flow meter shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and in such a manner that there shall be a full pipe of water at all times during which water is being pumped;  (b) There shall be no turnouts or diversions between the source of water and the flow meter installation;  (c) The flow meter shall be placed in the pipe not less than five pipe diameters downstream from any valve, elbow, or other obstruction which might create turbulent flow, or install straightening vanes as recommended by the flow meter manufacturer. There shall also be at least one pipe diameter of unobstructed flow on the downstream side of the flow meter;  (d) All in-line saddle flow meters equipped with U-bolt fasteners shall be provided with a sealing wire and lead seal near the terminal ends of the U-bolt following the complete installation of the flow meter;  (e) Except for wells authorized for municipal use, the flow meter and register shall not be locked in a building which would prevent access to the register. The register or flow meter shelter may be equipped with a lock to prevent tampering or breakage, provided that a lock is used and for which that watermaster has a key;  (f) The flow meter installation is subject to inspection and approval by the Director;  (g) In the case of artesian wells which flow at various times, the flow meter shall be installed in a manner which will measure both pumped and flowing discharges.  (3) Flow meters shall be kept clear of debris or other foreign or vegetative growth which could impede their operation. All flow meters shall be lubricated as specified by the manufacturer. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.900 - 536.935 & 537.505 - 537.745 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 6-1991, f. & cert. ef. 6-14-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
