



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Chapter 407 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 120 PROVIDER RULES 
 407-120-0120 
 Registration Process — EDI Transactions 
 
 (1) The EDI transaction process is preferred by providers, PHPs, and allied agencies for conducting batch or real time transactions, rather than the individual data entry process used for DDE. EDI registration is an administrative process governed by these rules. The EDI registration process begins with the submission of a TPA by a provider, PHP, clinic, or allied agency, including all requirements and documentation required by these rules.  (2) Trading partners must be Department providers, PHPs, clinics, or allied agencies with a current Department contract. The Department will not accept a TPA from individuals or entities who do not have a current contract with the Department.  (a) The Department may receive and hold the TPA for individuals or entities that have submitted a provider enrollment agreement or other pending contract, subject to the satisfactory execution of the pending document.  (b) Termination, revocation, suspension, or expiration of the contract will result in the concurrent termination, revocation, suspension, or expiration of the TPA without any additional notice; except that the TPA will remain in effect to the extent necessary for a trading partner or the Department to complete obligations involving EDI under the contract for dates of service when the contract was in effect. Contracts that are periodically renewed or extended do not require renewal or extension of the TPA unless there is a lapse of time between contracts.  (c) Failure to identify a current Department contract during the registration process will result in a rejection of the TPA. The Department will verify that the contract numbers identified by a provider, PHP, clinic, or allied agency are current contracts.  (d) If contract number or contract status changes, the trading partner must provide the Department with updated information within five business days of the change in contract status. If the Department determines that a valid contract no longer exists, the Department shall discontinue EDI transactions applicable for any time period in which the contract no longer exists; except that the TPA will remain in effect to the extent necessary for the trading partner or the Department to complete obligations involving EDI under the contract for dates of service when the contract was in effect.  (3) Trading Partner Agreement. To register as a trading partner with the Department, a provider, PHP, clinic, or allied agency must submit a signed TPA to the Department.  (4) Application for Authorization. In addition to the requirements of section (3) of this rule, a trading partner must submit an application for authorization to the Department. The application provides specific identification and legal authorization from the trading partner for an EDI submitter to conduct EDI transactions on behalf of a trading partner.  (5) Trading Partner Agents. A trading partner may use agents to facilitate the electronic transmission of data. If a trading partner will be using an agent as an EDI submitter, the application for authorization required under section (4) of this rule must identify and authorize an EDI submitter and must include the EDI certification signed by an EDI submitter before the Department may accept electronic submission from or send electronic transmission to an EDI submitter.  (6) EDI Registration. In addition to the requirements of section (3) of this rule, a trading partner must also submit its EDI registration form. This form requires the trading partner or its authorized EDI submitter to register an EDI submitter and the name and type of EDI transaction they are prepared to conduct. Signature of the trading partner or authorized EDI submitter is required on the EDI registration form. The registration form will also permit the trading partner to identify the individuals or EDI submitters who are authorized to submit or receive EDI registered transactions.  (7) Review and Acceptance Process. The Department will review the documentation provided to determine compliance with sections (1) through (6) of this rule. The information provided may be subject to verification by the Department. When the Department determines that the information complies with these rules, the Department will notify the trading partner and EDI submitter by email about any testing or other requirements applicable to place the registered transaction into a production environment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050 & 414.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 410-001-0120, DHSD 1-2008, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DMAP 30-2007(Temp), f. 12-31-07, cert. ef. 1-1-08 thru 6-28-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 55-2003, f. & cert. ef. 8-22-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 25-2003(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 3-21-03 thru 9-8-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
