



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS 
 734-024-0030 
 Environmental Performance Standards 
 
 Environmental performance standards implement the Environmental Guiding Principles at the project design and construction phases of project development.  (1) When considering incorporation of environmental performance standards into the design and construction of state highway construction projects, the Department must consider:  (a) Environmental performance standards from current Department manuals and policies, as well as from applicable state and federal regulatory requirements.  (b) Incorporating environmental performance standards into construction specifications and special provisions.  (c) Design exception criteria to specific environmental performance standards as specified by current Department manuals and policies and state and federal regulatory requirements.  (2) The Director may designate committees to provide direction and oversight to environmental performance standards development, implementation, and modification.  (a) These designated committees may establish collaborative working groups to develop environmental performance standards. The working groups may be composed of internal Department stakeholders and external stakeholders.  (b) The working groups must use Department approved protocols and criteria for adoption and amendment of environmental performance standards or develop new protocols and criteria subject to the direction and oversight of the designated committees.  (3) For efficient consideration of environmental performance standards in the design and construction of state highway construction projects, the Department may use existing planning and project development processes or develop new processes as necessary.  (4) Department project teams for state highway construction projects must implement and document incorporation of Environmental Guiding Principles and applicable environmental performance standards at appropriate milestones in the project development and delivery process.  (5) Local government highway construction projects funded by the Department must implement and document incorporation of Environmental Guiding Principles and applicable environmental performance standards from current Department manuals and policies at appropriate milestones in the project development and delivery process. This requirement will be incorporated into local agency agreements.  (6) The Department must develop and publish periodic progress reports on Department and local government performance for incorporation of environmental performance standards in the design and construction of state highway construction projects and local government highway construction projects funded by the Department. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619, OL 2009, Ch. 865 & sec 18 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OL 2009, Ch. 865 & sec 18 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 4-2011, f. & cert. ef. 5-27-11 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
