



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bureau of Labor and Industries 
 Chapter 839 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 RULES REGULATING LABOR CONTRACTORS 
 839-015-0525 
 Immediate Suspension or Refusal to Renew a License; Notice of Opportunity for Hearing; Service
 
 
 (1) If the Bureau finds there is a serious danger to the public health or safety, it may immediately suspend or it may refuse to renew a license. For purposes of this rule, such a decision is referred to as an emergency suspension order. An emergency suspension order is a written order which is not a final order under ORS Chapter 183. An emergency suspension order is not an order in a contested case and may be issued without notice or an opportunity for a hearing as required for contested cases under ORS Chapter 183. 

 (2)(a) Except where the danger to the public health or safety is so imminent that opportunity for the licensee to object under section (3) of this rule is not practicable as determined by the Bureau, the Bureau shall provide the licensee with notice and opportunity to object prior to issuing the emergency suspension order. For purposes of this rule, this notice is referred to as a presuspension notice; 

 (b) The presuspension notice shall: 

 (A) Specify the acts of the licensee and the evidence available to the Bureau which would be grounds for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew the license under the Bureau's usual procedures; 

 (B) Specify the reasons why the acts of the licensee seriously endanger the public health or safety; 

 (C) Identify a person in the Bureau authorized to issue the emergency suspension order or to make recommendations regarding the issuance of the emergency suspension order. 

 (c) The Bureau may provide the presuspension notice to the licensee in writing, orally by telephone or in person, or by any other means available to the Bureau; 

 (d) Where the presuspension notice is given orally, the Bureau subsequently shall provide the licensee with a written copy of the notice. 

 (3) Following the presuspension notice, the Bureau shall provide the licensee an immediate opportunity to object to the Bureau's specifications provided in the presuspension notice before a person authorized to issue the emergency suspension order or to make recommendations regarding the issuance of the emergency suspension order. 

 (4)(a) When the Bureau issues the emergency suspension order, the Bureau shall serve the order on the licensee either personally or by registered or certified mail; and 

 (b) The order shall include the following statements: 

 (A) Those required under ORS 183.415(2) and (3); 

 (B) That the licensee has the right to demand a hearing to be held as soon as practicable to contest the emergency suspension order; 

 (C) That if the demand is not received by the agency within 90 days of the date of notice of the emergency suspension order the licensee shall have waived its right to a hearing under ORS Chapter 183; 

 (D) The effective date of the emergency suspension order; 

 (E) The specifications noted in subsection (2)(b) of this rule; 

 (F) That with the agreement of the licensee and the Bureau the hearing opportunity on the emergency suspension order may be combined with any other Bureau proceeding affecting the license. The procedures for a combined proceeding shall be those applicable to the other proceeding affecting the license. 

 (c) The commissioner shall include the name of the labor contractor on a list that is readily available to the public. 

 (5)(a) If timely requested by the licensee pursuant to subsection (4)(b) of this rule, the Bureau shall hold a hearing on the emergency suspension order as soon as practicable; and 

 (b) At the hearing, the Bureau shall consider the facts and circumstances including, but not limited to: 

 (A) Whether at the time of issuance of the order there was probable cause to believe from the evidence available to the Bureau that there were grounds for revocations, suspension or refusal to renew the license under the Bureau's usual procedures; 

 (B) Whether the acts or omissions of the licensee pose a serious danger to the public's health or safety; 

 (C) Whether circumstances at the time of the hearing justify confirmation, alteration or revocation of the order; 

 (D) Whether the Bureau followed the appropriate procedures in issuing the emergency suspension order. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 164, ORS 165, ORS 651 & ORS 658 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BLI 4-2017, amend filed 11/30/2017, effective 01/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BL 3-1990, f. & cert. ef. 3-1-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BL 16-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-13-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
