



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Home Care Commission - Chapter 418 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 HOMECARE CHOICE PROGRAM 
 418-040-0030 
 Services 
 
 (1) Services available through the Homecare Choice Program are intended to support a participant in the participant's home and in the community. Services are identified by the participant through a self-assessment developed by the Oregon Home Care Commission.  (2) The program is responsible to review the results of an individual's self- assessment with the participant or the participant's representative and provide information about the scope of services offered through the program, the long-term care services and supports not available through the program, and other community resources that are available to individuals seeking long-term care services and supports.  (3) The service plan is determined by the participant based on the participant's self-assessment and the participant or the participant's representative determines the number of purchased service hours per service period.  (4) Services are performed by providers enrolled in the Homecare Choice Program based on the service plan. Providers are selected by the participant from the Oregon Home Care Commission's Registry.  (5) Services available through the Homecare Choice Program include assistance with:  (a) Activities of Daily Living (ADLs).  (b) Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADLs).  (c) Pet care.  (d) Companionship.  (e) Relief Care.  (6) Assistance with tasks related to the following activities are not available through the Homecare Choice Program:  (a) Case management. Case management means an ongoing process that includes:  (A) Assessing a participant's service needs.  (B) Evaluating the options and services required to meet the participant's needs.  (C) Developing and implementing a service plan.  (D) Coordinating services and referrals.  (E) Conducting risk assessments.  (F) Monitoring.  (b) Chore services and yard work.  (A) Chore services are services intended to ensure the individual's home is safe and allows for independent living.  (B) Chore services include:  (i) Heavy housecleaning;  (ii) Removal of hazardous debris or dirt from the home or yard; and  (iii) Moving heavy furniture.  (c) Home adaptations or modifications.  (d) Money management.  (e) Moving.  (f) Medical and nursing services.  (g) Purchasing services and supplies, such as home delivered meals, emergency response systems, adaptive equipment, and personal protective equipment. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.602 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.595-625 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HCC 1-2016, f. 6-13-16, cert. ef. 6-20-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HCC 1-2015(Temp), f. 12-31-15, cert. ef. 1-1-16 thru 6-28-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
