



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Workers' Compensation Division - Chapter 436 
 
 
 
 
 Division 35 DISABILITY RATING STANDARDS 
 436-035-0015 
 Offsetting Prior Awards 
 
 If a worker has a prior award of permanent disability under Oregon Workers’ Compensation Law, the award is considered in subsequent claims under ORS 656.222 and 656.214.  (1) A prior award can be used to offset an award for a subsequent claim when all the following are true:  (a) The prior claim is closed under Oregon Workers’ Compensation Law;  (b) The prior claim has an award of permanent disability;  (c) The disability in the prior claim has not fully dissipated as outlined in section (2) of this rule; and  (d) Both claims have similar disabilities as outlined in sections (3) and (4) of this rule.  (2) A disability from a prior claim is considered to have fully dissipated if there is not a preponderance of medical evidence or opinion establishing that disability from the prior injury or disease was still present on the date of the injury or disease of the claim being determined. If disability from the prior injury or disease was not still present, an offset is not applied.  (3) The following are considered when determining what impairment findings can be offset from a prior claim:  (a) Only identical impairment findings of like body parts or systems are to be offset (e.g., left leg sensation loss to left leg sensation loss, chronic low back to chronic low back, psychological to psychological, etc.).  (b) A more distal body part impairment finding may be offset against a more proximal body part impairment finding (or vice versa) if there is a combined effect of impairment (e.g., a right forearm impairment finding may be offset against a right arm impairment finding).  (c) Irreversible findings and surgical values are not offset.  (4) The following are considered when determining what disability findings can be offset from a prior claim:  (a) When a worker successfully returns to work in a position requiring greater physical capacity than the RFC established at the time of claim closure in a prior claim, an offset is not applied. The BFC for the current claim closure is established under OAR 436-035-0012, without offsetting the RFC from the prior claim.  (b) The social-vocational factors of age and education (including SVP) are not offset, but are redetermined as of the date of issuance.  (5) The following are considered when calculating the current disability award and applying an offset:  (a) The worker’s loss of use or function or loss of earning capacity for the current disability under the standards;  (b) The conditions or findings of impairment from the prior awards which were still present just prior to the current claim;  (c) The worker’s adaptability factors which were still present just prior to the current claim, if appropriate; and  (d) The combined effect of the prior and current injuries (the overall disability to a given body part), including the extent to which the current loss of use or function or loss of earning capacity (impairment and social-vocational factors) from a prior injury or disease was still present at the time of the current injury or disease. After considering and comparing the claims, any award of compensation in the current claim for loss of use or function or loss of earning capacity caused by the current injury or disease (which did not exist at the time of the current injury or disease and for which the worker was not previously compensated) is granted.  (e) When there is measurable impairment in the current claim and the worker has not returned to regular work but the offset applied reduces the impairment award to zero, the worker is entitled to a work disability award. The work disability calculation must include the percentage of measurable impairment from the current claim. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 656.726 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 656.005, 656.214, 656.222, 656.268 & 656.726 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 2-2010, f. 5-5-10, cert. ef. 6-1-10 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 WCD 9-2004, f. 10-26-04, cert. ef. 1-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
