



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 314 INCOME TAXATION GENERALLY  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 150-314-0367 
 Taxable in Another State; When a Taxpayer is “Subject To” Tax Under ORS 314.620(1) 
 
 (1) A taxpayer is “subject to” one of the taxes specified in ORS 314.620(1) only if it carries on business activity in such state and such state imposes such a tax thereon. Any taxpayer which asserts that it is subject to one of the taxes specified in ORS 314.620(1) in another state shall furnish to the Department upon its request evidence to support such assertion. The Department may request that such evidence include proof that the taxpayer has filed the requisite tax return in such other state and has paid any taxes imposed under the law of such other state; the taxpayer’s failure to produce such proof may be taken into account in determining whether the taxpayer in fact is subject to one of the taxes specified in ORS 314.620(1) in such other state. If the taxpayer voluntarily files and pays one or more of such taxes when not required to do so by the laws of that state or pays a minimal fee for qualification, organization or for the privilege of doing business in that state, but (a) does not actually engage in business activity in that state, or (b) does actually engage in some business activity, not sufficient for nexus, and the minimum tax bears no relation to the taxpayer’s business activity within such state, the taxpayer is not “subject to” one of the taxes specified within the meaning of ORS 314.620(1).  Example: State A has a corporation franchise tax measured by net income, for the privilege of doing business in that state. Corporation X files a return and pays the $50 minimum tax, although it carries on no activity in State A. Corporation X is not “taxable” in State A.  (2) The concept of taxability in another state is based upon the promise that every state in which the taxpayer is engaged in business activity may impose an income tax even though every state does not do so. In states which do not, other types of taxes may be imposed as a substitute for an income tax. Therefore, only those taxes enumerated in ORS 314.620(1) which may be considered as basically revenue raising rather than regulatory measures shall be considered in determining whether the taxpayer is “subject to” one of the taxes specified in ORS 314.620(1) in another state.  Example (i): State A requires all nonresident corporations which qualify or register in State A to pay to the Secretary of State an annual license fee or tax for the privilege of doing business in the state regardless of whether the privilege is in fact exercised. The amount paid is determined according to the total authorized capital stock of the corporation; the rates are progressively higher by bracketed amounts. The statute sets a minimum fee of $50 and a maximum fee of $500. Failure to pay the tax bars a corporation from utilizing the state courts for enforcement of its rights. State A also imposes a corporation income tax. Nonresident Corporation X is qualified in State A and pays the required fee to the Secretary of State but does not carry on any business activity in State A (although it may utilize the courts of State A). Corporation X is not “taxable” in State A.  Example (ii): Same facts as Example (i) except that Corporation X is subject to and pays the corporation income tax. Payment is prima facie evidence that Corporation X is “subject to” the net income tax of State A and is “taxable” in State A.  Example (iii): State B requires all nonresident corporations qualified or registered in State B to pay to the Secretary of State an annual permit fee or tax for doing business in the state. The base of the fee or tax is the sum of (1) outstanding capital stock, and (2) surplus and undivided profits. The fee or tax base attributable to State B is determined by a three factor apportionment formula. Nonresident Corporation X which operates a plant in State B, pays the required fee or tax to the Secretary of State. Corporation X is “taxable” in State B.  Example (iv): State A has a corporation franchise tax measured by net income for the privilege of doing business in that state. Corporation X files a return based upon its business activity in the state but the amount of computed liability is less than the minimum tax. Corporation X pays the minimum tax. Corporation X is subject to State A’s corporation franchise tax. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 314.620 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-314.620-(B), REV 35-2016, f. 8-12-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 

 
 
 8-73 
11-71 
12-70
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
