



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 385 DISTRICT WATER RIGHT TRANSFERS 
 690-385-3150 
 Temporary Change from Surface Water Point of Diversion to Ground Water Appropriation 
 
 (1) A district may, in accordance with the standards established by ORS 540.531(2), apply to transfer a point of diversion to allow the appropriation of groundwater. An application for such a transfer is subject to the requirements under section (2) of this rule.  (2) The Department may allow the transfer of the point of diversion under section (1) of this rule if the district temporary transfer application demonstrates:  (a) The new point of diversion appropriates groundwater from an unconfined aquifer that is hydraulically connected to the authorized surface source;  (b) The use of water at the proposed point of diversion will affect the surface water source similarly to the authorized point of diversion specified in the water use subject to transfer; and  (c) The withdrawal of groundwater at the new point of diversion is located within 500 feet of the surface water source and, when the surface water source is a stream, is also located within 1000 feet upstream or downstream of the original point of diversion as specified in the water use subject to transfer; or  (d) If the distance requirements in subsection (2)(d) of this rule are not met, the holder of a water use subject to transfer shall submit to the Department evidence prepared by a licensed geologist that demonstrates that the use of the groundwater at the new point of diversion will meet the criteria set forth is subsections (2)(a) to (c) of this rule.  (3) A transfer application requesting to change the point of diversion from a surface water diversion to a groundwater appropriation for which evidence prepared by a licensed geologist is required under subsection (2)(e) of this rule shall be evaluated by the Department in the following manner:  (a) The change in point of diversion request shall be examined to determine the potential for injury as if the change is to be from the authorized point of diversion to a point on the stream nearest the proposed well;  (b) If potential injury is not found, the evidence prepared by a licensed geologist and submitted by the applicant shall be evaluated to determine whether the application meets the other requirements of subsection (2)(a) to (c) of this rule. The geologist's report shall examine the effect on the surface water source in the vicinity of the point on the stream nearest the proposed new point of diversion.  (4) The new point of diversion shall retain the original date of priority and all other applicable conditions and restrictions that existed at the original point of diversion shall apply at the new point of diversion authorized under the transfer.  (5) If after approving an application under this rule, the Department finds that the transfer results in substantial or undue interference with an existing ground water right that would not have occurred in the absence of the transfer, the new point of diversion shall be subordinate to the existing right injured by the transfer. This section applies only to wells with rights existing at the time the transfer was approved.  (6) The original point of diversion of surface water shall not be retained as an additional or supplemental point of diversion.  (7) For any transfer allowed under sections (1) to (5) of this rule, the Department shall require mitigation measures to prevent depletion from any surface water source not specified in the permit or certificated or decreed water right pursuant to ORS 540.531(6).  (8) As used in this rule:  (a) "Existing ground water right" means a right that existed at the time a transfer was approved under sections (1) to (5) of this rule and does not include a right established after the transfer whether by permit or a change in point of appropriation regardless of priority date.  (b) "Similarly" means that the use of groundwater at the new point of diversion affects only the surface water source specified in the permit or certificated or decreed water right and would result in stream depletion of at least 50 percent of the rate of appropriation within 10 days of continuous pumping.  (c) "Unconfined aquifer" means an aquifer in which the pressure at the upper surface of saturation is equal to atmospheric pressure. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 536.025 & 536.027 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540.570 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 9-2004, f. & cert. ef. 11-16-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
