



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 NURSING FACILITIES/LICENSING - VENTILATOR ASSISTED PROGRAM (VAP) 
 411-090-0170 
 Staff Training 
 
 (1) STAFF TRAINING. The facility must provide residents with trained staff who have been instructed in invasive mechanical ventilation services and have ongoing training. 

 (2) The administrator of the facility must complete and document an additional six hours of their required annual continuing educational requirements, related to the care of individuals who are dependent on an invasive mechanical ventilation as a means of life support. Continuing education credits must be documented and may include: 

 (a) College courses. 

 (b) Preceptor credits. 

 (c) Self-directed activities. 

 (d) Course instructor credits. 

 (e) Corporate training. 

 (f) In-service training. 

 (g) Professional association trainings. 

 (h) Web-based trainings. 

 (i) Correspondence courses, 

 (j) Tele-courses 

 (k) Seminars. 

 (l) Workshops. 

 (3) Except in an emergency situation, and as defined in 411-090-0110, staff caring for Ventilator Assisted Program residents must complete eight hours of pre-service training in the care of ventilator dependent individuals. 

 (a) The training must be conducted by a registered respiratory therapist, who has at least one year of experience in the care of ventilator dependent individuals. 

 (b) These training requirements are in addition to the facility licensing requirements for training. 

 (c) Documentation of this training shall include: 

 (A) Name and qualification of the trainer. 

 (B) Date of the training. 

 (C) Duration and content of the training. 

 (D) Signature and position of all participants. 

 (4) In addition to the pre-service training described in this rule, staff caring for Ventilator Assisted Program residents must complete eight hours of annual in-service training in the care of ventilator dependent individuals. 

 (5) Unless an exception is granted, the Ventilator Assisted Program Director shall have at least three years of direct care experience and knowledge in the care of ventilator dependent individuals. 

 (6) The Ventilator Assisted Program Licensed Respiratory Therapy Trainer shall have at least three years of direct care experience and knowledge in the care of ventilator dependent individuals, and one year of experience in training. 

 (7) Pre-service and annual in-service training may include various methods of instruction, including, but not limited to classroom style, web-based training, videos, or one-on-one training. 

 (a) The facility must have a method for determining and documenting each staff person's knowledge and understanding of the training provided. 

 (b) All training must be documented, and documentation maintained and provided to the Department when requested. 

 (8) The qualified Ventilator Assisted Program Licensed Respiratory Therapist Trainer shall provide pre-service training for the licensed staff, and basic training for all others responsible for care and ancillary services within the Ventilator Assisted Program designated area before the facility admits its first resident dependent on invasive mechanical ventilation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 441.055, 441.615 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 409.050, 410.070, 441.055, 441.615 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 9-2019, adopt filed 01/31/2019, effective 02/01/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
