



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Board of Naturopathic Medicine 
 Chapter 850 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
 850-040-0240 
 One-time Continuing Education Required Prior to Administering Injection and IV Therapy, and Provider Requirements 
 
 
 (1) Lower Body and Lower Body Extremity Injections: Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in tendons, ligament, and extremity injections:   

 (a) Four (4) hours didactic education in diagnosis, natural history of conditions, care management, selection of image guidance, and interventional technique regarding lower body and/ or lower body extremities. 

 (b) Ten (10) hours practical education including supervised delivery of therapy to appropriate target of the lower body and/ or lower body extremities 

 (2) Upper Body and Upper Body Extremity Injections: Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in tendons, ligament, and extremity injections. 

 (a) Four (4) hours of didactic education in diagnosis, natural history of conditions, care management, selection of image guidance, and interventional technique regarding upper body and/ or upper body extremities. 

 (b) Ten (10) hours practical education including supervised delivery of therapy to appropriate target of the upper body and/ or upper body extremities. 

 (3) Peri-Spinal Injections:  Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in spinal injections 

 (a) Proof of completed approved education in sections 1 and 2 of this rule. 

 (b) Four (4) hours of didactic education in diagnosis, natural history of conditions, care management, selection of image guidance, and interventional technique regarding spinal injections. 

 (c) Twelve (12) hours practical education including supervised delivery of therapy to appropriate spinal targets. 

 (4) Injection Therapy of Autologous Injectate: Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in autologous injections. 

 (a) Eight (8) hours of Board approved education per autologous injectate, focused on autologous acquisition, injectate processing, sterile technique, and safety. 

 (b) Licensee shall only administer Injection Therapy of Autologous Injectate that corresponds to the completion of Board approved training per injection site, section(s) 1-3; 

 (5) Ozone Injection Therapy:  Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in Ozone injection therapy: 

 (a) Four (4) hours of Board approved didactic education focused on Ozone injection therapy 

 (b) Licensee shall only administer Ozone Injection Therapy that corresponds to the completion of Board approved training per injection site, section(s) 1-3; 

 (6) IV Therapy: Passage of Parenteral Medicine NPLEX elective exam, 

 (7) Chelation IV Therapy: Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in Chelation IV Therapy. 

 (a) Passage of Parenteral Medicine NPLEX elective exam, 

 (b) Eight (8) hours of Board approved education in Chelation IV Therapy. 

 (8) Ozone IV Therapy: Following education must be provided by a Naturopathic Physician, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or faculty of an accredited medical or naturopathic school or college, with five or more years of experience in Ozone IV Therapy. 

 (a) Passage of Parenteral Medicine NPLEX elective exam 

 (b) Sixteen (16) hours of Board approved IV Ozone Therapy 

 (9) Active Oregon license to practice Naturopathic Medicine is required prior to administering the following: 

 (a) Subcutaneous, Intramuscular, Intravenous Injections of Compounded, Manufactured, Injectable Grade Injectate that are medical in nature: 

 (b) All therapies listed in section 1-8 of this rule. 

   

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 685.125 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 685.102 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBNM 6-2024, amend filed 10/29/2024, effective 01/01/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OBNM 5-2022, amend filed 08/11/2022, effective 08/11/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BNE 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 10-13-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
