



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Environmental Quality 
 Chapter 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 258 MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL SPECIFICATIONS 
 340-258-0210 
 Oxygenated Gasoline: Recordkeeping 
 
 (1) All persons in the gasoline distribution network shall maintain records containing the applicable compliance information described in this rule. The records must be kept by the regulated persons for at least two years:  (2) Refiners and importers shall, for each separate quantity of gasoline produced or imported for use in a control area during the control period, maintain records containing results of any tests needed to determine the types of oxygenates and percentage by volume:  (a) Oxygenate type;  (b) Oxygenate content by volume;  (c) Oxygen content by weight;  (d) Total volume; and  (e) Name and address of the party to whom each separate quantity of gasoline was sold or transferred.  (3) A person who owns, leases, operates or controls a gasoline terminal that serves a control area shall maintain records containing:  (a) The name and address of the owner of each batch of gasoline handled during the control period;  (b) The volume of each batch or truck load of gasoline going into or out of the terminal;  (c) The RWOC of all batches or truck loads of gasoline leaving the terminal;  (d) The type of oxygenate, purity and percentage by volume if available;  (e) The oxygen content by weight of all batches or truck loads received at the terminal;  (f) Information of each tank truck sale or batch of gasoline, as to whether it was designated for use within a control area or not;  (g) The name and address of the person to whom the gasoline was sold or transferred and the date of the sale or transfer; and  (h) Results of the tests for oxygenates, if performed, of each sale or transfer and who performed the tests.  (4) CARs and blender CARs must maintain records containing the information listed in section (3) of this rule, plus the following information:  (a) CAR or blender CAR identification number;  (b) Records supporting and demonstrating compliance with the Per Gallon Oxygen Content Standard listed in OAR 340-258-0140; or  (c) Records supporting and demonstrating compliance with the Average Oxygen Content Standard listed in OAR 340-258-0150:  (A) For any credits bought, sold, traded or transferred, the date of each transaction, the name, address and CAR or blender CAR number of the CAR or blender CAR involved in each transaction, and the amount of credit units (oxygen content and volume of gasoline) transferred; credit units transferred must be accompanied by a demonstration of how those credits were calculated, including adequate documentation that both parties have agreed to all credit transactions;  (B) The name and address of the auditor, and the results of the attest engagement conducted under OAR 340-258-0290;  (C) The name and address of the person from whom each shipment of gasoline was received, and the date when it was received;  (D) Data on each shipment of gasoline received, including:  (i) The volume of each shipment;  (ii) The type of oxygenate, purity and percentage by volume; and  (iii) Oxygen content by weight.  (E) The volume of each receipt of bulk oxygenates;  (F) The name and address of the persons from whom bulk oxygenates was received;  (G) The date and destination of each sale of gasoline, whether it was intended for use within a control area or not;  (H) Data on each shipment of gasoline sold or dispensed including:  (i) The volume of each shipment;  (ii) The type of oxygenate, purity and percentage by volume; and  (iii) Oxygen content by weight.  (I) Documentation of the results of all required tests done regarding the oxygen content of the gasoline; and  (J) The names, addresses and CAR or blender CAR identification numbers of the persons to whom any gasoline was sold or dispensed, and the dates of each transaction.  (5) Retailers and wholesale purchaser-consumers within a control area shall maintain the following records which shall be available for Department inspection upon request:  (a) The names, addresses and CAR or blender CAR identification number of each person from whom a shipment of gasoline was purchased or received, and the date when each shipment was received; and  (b) Data on each shipment bought, sold or transported including:  (A) The volume of each shipment;  (B) The type of oxygenate, purity and percentage by volume;  (C) Oxygen content by weight. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 468A 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 468A.420 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 14-1999, f. & cert. ef. 10-14-99, Renumbered from 340-022-0550 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 15-1993, f. & cert. ef. 11-4-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 4-1993, f. & cert. ef. 3-10-93 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEQ 25-1992, f. 10-30-92, cert. ef. 11-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
