



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 18 NETWORK OF QUALITY TEACHING AND LEARNING 
 581-018-0440 
 Implementation of Grant Funding: Proficiency-Based Teaching and Learning Grants
 
 
 (1) The Oregon Department of Education shall establish a request for proposal solicitation and approval process to be conducted for the Proficiency-Based Teaching and Learning Grants. All proposals must comply with the requirements of section 1, chapter 661, Oregon Laws 2013 (Enrolled House Bill 3233) and rules adopted to implement that section. 

 (2) The Department may award up to two grants. Each grant shall support one to four demonstration sites within one or more school districts. 

 (3) To receive a grant an applicant must demonstrate a high level of support from school district boards and local education associations in all participating districts. 

 (4) The Department shall determine the amount of each grant based on the funds available for the grants and each grant application. The Department of shall allocate funds for the grant program based on an evaluation of the grant application and whether the applicant has: 

 (a) Demonstrated a focus on district, state, and Common Core standards as the learning targets for which students will be held accountable; 

 (b) Defined levels of proficiency laid out on a learning continuum that is used to identify baseline ability and that reflects a range of continuous learning; 

 (c) Has experience and training expertise in coaching and supporting schools in proficiency or will utilize another entity with this expertise as a sub-contractor and partner; 

 (d) Identified sites in the application that are willing to serve as a demonstration sites for other school districts and a source of evidence of best practices and evidence-based models; and 

 (e) A plan that includes a strong outreach to parent and business communities to insure that those groups understand the shift to standards at a school site and what it means to support students in reaching proficient levels of knowledge and skills. 

 (5) The Department of Education shall allocate funds for the grant program based on the evaluation of the grant application and the following considerations: 

 (a) Geographic location of district to insure geographic diversity within the recipients of grant program funds throughout the state; 

 (b) Districts that have achievement gaps between subgroup populations; and 

 (c) Districts that have a high level of students who are economically disadvantaged. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 342.950 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 342.950 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 78-2019, minor correction filed 08/26/2019, effective 08/26/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 ODE 25-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-24-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
