



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-2260 
 Other Portable Tools and Equipment 
 
 (1) Jacks.  (a) Definitions.  (A) Jack. A jack is an appliance for lifting and lowering or moving horizontally a load by pushing.  (B) Rating. The maximum safe load throughout its course of travel.  (b) Loading and marking.  (A) Do not use a jack with a rating less than the weight of the intended load.  (B) Keep the rated load legibly and permanently marked on the jack.  (c) Operation and maintenance.  (A) If the jack is not on a firm foundation, block its base. If the cap might slip, place a block between it and the load.  (B) Watch the stop indicator and do not go past the limit of travel.  (C) Quickly crib, block or otherwise secure the load after raising it.  NOTE: This does not apply when changing wheels on 4-wheeled vehicles when only one wheel is raised and the employee does not place any part of their body under the vehicle.  (D) Hydraulic jacks exposed to freezing temperatures must contain an adequate antifreeze liquid.  (E) Inspect jacks often enough to assure safe operation but at least:  (i) Once every 6 months for constant or intermittent use; or  (ii) Immediately after an abnormal load or shock.  (F) Mark defective jacks and do not use them until repairs are made.  (2) Abrasive blast cleaning nozzles. Blast cleaning nozzles must have an operating valve that must be held open manually. Provide a support on which the nozzle may rest when it is not in use.  (3) Hand-powered equipment.  (a) Each hand-powered hoist must have an effective brake or equivalent and a ratchet and pawl strong enough to hold the maximum load in any position.  (b) Do not allow hand crank handles to work loose from the drive shaft.  (4) Wheelbarrows, hand trucks, dollies, pallet jacks.  (a) Wheelbarrows, hand trucks, dollies and pallet jacks must be appropriate for the specific work. Do not load them beyond safe capacity. Bodies and frames must be metal or strong wood and able to withstand severe handling and the intended loads.  (b) Keep wheelbarrows, hand trucks, dollies and pallet jacks in good repair.  (c) Do not leave wheelbarrows, hand trucks, dollies, and pallet jacks where they can tip, fall or roll.  (5) Varmint Killers (Explosive Gas and Oxygen) A device for injecting a mix of propane (LPG) and oxygen into ground holes and then igniting it to kill varmints.  NOTE: OAR 437-004-0710 Compressed Gases apply to all cylinders of gas.  (a) Follow all manufacturer instructions for use and maintenance of this equipment or this standard, whichever is safest.  (b) When transporting these devices in vehicles (other than in the field of use), or when done using them for more than one hour, back out the regulator pressure control screws.  (c) Employees under 18 years old may not operate this equipment.  (d) Employers must train all employees to operate this equipment safely and according to the manufacturer’s instructions and these rules.  (e) Operating procedures.  (A) Tanks, valves, couplings, regulators, hose, and apparatus must be free from oily or greasy substances. Do not handle oxygen tanks or apparatus with oily hands or gloves. Never allow a jet of oxygen to strike an oily surface, greasy clothes, or enter a fuel oil or other storage tank.  (B) Handling tanks.  (i) Unless tanks are secured on a special truck, remove regulators and install valve-protection caps, when provided, before moving tanks.  (ii) Close tank valves when work is done.  (iii) Close valves of empty tanks.  (iv) Do not use a hammer or wrench to open tank valves. If opening the valve by hand does not work, check with the supplier.  (v) Do not repair or tamper with tank valves. Notify the supplier if you have trouble with a tank and follow their instructions as to its disposition.  (vi) Do not remove the stem from a diaphragm-type tank.  (C) Attachments and use.  (i) Fuel-gas tanks must have the valve end up when they are in use. Store and ship liquefied gases with the valve end up.  (ii) Before removing a regulator from a tank valve, close the tank valve and release the gas from the regulator.  (iii) Do not use regulators with cracked, broken, or defective parts.  (iv) Before attaching the regulator to a tank, fully release the regulators pressure adjusting screw.  (v) Close the tank valve and release the gas from the regulator before removing it from the tank. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(4) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 9-2006, f. & cert. ef. 9-22-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
