



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Board of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision 
 Chapter 255 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 RELIEF FROM REPORTING AND LEVEL RECLASSIFICATION PETITIONS AND HEARINGS FOR ADULT SEX OFFENDERS 
 255-087-0080 
 Hearing Procedures for Relief and Reclassification 
 
 Hearing Procedures 
(1) At the Board’s discretion, the Board may conduct any hearing in person, by teleconference call, by videoconference, or by any other electronic medium that ensures the registrant, the panel, and other participants the opportunity to hear and be heard. The registrant shall be present in person, by telephone or videoconference, or by any other electronic medium. The registrant must indicate how they will appear and if the registrant has witnesses, how the witnesses will appear. If a registrant refuses or fails to appear at a hearing, the refusal will be considered to be the registrant’s waiver of appearance and the petition will be denied. 
(2) Hearings may be conducted by a panel of one or more Hearings Officers and Board Members at the Board’s discretion. The panel may make the final decision. If the panel is more than two members, the final decision shall be made by a majority of all panel members. In the case of a tie, an additional Board Member may vote administratively after reviewing the material from the hearing. 
(3) The Board will allow at the hearing, evidence of a type that reasonably prudent persons would commonly rely upon in the conduct of serious affairs. The Board may exclude evidence if it is irrelevant or immaterial to the decision to be made at the hearing or is unduly repetitious. At its discretion, the Board may consider relevant material and additional written information and recommendations from those with a special interest in the case. The Board must receive any information submitted pursuant to this section at least 14 days prior to the hearing. The Board may waive the 14 day requirement. 
(4) Conduct of Hearing - The hearing shall be conducted by and under control of the Chair or designated representative. The Board may set reasonable time limits for oral presentation and may exclude or limit cumulative, repetitious, or immaterial matter. The Board may eject any disruptive person from a hearing. The Board may require all persons to leave the designated hearing area during deliberations. 
(5) If during the hearing the Chair or designated representative determines that more time or information is needed, the Board may decide whether to continue the hearing at another time. 
(6) Explicit instructions for the hearing, including answers to frequently asked questions, can be found on the Board website at http://www.oregon.gov/BOPPPS/. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 163A.105, ORS 163A.115, ORS 163A.125 & ORS 144.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 163A.115 & ORS 163A.125 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PAR 7-2018, adopt filed 11/19/2018, effective 12/01/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
