



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Land Conservation and Development Department 
 Chapter 660 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 PUBLIC FACILITIES PLANNING 
 660-011-0065 
 Water Service to Rural Lands 
 
 (1) As used in this rule, unless the context requires otherwise:  (a) “Establishment” means the creation of a new water system and all associated physical components, including systems provided by public or private entities;  (b) “Extension of a water system” means the extension of a pipe, conduit, pipeline, main, or other physical component from or to an existing water system in order to provide service to a use that was not served by the system on the applicable date of this rule, regardless of whether the use is inside the service boundaries of the public or private service provider.  (c) “Water system” shall have the same meaning as provided in Goal 11, and includes all pipe, conduit, pipeline, mains, or other physical components of such a system.  (2) Consistent with Goal 11, local land use regulations applicable to lands that are outside urban growth boundaries and unincorporated community boundaries shall not:  (a) Allow an increase in a base density in a residential zone due to the availability of service from a water system;  (b) Allow a higher density for residential development served by a water system than would be authorized without such service; or  (c) Allow an increase in the allowable density of residential development due to the presence, establishment, or extension of a water system.  (3) Applicable provisions of this rule, rather than conflicting provisions of local acknowledged zoning ordinances, shall immediately apply to local land use decisions filed subsequent to the effective date of this rule.  [ED. NOTE: Goal referenced is available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183 & 197 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 197.712 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LCDD 4-1998, f. & cert. ef. 7-28-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
