



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 85 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REQUIREMENTS 
 860-085-0600 
 Project Application Requirements 
 
 In addition to the information required by ORS 757.539(4)(a)–(k), a Project application must include:  (1) General information:  (a) A description of how the Project satisfies the minimum eligibility criteria described in ORS 757.539(3)(a)–(f);  (b) A discussion of all Project measures being employed to reduce emissions;  (c) The estimated Project measure life;  (d) A description of the Project boundary and scope;  (e) A discussion of the emission reduction strategy used, and why the approach is appropriate, timely, and merits approval; and  (f) Whether the Project is able to generate environmental credits or certificates and any potential revenues associated with their sale or use. The utility must explain the rationale for the proposed treatment of any credits and refer to any appropriate protocols, certification systems, regulatory regimes, or other rules for generating, trading, and retirement of such credits or certificates;  (2) Cost recovery information:  (a) A requested method for cost recovery as described in ORS 757.539(8);  (b) A showing of the Project benefits received and the allocation of benefits for each type of ratepayer. “Project benefits” means those benefits that accrue to ratepayers of the utility when such benefits can reasonably be attributed to the Project;  (c) A description of any requested incentive payments, and requested recovery that complies with OAR 860-085-0750. A utility may propose an incentive structure with its initial Project proposal that can then be applied to subsequently approved Projects; and  (d) Any required tariffs; and  (3) An Emissions Reduction Verification Plan that includes;  (a) The methodology used to calculate the projected emission reductions. The methodology must identify:  (A) A Project baseline; that is, an estimate of the emissions that would occur under the ordinary course of business or set of conditions reasonably expected to occur within the defined boundary and scope of an Emission Reduction Project in the absence of the Emission Reduction Project, taking into account all current laws and regulations, as well as current economic and technological trends;  (B) Emission leakage and Project emissions, which must be deducted from the emission reductions generated by the Project activity. “Emission leakage” means a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the Project that is offset by an increase in greenhouse gas emissions outside the Project. “Project emissions” means any emissions attributable to the implementation of an Emission Reduction Project; and  (C) How the emission reduction verification methodology was developed; and  (b) A plan for monitoring emission reductions, including the ongoing collection and retention of data for determining the Project baseline, Project emissions, and emissions reductions that are attributable to the Project. With the plan, the utility must describe the methods and equipment used, and identify the anticipated costs of monitoring and verifying emission reductions. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS Ch. 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.539 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 8-2014, f. & cert. ef. 12-3-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
