



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 145 RULES GOVERNING THE MANAGEMENT OF STATE-OWNED SUBMERGED AND SUBMERSIBLE LAND SUBJECT TO REMEDIATION AND HABITAT RESTORATION ACTIVITIES 
 141-145-0010 
 General Provisions 
 
 (1) All tidally influenced and title navigable waterways (referred to as state-owned submerged and submersible land) have been placed by the Oregon State Legislature under the jurisdiction of the State Land Board and the Department, as the administrative arm of the State Land Board.  (2) The State Land Board, through the Department, has a constitutional responsibility to manage "the lands under its jurisdiction with the object of obtaining the greatest benefit for the people of this state, consistent with the conservation of this resource under sound techniques of land management" pursuant to Article 8, Section 5(2) of the Oregon Constitution. This responsibility requires that the Department receives fair compensation for the use or disposal of state-owned land managed by the Department.  (3) State-owned submerged and submersible land is managed to ensure the collective rights of the public, including riparian owners, to fully use and enjoy this resource for commerce, navigation, fishing, recreation and other public trust values. These rights are collectively referred to as “public trust rights.”  (4) No person is allowed to place a structure on, or make use of state-owned submerged and submersible land, regardless of the length of time the structure may have existed on, or the use may have occurred on the land, without the required authorization described in these rules, unless the structure or use is exempt from such authorization. Ownership of state-owned submerged and submersible land cannot be obtained by adverse possession regardless of the length of time the structure or use has been in existence.  (5) All uses of state-owned submerged and submersible land must conform to applicable local (including local comprehensive land use planning and zoning ordinance requirements), state and federal laws.  (6) No applicant or holder is allowed to request from any government agency a change in the zoning for, or approved uses of state-owned submerged and submersible land without first applying to, and receiving written approval from the Department.  (7) All references in these rules to “state-owned submerged and submersible land” include state-owned submerged lands or submersible lands or both. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2014, f. 1-13-14, cert. ef. 2-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
