



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 51 HIGHWAY APPROACHES, ACCESS CONTROL, SPACING STANDARDS AND MEDIANS 
 734-051-3030 
 Application Requirements for State Highway Private Approach 
 
 (1) Purpose. This rule sets forth the requirements for an application for state highway approach.  (2) Pre-Application Meetings.  (a) The department or applicant may request a pre-application meeting for any approach permit application.  (b) The purpose of a pre-application meeting is to review general application requirements and processing timelines, technical application requirements, and any issues specific to the proposal, including understanding the economic needs and objectives that are pertinent to the subject property.  (c) Applicant requests for pre-application meetings shall be made on forms provided by the department and shall be accompanied by a preliminary site plan, description of existing and proposed land use(s), including estimated vehicle trips, and any additional information or questions the applicant chooses to provide.  (d) The department encourages applicants to provide complete and accurate information regarding potential changes in land use and development with requests for pre-application meetings in order to avoid unnecessary delays in processing any future application.  (3) Application. An application for a state highway approach permit must include the following information in subsections (a) through (j) below:  (a) Application form for a state highway approach;  (b) A site plan illustrating the existing and proposed location of all approaches, and any other buildings, facilities, and natural geographic features that impact vehicle circulation on the property, circulation to and from the highway, or sight distance;  (c) Property owner’s signature or evidence of the property owner’s consent to apply for a permit where the applicant is not the owner of the subject property;  (d) Information required by the department to evaluate sight distance concerns, including but not limited to measurements, diagrams, calculations, or other information that may require preparation by a professional engineer;  (e) Information identified by the department that is required to demonstrate compliance with the approval criteria of OAR 734-051-3010 or 734-051-3020, as applicable;  (f) Identification and request for approval of all deviations from spacing, channelization and sight distance standards, as applicable;  (g) Information required by the department to evaluate a deviation pursuant to OAR 734-051-3050;  (h) A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) where the department determines that a TIA is required to evaluate the approach permit application pursuant to OAR 734-051- 3030(4);  (i) A Land Use Compatibility Statement provided by the department, completed and signed by the local jurisdiction that certifies that all necessary local land use planning approvals have been obtained or are under review and demonstrates that the proposed use is consistent with the acknowledged comprehensive plan, and transportation system plan and local development code. In lieu of the Land Use Compatibility Statement, the department may accept the final land use decision;  (j) Tax lot map(s) with names and addresses of persons who own the properties adjacent to the subject property.  (4) When a Traffic Impact Analysis is Required.  (a) A traffic impact analysis is required for a request for a deviation from the spacing, channelization or sight distance standards as set forth in OAR 734-051-4020, unless waived by the department.  (b) Except where the criteria in subsections (A) and (B) of this section, below, are met for the highway segment where an approach permit is sought, the department may require a person applying for an approach permit to submit a traffic impact analysis in conjunction with the application for an approach permit.  (A) The average daily volume of trips at the property is determined to be four hundred (400) or fewer trips; or  (B) The average daily volume of trips at the property is determined to be more than four hundred (400) but fewer than one thousand one (1001) trips and:  (i) The highway is a two-lane highway with average annual daily trip volume of five thousand (5,000) or fewer motor vehicles;  (ii) The highway is a three-lane highway with average annual daily trip volume of fifteen thousand (15,000) or fewer motor vehicles;  (iii) The highway is a four-lane highway with average annual daily trip volume of ten thousand (10,000) or fewer motor vehicles; or  (iv) The highway is a five-lane highway with average annual daily trip volume of twenty-five thousand (25,000) or fewer motor vehicles.  (5) Traffic Impact Analysis Submittal Requirements. Traffic Impact Analyses (TIA), when required, shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (a) through (e). To the extent possible the department shall coordinate the analysis needs associated with the approach application with any local jurisdiction TIA requirements.  (a) A Professional Engineer (PE) employed by the department shall determine the scope of the TIA, and shall determine the sufficiency of the TIA for the purpose of evaluating the application.  (b) The TIA shall assess highway peak hour and average daily trips for the type of land use action proposed, for the year of the analysis, the year of each phase opening, and future years beyond project completion or buildout, but not greater than the year of the planning horizon for transportation system plans, or fifteen (15) years, whichever is greater.  (c) A Professional Engineer (PE) must prepare the study in accordance with methods and input parameters approved by the department.  (d) The scope and detail of the study must be sufficient to allow the department to evaluate the impact of the proposal and the need for roadway capacity, operational, and safety improvements resulting from the proposed approach.  (e) The study must identify the data used and the application of data in the analysis.  (6) Waiver of Application Requirements. The department may waive requirements for information and documentation required under this rule depending on the nature of the application and the sufficiency of other information available to the department for its evaluation of an application. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619, 374.310–374.314, 374.345 & 374.355 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.300–374.360, §27, ch. 330 & OL 2011 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 8-2012, f. 6-27-12, cert. ef. 6-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 16-2011(Temp), f. 12-22-11, cert. ef. 1-1-12 thru 6-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
