



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Education 
 Chapter 581 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 581-020-0025 
 Professional Growth, Career Opportunities, and Instructional Improvement 
 
 To be eligible for funding a district application shall define and provide a process by which eligible teachers are selected by a building site committee to receive additional professional growth and career opportunities which may include, but are not limited to, service as a mentor teacher, supervision and instruction of student teachers, either in the classroom or as an adjunct faculty member at a school of education, curriculum development, service on a site committee, reimbursement for academic course work, opportunities for research in a teacher’s field or fields, programs to encourage peer observation and assistance programs, additional sabbaticals and other programs designed to encourage professional growth:  (1) All teachers in good standing shall be eligible for advance professional growth and career opportunities, according to criteria established by the building site committees. Those criteria shall include demonstration of the following:  (a) Mastery of teaching skills and subject matter knowledge;  (b) A commitment to personal and professional growth as a teacher;  (c) Active collaboration on professional matters with other faculty; and  (d) Active involvement in school and community affairs.  (2) In applying for such opportunities, teachers shall describe how such opportunities will further the goals of the schools in which the teachers are employed.  (3) Administrators may be eligible for additional professional growth and career opportunities according to criteria established by the building site committee, provided that their proposals are directly linked to enhancing their role as instructional leaders within their schools.  (4) Mini-grants for professional growth and career opportunities may be given for a period of time not to exceed one year.  (5) In exchange for assuming additional responsibilities a teacher approved for a professional growth and career opportunity shall be given the choice of receiving additional release time or additional compensation or a combination of both. However, release time shall not be used if to do so increases the work load of other teachers regularly employed by the school district. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 336 & 896 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 329.695 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 9-1990, f. & cert. ef. 1-30-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 EB 8-1988, f. & cert. ef. 1-15-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
