



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Racing Commission 
 Chapter 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PARI-MUTUEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 462-200-0530 
 Quinella Pools 
 
 (1) The Quinella requires selection of the first two finishers, irrespective of order, for a single contest.  (2) The net Quinella pool shall be distributed to winning wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) If contestants of a coupled entry or mutuel field finish as the first two finishers, as a single price pool to those selecting the coupled entry or mutuel field combined with the next separate betting interest in the official order of finish; otherwise  (b) As a single price pool to those whose combination finished as the first two betting interests; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a profit split to those whose combination included either the first or second-place finisher; but if there are no such wagers on one of the those two finishers; then  (d) As a single price pool to those whose combination included the one covered betting interest included within the first two finishers; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) The entire pool shall be refunded on Quinella wagers for that contest.  (3) If there is a dead heat for first involving:  (a) Contestants representing the same betting interest, the Quinella pool shall be distributed to those selecting the coupled entry or mutuel field combined with the next separate betting interest in the official order of finish.  (b) Contestants representing two betting interests, the Quinella pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (c) Contestants representing three or more betting interests, the Quinella pool shall be distributed as a profit split.  (4) If there is a dead heat for second involving contestants representing the same betting interest, the Quinella pool shall be distributed as if no dead heat occurred.  (5) If there is a dead heat for second involving contestants representing two or more betting interests, the Quinella pool shall be distributed to wagers in the following precedence, based upon the official order of finish:  (a) As a profit split to those combining the winner with any of the betting interests involved in the dead heat for second; but if there is only one covered combination; then  (b) As a single price pool to those combining the winner with the one covered betting interest involved in the dead heat for second; but if there are no such wagers; then  (c) As a profit split to those combining the betting interests involved in the dead heat for second; but if there are no such wagers; then  (d) As a profit split to those whose combination included the winner and any other betting interest and wagers selecting any of the betting interests involved in the dead heat for second; but if there are no such wagers; then  (e) The entire pool shall be refunded on Quinella wagers for that contest. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 462.270(3) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RC 3-2000, f. 3-27-00, cert. ef. 5-1-00 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
