



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT 
 137-090-0080 
 File Categories 
 
 All information to be retained in the criminal intelligence files must meet the stated guidelines for file definition and content. Information will only be retained in one of three file categories as set forth below:  (1) Working File:  (a) The working file is the receiving phase of newly acquired raw data. The CIU staff review the new materials for its acceptability to the CIU’s criminal intelligence system.  (b) Retention Period: The retention period is thirty working days during which effort is made to determine the value of the raw data and its acceptability to the CIU’s criminal intelligence system.  (2) Temporary File:  (a) The temporary file includes individuals, groups, businesses, and organizations which have not been positively identified by one or more distinguishing characteristics, or whose criminal involvement is questionable;  (b) Individuals, groups, and organizations are given temporary file status only in the following situations:  (A) The subject is unidentifiable because there are no physical descriptors, identification numbers, or distinguishing characteristics available; and  (B) The subject’s involvement in criminal or gang activities is questionable; and  (C) The subject has a history of criminal or gang conduct, and the circumstances afford him an opportunity to again become active; and/or  (D) The reliability of the information source and/or the validity of the information content cannot be determined at the time of receipt; and  (E) The information appears to be significant and merits temporary storage.  (c) Retention Period: The retention period is one year during which time effort is made to secure additional data verification. If the information still remains in the temporary file at the end of one year with no update information added, and no information is available, the information is purged and destroyed.  (3) Permanent File:  (a) This file includes individuals, groups, businesses, and organizations which have been positively identified by one or more distinguishing characteristics and criminal involvement;  (b) Retention Period: The retention period is five years after which the information is evaluated for its file acceptability. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.610(2), (3), (4), 181.575 & 28 CFR §23.20 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JD 2-1989, f. & cert. ef. 9-13-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
