



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Revenue 
 Chapter 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 316 PERSONAL INCOME TAX GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 150-316-0652 
 Frivolous Return Penalty 
 
 (1) A $250 penalty shall be assessed if a taxpayer takes a “frivolous position” in respect to preparing the taxpayer’s return. A return is considered frivolous if a taxpayer does not provide information on which the substantial correctness of the self-assessment may be judged or if the return contains information that on its face indicates that the self-assessment is substantially incorrect.  (2) Some additional examples where a “frivolous position” is considered to have been taken include but are not limited to:  (a) An argument that wages or salary are not included in taxable income. This can occur when the taxpayer alters lines on the return to recharacterize wages or salary as nontaxable or takes deductions on Schedule C equal to income and characterizes the deductions as the total of business expenses or cost of goods sold.  (b) An argument that the law directs “taxpayers” to file a return and they aren’t a taxpayer.  (c) An argument that by filing a return their rights of nonself-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution will be violated. An example of this is when a taxpayer writes “object” or “object — self-incrimination” in the amount columns or across the face of the return.  (d) An argument that requiring a taxpayer to file a return violates their right to prohibition of involuntary servitude provided in the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.  (e) Submitting a return that may show an address, be signed and have W-2’s attached but has zeros, object, Fifth Amendment or self-incriminating written in the columns or on the face of the return.  (f) An argument that the tax system is discriminatory.  (g) An argument that the taxpayer’s right to free speech as provided by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution has been violated by requiring a return or by providing the information required on the return.  (h) An argument that a check which can only be redeemed in Federal Reserve Notes is not taxable income. The taxpayer’s argument is that only gold and silver can be taxed and that Federal Reserve Notes are not income because they can’t be redeemed for gold or silver. Also, that the Federal Reserve Notes should be considered accounts receivable that do not have to be reported as income until they are paid in gold or silver.  (i) An argument that a graduated tax is unconstitutional.  (j) Taking unauthorized deductions or credits based on a percentage of the national debt used for defense (war tax) or abortions.  (k) Taking unauthorized deductions or credits based on the declining value of the dollar to reflect the difference between the face value and the fair market value of Federal Reserve Notes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 305.100 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 316.992 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 150-316.992(5), REV 66-2016, f. 8-15-16, cert. ef. 9-1-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 RD 4-1988, f. 5-25-88, cert. ef. 6-1-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
