



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 123 THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
 333-123-0125 
 Superficial Electronic Brachytherapy Personnel Requirements 
 
 (1) To be an authorized user for superficial electronic brachytherapy the individual must: 

 (a) Be licensed as a physician by the Oregon Medical Board; and 

 (A) A dermatologist who has had training in the use, safety and operation of a superficial electronic brachytherapy device approved by the Authority; or 

 (B) A qualified radiation therapy physician. 

 (b) Comply with all training described in these rules. 

 (2) Before treating, or assisting with treating, with superficial electronic brachytherapy, an authorized user must first complete an approved Authority radiation use and safety course which covers the following topics: 

 (a) Sources of radiation: 

 (A) Natural, cosmic, and internal; 

 (B) Man-made, consumer products and nuclear testing; and 

 (C) Industrial uses. 

 (b) Radiation defined: 

 (A) Particle vs. electromagnetic; 

 (B) Ionizing and non-ionizing; and 

 (C) Radioactive decay; alpha, beta, gamma, and neutron. 

 (c) Major components of an X-ray system: 

 (A) X-ray tube, tube housing, and filtration; 

 (B) X-ray characteristics, interaction of radiation with matter; and 

 (C) Types of scatter and photoelectric absorption. 

 (d) Radiation detection use and measurement: 

 (A) Types of meters; 

 (B) Understanding units; and 

 (C) Calibration. 

 (e) Biological effects: 

 (A) Radiation quantities and units; 

 (B) Exposure dose, absorbed dose, dose equivalent, does rate, quality factors and type of radiation involved; 

 (C) Size of dose and rate of dose; 

 (D) Part of body exposed and age; and 

 (E) Biological differences, effects of radiation by biological organization (molecular, subcellular, inhibition of cell division, cell death, mutation), and the effects to organs and tissue. 

 (f) Mechanisms of biological damage. 

 (g) Acute and latent reaction to X-ray radiation. 

 (h) Risk of stochastic effects. 

 (i) Radiation dose from natural and man-made sources. 

 (j) Occupationally exposed individuals. 

 (k) Shielding. 

 (l) Dosimetry devices and monitoring methods: 

 (A) Monitoring requirements; 

 (B) External monitoring; and 

 (C) External dose evaluation. 

 (m) Federal and state regulations. 

 (n) Oregon’s registration requirements. 

 (o) Radiological safety surveys, records and documentation: 

 (A) Surveys and inspections; 

 (B) Radiological controls and ALARA; and 

 (C) Radiological emergencies and reporting medical events. 

 (p) Emergency procedures. 

 (q) Clinical applications. 

 (r) Treatment plans: 

 (A) Fractions and fraction dose; and 

 (B) Total dose and frequency. 

 (3) Upon successful completion of the training required in section (2) of this rule, and before treating, or assisting with treating, with superficial electronic brachytherapy, an authorized user must complete the manufacturer’s application training as defined in OAR 333-106-0005. 

 (4) Upon completion of the training required in sections (2) and (3) of this rule, and before treating with superficial electronic brachytherapy, an authorized user must assist with treating 15 or more patients undergoing superficial electronic brachytherapy treatment under the personal supervision of an authorized user who has been performing superficial electronic brachytherapy for at least three years. To satisfy this requirement, training must include, but not limited to the following: 

 (a) Evaluation of prepared treatment plans and selecting proper dose; 

 (b) Treatment simulation and post-administration follow ups; 

 (c) Patient positioning and how dose are administered; and 

 (d) Radiation protection for patients and occupational workers. 

 (5) The registrant must retain copies of training records demonstrating completion of the requirements of this rule until the registration is terminated. Records must be in accordance with OAR 333-100-0057 and made available to the Authority for inspection. 

 (6) To be a superficial electronic brachytherapy operator, the individual must: 

 (a) Be registered in therapy by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologist [RT(T)] and licensed by the Oregon Board of Medical Imaging or must be a qualified radiation therapy physician; and 

 (b) Complete the manufacturer’s applications training as defined in OAR 333-106-0005(5). 

 (7) The authorized user and the superficial electronic brachytherapy device operator must be trained in the operation and emergency response for the superficial electronic brachytherapy device. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 453.605 - 453.807 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 72-2020, adopt filed 10/09/2020, effective 10/09/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
