



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 250 WATER DISTRIBUTION 
 690-250-0060 
 Diversion Works and Measuring Device Installation Notices for Surface Water and Ground Water 
 
 (1) Water use controlling devices and/or measuring devices shall be required when necessary for regulation or management purposes. When, in the watermaster’s judgement, it becomes necessary to require such devices, the watermaster shall use a notice form furnished by the Water Resources Department. For each water use control or measuring device installation, a separate form must be filled out completely for each appropriator and submitted in duplicate to the Director (these notices are not valid unless signed by the Director). The original signed notice shall be returned to the watermaster to be delivered in person with date of delivery entered on each notice. When it is impractical for the watermaster or the appointed representative to deliver the notice in person, it shall be sent by certified mail. The date of delivery shall be the date of mailing.  (2) All required water use controlling devices and measuring devices shall be approved by the watermaster prior to installation. If the appropriator refuses or neglects to construct and install the required water use control or measuring devices or have an approved construction schedule for such installation after 10 days notice, the watermaster may close the diversion (ORS 540.320) or open the reservoir outlet (ORS 540.330), or regulate the controlling works of a well. The appropriator may request an extension of time from the watermaster and submit another construction schedule.  (3) If the appropriator fails to meet an approved construction schedule, the watermaster may close the diversion or close the controlling works of the well. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 540 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 540 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 24-1988, f. & cert. ef. 12-14-88 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
