



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 36 WATER UTILITIES 
 860-036-2230 
 Allocation of Costs 
 
 (1) For purposes of this rule, regulated and nonregulated activities of a water utility must be accounted for using the Uniform System of Accounts for Water Utilities published by the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners as modified by the Commission.  (2) When a water utility is conducting an affiliate interest transaction, as defined in this rule, the water utility must use the following cost allocation methods:  (a) When an asset is transferred to a water utility from an affiliate, the transfer must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at the lower of net book value or fair market value;  (b) When an asset is transferred from a water utility to an affiliate, the transfer must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at the tariff rate if an appropriate tariff is on file with the Commission. If no tariff is applicable, proceeds from the transfer must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at the higher of net book value or fair market value;  (c) When an asset is transferred from a water utility to an affiliate at a fair market value that is greater than net book value, the difference is considered a gain to the water utility. The water utility must record the gain so the Commission can determine the proper disposition of the gain in a subsequent rate proceeding;  (d) When services or supplies are sold by a water utility to an affiliate, sales must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at rates per the tariff, if an applicable tariff is on file with the Commission. Rates per the tariff must be established whenever possible. If services or supplies are not sold per a tariff, sales must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at the water utility's cost or the market rate, whichever is higher;  (e) When services or supplies are sold to a water utility by an affiliate, sales must be recorded in the water utility's accounts at the affiliate's cost or the market rate, whichever is lower. The affiliate's cost must be calculated using the water utility's most recently authorized rate of return; and  (f) Income taxes must be calculated for the water utility on a standalone basis for both ratemaking purposes and regulatory reporting. When income taxes are determined on a consolidated basis, the water utility must record income tax expense as if it were determined for the water utility separately for all time periods. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756 & 757 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040, 757.490 & 757.495 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-24-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
