



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 BUDGETS, FINANCE, ACCOUNTING AND ANNUAL REPORTS 
 860-027-0035 
 Applications by a Utility for Authority to Guarantee Indebtedness 
 
 (1) The requirements of this rule will apply to any energy or large telecommunications utility seeking authority under ORS 757.440 and 759.350. Every applicant shall set forth in its application to the Commission, in the manner and form indicated, the following information which should, to the extent possible, be furnished for each person, firm, or corporation involved:  (a) The information required by OAR 860-027-0030(1)(a) to (g) inclusive;  (b) A full description of the securities for which applicant proposes to assume obligation or liability as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise;  (c) The amount of other securities of said person, firm or corporation now held, owned or controlled by the applicant;  (d) A statement as to whether or not any application with respect to the transaction or any part thereof is required to be filed with any federal or other state regulatory body;  (e) The reasons, in detail, why it is in applicant’s interest to guarantee such securities;  (f) The reasons, in detail, why it is necessary for applicant to guarantee such securities; and  (g) The facts relied upon by the applicant to show the assumption is:  (A) For some lawful object within the applicant’s corporate purposes and compatible with the public interest;  (B) Necessary or appropriate for or consistent with the applicant’s proper performance of service as a public or telecommunications utility;  (C) Will not impair its ability to perform that service; and  (D) Reasonably necessary or required for such purposes.  (2) Required Exhibits. There shall be filed with the application as part thereof the following exhibits:  (a) EXHIBIT A. A copy of the applicant’s charter or articles of incorporation with amendments to date;  (b) EXHIBIT B. A copy of the bylaws with amendments to date;  (c) EXHIBIT C. Copies of all resolutions of directors authorizing the assumption in respect to which the application is made and, if stockholders’ approval has been obtained, a copy of the stockholders’ resolution should also be furnished;  (d) EXHIBIT D. A copy of any mortgage, indenture, or other agreement securing any security which it proposes to guarantee; also, a copy of any mortgage, indenture, or other agreement securing applicant’s funded obligations;  (e) EXHIBIT E. Balance sheets with supporting fixed capital or plant schedules in conformity with the form set forth in the annual report which applicant is required to file with the Commission;  (f) EXHIBIT F. A statement of all known contingent liabilities, except minor items such as damage claims and similar items involving relatively small amounts at the date of the application;  (g) EXHIBIT G. Comparative income statements in conformity with the form set forth in the annual report which applicant is required to file with the Commission;  (h) EXHIBIT H. An analysis of surplus for the period covered by the income statements referred to in Exhibit G; and  (i) EXHIBIT I. A statement showing the present market value or other basis of determining the value of the securities to be guaranteed. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 756, 757 & 759 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.440 & 759.335 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 16-2001, f. & cert. ef. 6-21-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 9-1998, f. & cert. ef. 4-28-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 164, f. 4-18-74, ef. 5-11-74 (Order No. 74-307) 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
