



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 84 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC PROGRAMS 
 860-084-0350 
 Requirements after Approval of a Solar Photovoltaic Interconnection 
 
 (1) Once a contracted system has been approved under these solar photovoltaic interconnection rules, the electric company may not require a retail electricity consumer to test or perform maintenance on its facility except for:  (a) An annual test in which the contracted system is disconnected from the electric company's equipment to ensure that the inverter stops delivering power to the grid;  (b) Any manufacturer-recommended testing or maintenance;  (c) Any post-installation testing necessary to ensure compliance with IEEE standards or to ensure safety; and  (d) Testing required if the retail electricity customer replaces a major equipment component that is different from the originally installed model.  (2) When a contracted system undergoes maintenance or testing in accordance with the requirements of these solar photovoltaic interconnection rules, the retail electricity consumer must retain written records for seven years documenting the maintenance and the results of testing.  (3) An electric company has the right to inspect a contracted system after interconnection approval is granted, at reasonable hours and with reasonable prior notice to the retail electricity consumer. If the electric company discovers that the contracted system is not in compliance with the requirements of these solar photovoltaic interconnection rules, the electric company may require the retail electricity consumer to disconnect the contracted system until compliance is achieved.  (4) The retail electricity customers’ electric service may be disconnected by the public utility entirely if the contracted system must be physically disconnected for any reason. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 757.360 - 757.380 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 2-2010, f. & cert. ef. 6-1-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
