



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 205 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
 441-205-0130 
 Fair Dealing with Customers 
 
 The term “Manipulative, Deceptive, or Other Fraudulent Act or Practice,” as used in these rules, is hereby defined to include:  (1) Recommending speculative low-priced securities to customers without knowledge of or attempt to obtain information concerning the customers’ other securities holdings, their financial situation, and other necessary data.  (2) Trading in mutual fund shares on a short-term basis.  (3) Recommending the purchase of securities or the continuing purchase of securities in amounts which are inconsistent with the reasonable expectation that the customer has the financial ability to meet such a commitment.  (4) In any transaction for or with a customer failing to use reasonable diligence to ascertain the best inter-dealer market for the subject security and buy or sell in such market so that the resultant price to the customer is as favorable as possible under prevailing market conditions.  (5) In any transaction for or with a customer, interjecting a third party between a broker-dealer and the best available market, except in cases where the broker-dealer can demonstrate that, to his knowledge at the time of the transaction, the total cost or proceeds of the transaction, as confirmed to the broker-dealer acting for or with the customer, was better than the prevailing inter-dealer market for the security.  (6) Failing to make a bona fide public distribution at the public offering price of securities of a public offering which immediately trade at a premium in the secondary market, regardless of whether such securities are acquired by the broker-dealer as an underwriter, a selling group member, or from a member participating in the distribution as an underwriter or selling group member, or otherwise.  (7) Establishment of fictitious accounts in order to execute transactions which otherwise would be prohibited, such as the purchase of “Hot Issues.”  (8) Causing the execution of transactions which are unauthorized by customers or the sending of confirmations in order to cause customers to accept transactions not actually agreed upon.  (9) Giving, permitting to be given, or offering to give, directly or indirectly, anything of value to any person for the purpose of influencing or rewarding the action of such person in connection with the publication or circulation in any newspaper, investment service, or similar publication, of any matter which has, or is intended to have, an effect upon the market price of any security; provided that this rule shall not be construed to apply to matter which is clearly distinguishable as paid advertising.  (10) Guaranteeing a customer against loss in any securities account of such customer carried by the broker-dealer or in any securities transaction effected by the broker-dealer with or for such customer.  (11) Sharing directly or indirectly in the profits or losses in any account of a customer carried by the broker-dealer or any other broker-dealer, unless such broker-dealer or person associated with a broker-dealer obtains prior written authorization from the broker-dealer carrying the account; and unless such a broker-dealer or person associated with such broker-dealer shares in the profits or losses in any account of such customer only in direct proportion to the financial contributions made to such account by either the broker-dealer or person associated with a broker-dealer; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to accounts of the immediate family of such broker-dealer or person associated with a broker-dealer. For purposes of this rule, “Immediate Family” shall include parents, mother-in-law or father-in-law, husband or wife, children or any relative to whose support the broker-dealer or person associated with a broker-dealer otherwise contributes directly or indirectly. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 59 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 59.205(2) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CC 12-1973, f. 7-12-73, ef. 9-1-73, Renumbered from 815-030-0205, 815-030-0175 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
