



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Veterinary Medical Examining Board 
 Chapter 875 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VETERINARY MEDICAL FACILITIES AND VETERINARY PRACTICE 
 875-015-0020 
 Minimum Requirements for Veterinary Medical Facilities and Veterinary Licensees
 
 
   

 Each veterinary medical facility and veterinary licensee shall comply with the following: 

 (1) Air Quality: Adequate heating and cooling must be provided for the comfort and well-being of the animals, and the facility must have sufficient ventilation in all areas to prevent mildew and condensation, and to exhaust toxic and/or nauseous fumes and/or odors. 

 (2) Lighting: Sufficient lighting must be provided in all areas sufficient for the safety of personnel and the intended use of this area. 

 (3) Water: Potable water must be provided. 

 (4) Waste Disposal: Waste disposal equipment shall be so operated as to minimize insect or other vermin infestation, and to prevent odor and disease hazards or other nuisance conditions. The veterinary medical facility shall have sanitary and aesthetic disposal of dead animals and other wastes which complies with all applicable federal, state, county and municipal laws, rules, ordinances and regulations. 

 (5) Storage: All supplies, including food and bedding, shall be stored in a manner that adequately protects such supplies against infestation, contamination or deterioration. Adequate refrigeration shall be provided for all supplies that are of a perishable nature, including foods, drugs and biologicals. 

 (6) Examination Area: Examination and surgery tables shall have impervious surfaces. 

 (7) Laboratory: May be either in the veterinary medical facility or through consultative services, adequate to render diagnostic information. An in-house laboratory shall meet the following minimum standards: 

 (a) The laboratory shall be clean and orderly with provision for ample storage; 

 (b) Adequate refrigeration shall be provided; 

 (c) Any tests performed shall be properly conducted by currently recognized methods to assure reasonable accuracy and reliability of results. 

 (d) Laboratory equipment must provide results of diagnostic quality. Protocols must be in place and followed regularly to assure the quality and reproducibility of the diagnostic information produced. 

 (8) Radiology: Equipment for diagnostic radiography must be available either on or off the veterinary medical facility. Such equipment must be on the premises if orthopedic or open thoracic procedures are performed. The equipment must meet federal and state protective requirements and be capable of producing, reading and labeling good quality diagnostic radiographs, including imaging diagnosis and findings. Equipment for providing diagnostic oral radiography must be available to the veterinary medical facility whenever surgical dental services are offered. 

 (9) Animal Housing Areas: Each veterinary medical facility confining animals must have individual cages, pens, exercise areas or stalls to confine said animals in a comfortable, sanitary and safe manner. Animals that are hospitalized for treatment of contagious diseases must be isolated physically and procedurally so as to prevent the spread of disease. 

 (10) Licenses: Licenses of every veterinarian or veterinary technician practicing in the veterinary medical facility shall be displayed in a place conspicuous to the public. Relief or temporary licensees may post legible photocopies of licenses. Mobile practice licensees shall have their license or a legible copy available for verification upon client request. 

 (11) Prescriptions: If requested, a written prescription shall be provided to a client for medications prescribed by the veterinarian under a valid VCPR. The facility shall post in a place conspicuous to the public a notice indicating availability of written prescriptions. The facility shall use, or replicate the specifications of, a notice template provided by the Board . 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 686.210 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 686.130 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VMEB 4-2018, amend filed 04/19/2018, effective 04/19/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VMEB 2-2018, amend filed 01/24/2018, effective 01/24/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VMEB 2-2014, f. & cert. ef. 1-17-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VMEB 9-2008, f. & cert. ef. 7-22-08 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VMEB 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 2-8-06 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 VME 5-1992, f. & cert. ef. 12-10-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
