



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 130 CORRECTIONAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS 
 291-130-0025 
 Operation and General Provisions of VIP Calls 
 
 (1) Inmates are required to provide their personal identification number (PIN) and comply with a validation process to gain access to the inmate telephone system to make VIP calls.  (2) The same provisions that apply to telephone calls as specified in OAR 291-130-0011 apply to VIP calls (security of PIN and access).  (3) Inmates are responsible to schedule VIP calls through the inmate telephone system via kiosks located throughout each institution.  (a) Accessibility to VIP calls will differ by institution given the uniqueness of each institution.  (b) Inmates will be allowed to make VIP calls during designated times based on a first-come, first-served basis to access their accounts with staff authorization.  (4) Inmates must place VIP calls as prepaid. The inmate telephone system does not allow collect VIP calls.  (5) The functional unit manager or designee has the authority to restrict or revoke VIP calls by an inmate if the safety of the public would be involved, or the security of the facility, or safety and welfare of any person would be jeopardized.  (6) If the inmate cannot complete the VIP call because the called party is not available or for other reasons, the inmate shall terminate the call and reschedule at another time.  (7) Inmates shall not loiter in the surrounding area where kiosks are located.  (8) Only one inmate at a time shall be permitted access to a VIP call. The inmate who initiates a VIP call is the only person authorized to converse with the contact party during that call. An inmate may be assessed a fee from the inmate telephone service provider if it is verified that more than one inmate participated in a VIP call.  (9) Family VIP Calls: The functional unit manager or designee, at their sole discretion, may authorize more than one inmate to participate in a VIP call to encourage and promote responsible familial relationships.  (10) Appropriate Clothing/Dress:  (a) Inmates must be properly attired consistent with standards set forth in OAR 291-123-0015(5) and the inmate handbook.  (b) The caller or contacted party is encouraged to wear clothing that is conservative in nature; e.g., clothing that is not unduly suggestive or form fitting. The caller or contacted party shall not display male or female genitalia, the pubic area or anus, or expose the female breasts.  (11) VIP calls between inmates and staff, volunteers, or contractors; or between inmates and former staff, volunteers, or contractors are not allowed without express written authorization by the functional unit manager or designee.  (12) Special Housing: Inmates in special housing are not allowed access to VIP calls, unless authorization is given by the functional unit manager. Special housing includes administrative housing, disciplinary segregation, Intensive Management Unit, Death Row housing, mental health special housing, and facility infirmaries.  (13) The department may prohibit an inmate from participating in a VIP call with a particular person or phone number when requested by the person, or in the case of a minor child, by the child’s parent or legal guardian.  (14) Inmates shall not participate in VIP calls with two or more parties using different IP addresses during the same VIP call. An inmate may be assessed a service fee from the inmate telephone service provider if it is verified he/she has participated in a VIP call with participants using more than one IP address.  (15) Inmates shall not use VIP calls for interviews with media representatives or unaffiliated persons. Media representatives or unaffiliated persons may request an interview with an inmate in accordance with the department’s rules on Media Access (OAR 291-204).  (16) Inmates shall not use VIP calls as an outlet for public performances to individuals or organizations.  (17) Neither the inmate or contact party may record, re-broadcast, reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, trade, or resell either the audio or video of the VIP call. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 12-2015, f. & cert. ef. 8-31-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
