



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Addiction Services - Chapter 415 
 
 
 
 
 Division 52 RECOVERY HOMES FOR PEOPLE IN RECOVERY FROM ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY 
 415-052-0110 
 Revolving Loan Fund 
 
 (1) Establishment of the Revolving Loan Fund. The Division will establish and administer a revolving loan fund to assist the establishment of recovery homes. This fund shall be known as the “Oregon Recovery Homes Revolving Loan Fund”. The revolving loan fund will be established with federal funds allocated for this purpose under 42 U.S.C. 300x-25 and may be supplemented with state funds designated for this purpose.  (2) Administration of the Revolving Loan Fund. The Division may contract with a private, nonprofit entity to administer the revolving loan fund The private, nonprofit entity will be selected through a competitive process consistent with state contracting practices under ORS 279B. The selection of the contractor shall be based upon a review of qualifications, expertise, experience and documented capabilities relating to the administration of a revolving loan fund. The revolving loan fund will be administered consistent with all federal, state and local laws and the following requirements:  (a) The revolving loan fund will be maintained in an account that is separate and distinct from all other accounts maintained by the contractor that is selected by the Division. The account will be interest-bearing, if such an account is available, and be kept in a depository approved by the State of Oregon;  (b) The contractor will adopt policies and procedures for the administration of the revolving loan fund consistent with 42 U.S.C. 300x-25, 45 CFR 96.129 and these rules. These policies and procedures will include criteria for approving loans, collecting payments, assessing penalties, and managing loans in default. These policies and procedures will be reviewed and approved by the Division;  (c) The contractor will use forms and other written materials to provide loans. These will include, but not be limited to, a loan application form, a loan approval letter indicated loan terms, and a past due notification letter;  (d) Loans will be limited to legitimate costs relating to the establishment or relocation of a recovery home. These costs will include, but not be limited to, first month’s rent, necessary furniture, facility modifications, and purchase of appliances and equipment necessary to the operation of the household  (e) Loans will not exceed $5,000. This amount will include no more than $4,000 from federal sources. No interest will be charged;  (f) The terms for the loan shall specify that repayment will occur within two years after the date on which the loan is made;  (g) The loan will be paid through monthly installments with funds collected from residents of the recovery home;  (h) A reasonable penalty will be assessed for each failure to pay the monthly installment by the due date;  (i) There will be procedures that outline liability and recourse in the case of default; and  (j) A record for each loan shall be maintained and include the application, approval documentation, payment history, correspondence, penalties, default remedies and documentation of pay-off.  (3) Reporting Requirements. The contractor shall provide a monthly report to the Division on the status of the revolving loan fund and assist the Division with supplying data for an annual report to the federal government on the status of the revolving loan fund.  (4) Non-performance. In the event of contractor non-performance, the Division may take actions necessary to remediate problems or terminate the contract for administration of the revolving loan fund. If contract termination results in a period of time when no contractor is available to administer the fund, the Division will administer the fund until such time another contractor may be selected. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 & 430.256 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 90.100 - 90.459, 105.105 - 105.168, 430.265 - 430.920 & 279B 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADS 2-2009, f. & cert. ef. 12-3-09 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
