



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 125 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES FOR AUTHORIZING SPECIAL USES ON STATE-OWNED LAND 
 141-125-0110 
 Policies
 
 
 (1) Pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5(2) of the Oregon Constitution, the State Land Board, through the Department, has a constitutional responsibility to manage all land (Trust and Non-Trust) under its jurisdiction "with the object of obtaining the greatest benefit for the people of this state, consistent with the conservation of this resource under sound techniques of land management." 

 (2) All Trust Land will be managed in accordance with the need to maximize long-term financial benefit to the Common School Fund. 

 (3) The Department will follow the guiding principles and resource-specific management prescriptions contained in the Asset Management Plan, and consider the comments received from federal, state, and local governments and interested persons when determining whether to authorize or condition a special use authorization on state-owned land. 

 (4) Each individual use of, or development placed on state-owned land will constitute a separate discrete activity subject to payment of compensation as required by these or other applicable Department rules, or as determined by the Director. 

 (5) Uses of, and developments placed in, on or over state-owned land pursuant to a special use authorization will conform with local (including comprehensive land use planning and zoning ordinance requirements), state, and federal laws. 

 (6) The Department will not grant a special use authorization if it determines that the proposed use or development would unreasonably impact uses or developments proposed or already in place within the requested area. Such a determination will be made by the Department after consulting with holders of leases, licenses, permits and easements granted by the Department in the requested area, and other interested persons. 

 (7) All uses subject to these rules must be authorized by a special use authorization issued by the Department. Authorization to occupy state-owned land cannot be obtained by adverse possession regardless of the length of time the use or development has been in existence. 

 (8) The Department may: 

 (a) Conduct field inspections to determine if uses of, and developments in, on or over state-owned land are authorized by, or conform with the terms and conditions of a special use authorization and, if not, 

 (b) Pursue whatever remedies are available under law to ensure that the unauthorized uses subject to a special use authorization are either brought into compliance with the requirements of these rules or removed. 

 (9) The Department will honor the terms and conditions of any existing valid lease or license for a special use granted by the Department including any that entitle the lessee or licensee to renewal if the holder of the authorization has complied with all terms and conditions of the authorization and applies to the Department for a renewal as prescribed in these rules. 

 (10) Holders of a license to conduct a demonstration project for a land-based (that is, not on state-owned submerged and submersible land) wind farm geothermal resource installation or solar energy installation will be given the first right to apply for a lease for the area authorized under the license. 

 (11) The Department may, at its discretion, authorize a demonstration project for a land based renewable energy project as part of a lease with the commercial electrical energy generating installation. 

 (12) The Department may, at its discretion, deny a special use authorization if the applicant’s financial status or past business practices, or both, indicate that the applicant may not: 

 (a) Be able to fully meet the terms and conditions of a special use authorization offered by the Department; or 

 (b) Use the land applied for in a way that meets the provisions of OAR 141-125-0110. 

 (13) Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS 274.885, the Department will not allow or authorize the removal of kelp or other seaweed for commercial purposes. 

 (14) Notwithstanding the provisions of these rules, the Department may: 

 (a) Initiate projects involving special uses of, or developments in, on or over the land it manages by itself or in conjunction with other persons; 

 (b) Request proposals for special uses of, or developments on land it manages and select and award a lease through a competitive bid process to develop the use(s) or development(s) based on the policies provided in OAR 141-125-0110; and 

 (c) Negotiate and accept compensation in the form of services in lieu of monetary payments provided for in these rules. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 273.045 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  OR Const. Art. VIII, Sec 2 & 5 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 6-2024, amend filed 12/10/2024, effective 12/13/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-12-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2015, f. 11-9-15, cert. ef. 12-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 3-2008, f. & cert. ef. 10-15-08 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 1-2002, f. 2-7-02, cert. ef. 3-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
