



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Oregon Board of Maritime Pilots - Chapter 856 
 
 
 
 
 Division 15 Training and Licensing 
 856-015-0023 
 Applicant Examination & Ranking – Columbia & Willamette River Pilotage Ground 
 
 (1) Initial Application. Applications may be submitted at any time, but no application will be considered for the upcoming examination cycle unless it is submitted by August 1 of that examination year. Individuals applying for admission to the examination process for licensure as a trainee on the Columbia and Willamette River pilotage ground must submit:   

 (a)  The following documents: 

 (A)  A completed application form prescribed by the Board. Applications submitted without a completed application form are incomplete and will be automatically rejected; and 

 (B)  All documentation required by OAR 856-015-0005. Applications submitted without all documentation required by OAR 856-015-0005 are incomplete and will be automatically rejected. 

 (b)  Evidence satisfactory to the Board of the following minimum qualifications:    

 (A)  At least 730 active working days as master of towing vessels on the Columbia River and its tributaries, acquired over a minimum of three years; 

 (B)  A current, valid license as master of inland or near coastal vessels of 500 Registered Gross Tons or more; 

 (C)  Graduation from high school or successful passage of high school equivalency examination. A copy of the applicant’s high school diploma or high school equivalency certification (such as a General Educational Development certificate) constitutes documentation satisfactory to the Board; and 

 (D)  A current, valid First-Class Pilot License from Tansey Point, Oregon to Ryan Point, Washington on the Columbia River, and from Kelley Point, Oregon to the Ross Island Bridge on the Willamette River. 

 (2) Only applicants who provide all the required documentation and meet all qualifications under section (1) of this rule are eligible to continue in the trainee license application process. Applicants who apply without meeting the qualifications required under subsections(1)(b) of this rule shall receive formal notice of disqualification and denial. 

 (3) First Examination – Navigation Simulation. An applicant who has submitted a complete and qualifying initial application under subsection (1) of this rule must take the Navigation Simulation examination. This examination consists of a physical navigation simulation exercise. 

 (a) An applicant must pass the Navigation Simulation examination, administered by a nationally recognized, independent, marine education and training facility designated by the Board. Applicant participation in all further evaluation processes is predicated on passing the Navigation Simulation examination. 

 (b) This examination is scored by the marine education and training facility. Before administering the exam, the marine education and training facility must provide the Board with the scoring system it will use, and the Board must determine how it will convert that system into points to be awarded to each applicant who has passed the examination. Each applicant examined shall be assigned from 0 to 58 points reflecting their navigation simulation examination score.  

 (4) Second Examination – Fundamentals of State Pilotage. An applicant who has passed the Navigation Simulation examination must take the Fundamental of State Pilotage – Columbia and Willamette Rivers, administered by the Board. 

 (a) The Fundamentals of State Pilotage Examination – Columbia and Willamette Rivers, is an oral examination, administered by the Board every two years, commencing on a date between October 1 and December 31 as determined by Board staff. The examination may take place over the course of one or more days, depending upon the number of examinees. 

 (b) In every case, at least one pilot from the Board's licensed training organization for the Columbia and Willamette River pilotage ground who has held an unlimited pilot’s license for at least 5 years shall be included as an examiner. 

 (c) Each applicant examined shall be assigned an oral examination score from 0 to 58 points based upon the following guidelines: knowledge of the fundamentals of state piloting; knowledge of trade and commerce on the Columbia River;   poise and confidence; and other factors as may be deemed relevant by the Board. 

 (5) Optional Points. Documentation for optional, additional points may be submitted at any time up to 18 months after the Board establishes the Roll of Candidates for which the applicant has most recently tested. An applicant may add up to 58 points to the applicant’s oral examination score as follows: 

 (a) Education. An applicant must submit official documentation of graduation from the graduating institution to the Board in order to be awarded points under this subsection. The maximum number of points available from education is 20 : 

 (A) Four-year degree from an accredited Maritime Academy: 15 points 

 (B) Two years (90 semester credit hours) of course work, a two-year degree, or a four-year degree, from an accredited college or university program: 5 points. An applicant who receives points for a four-year Maritime Academy degree is not eligible for points under this paragraph.                                                                                                                       

 (C) A Master’s degree or PhD in a maritime or business curriculum: 5 points 

 (b) Experience and Certification. An applicant must submit to the Board a copy of any licensure, endorsement, or certification claimed, and documentation of any experience claimed, to be awarded points under this paragraph. The maximum number of points from certification and additional experience is 35 : 

 (A) Federal pilotage endorsement on the Columbia River from Ryan Point, Washington to East Pasco, Washington: 15 points 

 (B) Federal pilotage endorsement on the Columbia River from East Pasco, Washington to Hanford, Washington: 1 point 

 (C) 1,460 active working days as master of towing vessels on the Columbia River and tributaries, obtained over a minimum of 6 years: 10 points 

 (D) 2,190 or more active working days as master of towing vessels on the Columbia River and its tributaries, obtained over a minimum of 9 years: 3 points 

 (E) Automatic Radar Plotting Aid Certification : 1 point   

 (F) Bridge Resource Management Certification: 1 point 

 (G) Emergency Medical Training Certification: 1 point 

 (H) Hazardous Materials Certification: 1 point 

 (I) Marine Firefighting Certification: 1 point 

 (J) Oil Spill Control Certification: 1 point 

 (c) References. Each applicant may submit three maritime industry references that have knowledge of the applicant's professional skills and abilities to be a state licensed pilot. The references must have personal knowledge of such skills and abilities within the last six years; 3 point maximum if one of the references includes the most recent supervisor; 2 point maximum otherwise.  

 (6) All applicants who complete the Fundamentals of State Pilotage – Columbia and Willamette River oral examination shall be placed on the Board’s Roll of Candidates for the Columbia and Willamette River pilotage ground. 

 (a) Candidates shall be ranked in order from the highest scoring candidates to the lowest scoring candidates, based on the results of the examination, plus any additional points earned under section five (5) of this rule. 

 (b) Subject to Board approval, the rankings on every Roll of Candidates shall be recalculated three times, at approximately six-month intervals from the date the initial candidate rankings are approved by the Board. The rankings shall be recalculated to account for any new, optional points candidates may acquire.  

 (7) In accordance with ORS 776.115(2) and ORS 243.305, at such times as vacancies may be forecast or occur within the register of pilots when no certified apprentice is available, the Board shall issue trainee licensure to the highest ranked individual or individuals on the Roll of Candidates for the Columbia and Willamette Rivers and assign the trainee or trainees to the Columbia River Pilots training organization.    

 (8) A Roll of Candidates expires after approximately two years, as soon as the Board approves applicant rankings for a subsequent Roll of Candidates. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 776.115 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 776.300 & ORS 776.325 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 3-2025, amend filed 01/15/2025, effective 01/15/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 4-2024, amend filed 04/03/2024, effective 04/03/2024 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 2-2022, amend filed 07/21/2022, effective 07/21/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 7-2021, amend filed 05/21/2021, effective 05/21/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 4-2021, temporary amend filed 03/23/2021, effective 03/23/2021 through 09/17/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BMP 6-2020, adopt filed 09/10/2020, effective 09/10/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
