



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 87 BATTERER INTERVENTION PROGRAM RULES 
 137-087-0030 
 Interface Standards — Criminal Justice System 
 
 (1) Participation in Judicial or Corrections Response. A BIP's intervention services may be part of a judicial or corrections response to battering, either as a condition of probation, post-prison supervision or parole, through a domestic violence deferred sentencing agreement, or as otherwise authorized by law. A BIP is encouraged to use the power of the criminal justice system to hold batterers accountable for their battering.  (2) Liaison. A BIP shall designate a program staff person to serve as a liaison to the LSA and the MA. The liaison shall:  (a) Request information such as court orders, protection orders, post-prison supervision or parole orders and police reports;  (b) Work collaboratively with the LSA and MA to facilitate coordination of BIP services with supervision requirements so the BIP is not working at cross-purposes with criminal justice system requirements applicable to the batterer;  (c) Report to the appropriate LSA or MA, or both, any known violations of the requirements of a court order, any criminal assaults, or threats of harm to the victim. The BIP must make such a report in such a way that does not knowingly jeopardize the safety of the victim;  (d) Report any substantial violations of the programs’ rules including but not limited to violations that create a risk of termination to the appropriate LSA or MA, or both;  (e) Submit monthly status reports to the LSA or MA about participant attendance, content of participation, any known violations of court orders, protection orders, post-prison supervision or parole orders, any known changes in risk factors since intake (see section 137-087-0060(2)(c)), and program exit summary;  (f) Report any other information requested by the LSA or MA to the extent permitted by federal or state law, required by court order, or authorized by the participant.  (3) Communications about Participant Release. In communications about participant release for completion of BIP intervention services, a BIP shall note that such release shall not be interpreted as evidence that the participant is presently non-abusive, as descriptive of his present behavior outside the group, or as predictive of his future behavior.  (4) Consistency with Court Orders or DHS Child Welfare Requirements. A BIP shall ensure BIP actions are consistent with all court orders, protection orders, post-prison supervision or parole orders or DHS Child Welfare requirements, including orders affecting batterer contact with the victim(s) or partner(s).  (5) Training. A BIP shall participate in training and cross-training in conjunction with VPs and criminal justice agencies, and shall offer technical assistance to the criminal justice system and VPs relating to batterers and appropriate intervention strategies to eliminate battering of women and abuse of children.  (6) Imminent Threat to Health or Safety. The BIP shall disclose participant information when, and to the extent, the BIP in good faith believes such disclosure is necessary to prevent or lessen an imminent threat to the health or safety of a person or the public. No authorization to release information is required in such circumstances. The BIP may provide information to a person or persons reasonably able to prevent or lessen the risk of harm, including but not limited to the LSA, the MA, and other law enforcement or corrections personnel.  (7) A BIP shall request periodic program review with a LSA or MA, on a biannual basis. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 180.070 - 180.710 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 13-2012, f. 7-31-12, cert. ef. 8-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 16-2005, f. 11-23-05, cert. ef. 1-1-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
