



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Water Resources Department 
 Chapter 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 93 WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT GRANT AND LOAN PROGRAM 
 690-093-0030 
 Authorized Use of Funds 
 
 (1) The Department may expend moneys from the Water Supply Development Account for:  (a) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, making loans and grants to evaluate, plan and develop instream and out-of-stream water development projects approved by the Water Resources Commission, including but not limited to projects that:  (A) Repair or replace infrastructure to increase the efficiency of water use;  (B) Provide new or expanded water storage;  (C) Improve or alter operations of existing water storage facilities in connection with newly developed water;  (D) Create new, expanded, improved or altered water distribution, conveyance or delivery systems in connection with newly developed water;  (E) Allocate federally stored water;  (F) Promote water reuse;  (G) Promote water conservation;  (H) Provide streamflow protection or restoration;  (I) Provide for water management or measurement in connection with newly developed water; and  (J) Determine seasonally varying flows in connection with newly developed water.  (b) Paying the necessary administrative and technical costs of the Department in carrying out OAR 690-093.  (2)(a) In addition to any other permissible uses of moneys in the account, the Department may expend moneys from the account to support:  (A) Ongoing studies conducted by the United States Army Corps of Engineers to allocate stored water; and  (B) Comprehensive basin studies conducted by the United States Bureau of Reclamation.  (b) Expenditures described in this subsection are not subject to any grant or loan procedures, public benefit scoring or ranking or other requirements or restrictions for grants or loans established under this administrative rule.  (3) The Department may expend account moneys under subsection (1) of this section for loans and grants to develop instream and out-of-stream water development projects only if the Department determines under ORS 540.530 that any transfer of water rights for the project will not injure existing water rights.  (4) The Commission is not required to obligate all available account moneys during a funding cycle. Any available account moneys that are not obligated during a funding cycle shall be carried forward and be made available for projects in future funding cycles. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 541.651 - 541.696 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 541.651 - 541.696 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WRD 6-2015, f. & cert. ef. 7-2-15 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
