



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 400 EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DISTRICTS, SCHOOL DISTRICTS, AND INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL RECORDS 
 166-400-0040 
 School Administration Records 
 
 (1) Communication Logs Logs document communications made or received through a variety of electronic devices, including but not limited to telephone, smart phone, facsimile (fax), radio, computer-aided dispatch, pager, and teletype, AND are not otherwise specified in this general records retention schedule (OAR 166 division 400). Logged information may include time, date and disposition of communication, name of caller, number called or received, and action taken. SEE ALSO Correspondence in the Administrative Records section. Minimum retention: 1 year  (2) District Boundary Records Records document the formation, consolidation, and reorganization of school districts and their boundaries. Records may include but are not limited to boundary board meeting minutes; boundary board hearing records; board decisions; maps and plats; land records; boundary descriptions; and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent.  (3) District Clerk’s Records Records document the administration of the school district and the reporting of this general and financial information to the county school superintendent. The district clerk’s record books may contain but are not limited to reports of annual school meetings, special school meetings, and district board meetings; financial reports, receipts, and accounts; teacher contracts; annual census of school-aged children; payroll information; summary of subjects taught; records of school boundaries; and related documentation. The school register and record books may contain but are not limited to records of visitors; records of students registration, attendance, and deportment; general school statistics; teacher salary records; program and class records; evaluations of student progress; data on parents and guardians; and related documentation. These records are no longer being created. Minimum retention: Permanent.  (4) Interscholastic Athletic Activity Program Records Records document student eligibility and participation in interscholastic competitive sports and athletic activities, athletic event and team publicity, and athletic events scheduling. Records may include but are not limited to team standings; win/loss records; All-Star selections; team member information; statistics; event and practice schedules; and related documentation and correspondence. Minimum retention: 5 years after school year in which records were created.  (5) Key and Keycard Records Records document the issuance of keys and keycards to staff to enable access to buildings and sites. Records may include but are not limited to key inventories, key issue forms, key replacement records, and key disposal records. Minimum retention: (a) Retain access and entry logs 3 years (b) Retain other records 2 years after key is turned in  (6) Mailing Lists Records document the compilation of names and addresses of persons and organizations by a school, district, or ESD for mailing purposes. Lists are used to facilitate billing, outreach activities, and other functions of the school, district, or ESD. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete.  (7) Parking Records Records document parking provided for the public or school, district, or ESD staff or students. Records include parking permits and applications, special permits, permit receipts, parking citations, appeal petitions, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Retain citation records: 3 years after resolved (b) Retain all other records: 3 years.  (8) Postal Records Records document transactions with the U.S. Postal Service and private carriers. Records may include but are not limited to postage meter records, receipts for express deliveries, registered and certified mail; insured mail, special delivery receipts and forms, loss reports, and related correspondence. Minimum retention: 3 years after school year in which records were created.  (9) Press Releases Records document school, district, or ESD information that is officially released to the media for dissemination to the public. Records may include press or news releases, public service announcements, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Policy and Historic press/news releases: Permanent (b) Routine news/press releases: 2 years  (10) Publications Records document publications produced by a school, district, or ESD for educational or informational purposes, or to communicate information about programs, policies, services, and events. Records include publications produced by individual school staff, offices, and students. Types of publications may include but are not limited to catalogs, books, magazines, newsletters, rosters, directories, brochures, pamphlets, media guides, guidebooks, proceedings, programs, schedules, yearbooks, manuals, newspapers, calendars, and flyers. Records may include but are not limited to working papers, mock-ups, drafts, photographs, final publications, and publications on the school, district, or ESD’s Internet home page. SEE ALSO Press Releases in this section. Minimum retention: (a) Retain significant publications, official copy: Permanent (b) Retain preparation records: Until published (c) Retain all other publications and records: 2 years  (11) Scheduling Records Records document the scheduling and reservations related to in-house participation in and use of various school, district, or ESD activities, events, classes, facilities, and meeting rooms. Records may include but are not limited to schedules, logs, lists, classroom assignments, requests, and related correspondence and documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after school year in which records were created  (12) Security Records Records document security provided for school, district, or ESD building and grounds. Security may be provided by an on-site public safety office and public safety officers. Records may include but are not limited to security logs, sign-in sheets, visitor logs, security activity reports, incident reports, statistical information, and related correspondence and documentation. SEE ALSO Key Issuance Records in this section. Minimum retention: 3 years after school year in which records were created  (13) Student Handbooks Records document school rules and regulations and student rights and responsibilities. Information may include but is not limited to general school information, academic requirements, dress codes, rules of student conduct, freedoms, and student grievance procedures. Minimum retention: (a) Retain official copy: Permanent (b) Retain all other copies: Until superseded or obsolete.  (14) Visitor Logs Records document visitors to agency buildings. Records name include visitors’ names, visitor badges issued, and entrance and exit times. Minimum retention: 1 year 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192 & 357 & Other Auth. Code of Federal Regulations Title 34 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192 & 357 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 1-2017, f. & cert. ef. 1-13-17 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 2-2006, f. & cert. ef. 7-26-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renumbered from 166-405-0010, OSA 1-2006, f. & cert. ef. 4-17-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 6-1997, f. & cert. ef. 4-22-97 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
