



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Systems Division: Medical Assistance Programs - Chapter 410 
 
 
 
 
 Division 142 HOSPICE SERVICES 
 410-142-0260 
 Hospice Level of Care 
 
 (1) Each day of hospice care is classified into one of five levels of care. The level of care determines the payment for each day of hospice benefit:  (a) Routine Home Care. A routine home care day is a day on which a patient who has elected to receive hospice care is in a place of residence and is not receiving continuous home care;  (b) Continuous Home Care. A continuous home care day is a day on which a patient who has elected to receive hospice care is not in an inpatient facility and receives hospice care consisting predominantly of nursing care on a continuous basis at home. Home health aid or homemaker services or both may also be provided on a continuous basis. Continuous home care is only furnished during brief periods of crisis as necessary to maintain the terminally ill individual at home. Nursing care must be provided by a registered nurse or a licensed practical nurse and a nurse must be providing care for more than half of the period of care. A minimum of eight hours of care must be provided during a 24-hour day, which begins and ends at midnight. When fewer than 8 hours of nursing care are required, the services are covered as routine home care rather than continuous home care;  (c) In-Home Respite Care. An in-home respite care day is a day on which short-term in-home care is provided to the patient only when necessary to relieve the family members or other persons caring for the patient at home. Respite care may be provided only on an occasional basis and may not be reimbursed for more than five consecutive days at a time. In-home respite care will be provided at the level necessary to meet the patient's need, with a minimum of eight hours of care provided in a 24-hour day, which begins and ends at midnight. Home health aide/CNA or homemaker services or both may be utilized for providing in-home respite care;  (d) Inpatient Respite Care. An inpatient respite care day is a day on which short-term inpatient care is provided to the patient only when necessary to relieve the family members or other persons caring for the patient at home. Respite care may be provided only on an occasional basis and may not be reimbursed for more than five consecutive days at a time. Payment for the sixth, and any subsequent days, is to be made at the routine home care rate. Respite care may not be provided when the hospice patient is a nursing home resident;  (e) General Inpatient Care. A general inpatient care day is a day on which a hospice patient receives care in an inpatient facility for pain control, acute or chronic symptom management, or other procedures which cannot be managed or provided in any other setting.  (2) Inpatient care must be provided by a facility that has an agreement with the hospice:  (a) A hospice capable of providing inpatient care;  (b) A hospital; or  (c) A nursing facility. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 413.042 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 414.065 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OMAP 58-2002, f. & cert. ef. 10-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 28-1997, f. 12-31-97, cert. ef. 1-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HR 9-1994, f. & cert. ef. 2-1-94 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
