



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 55 POLE LINES, BURIED CABLES, PIPE LINES, SIGNS, MISCELLANEOUS FACILITIES AND MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONS 
 734-055-0090 
 Specific Construction Details 
 
 (1) Corrugated metal pipe and concrete pipe used as a conduit or casing pipe or a gravity flow carrier pipe shall as a minimum conform to requirement of the Department’s current issue of Standard Specifications for Highway Construction. Smooth iron or steel pipe used as a conduit or casing pipe shall be the standard type used for pressure pipe.  (2) No trench shall be excavated with a top width in excess of 18 inches more than the outside diameter of the pipe, conduit, or cable to be installed unless permission is first obtained from the DM.  (3) All underground installations shall be buried a minimum of 30 inches unless permission is first obtained from the DM.  (4) Aerial utilities crossing the roadway of the highway shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 18 feet.  (5) The backfilling of all trenches and tunnels must be accomplished immediately after the facility authorized by the permit has been placed therein and must be fully compacted to produce a density in place of not less than 95 percent of relative maximum density.  (6) All debris, refuse and waste of all kinds, which may have accumulated upon the highway right-of-way by reason of the activity of applicant shall be removed immediately upon completion of the said activity, and the said highway right-of-way must be restored to at least as good a condition as it was prior to such activity.  (7) Unless special permission is first obtained from the DM, direct burial of cable placed by the plowing method shall be limited to areas outside the roadway of the highway.  (8) Standard warning signs for buried power or communications cable and for pipe lines carrying gas or flammable liquids shall be placed at each crossing under the highway and at intervals along longitudinal installations as required by current Public Utility Commissioner’s Order or as specified by the DM:  (a) Signs shall be placed as near the right-of-way line as practical;  (b) No signs shall be placed between the guardrail and the highway roadway.  (9) Pedestals installed as part of a buried cable installation are to be located one foot from the right-of-way line unless special permission is obtained from the DM to locate elsewhere. In no case shall the pedestals be located within the highway maintenance operating area, including mowing operations, or nearer the pavement edge than any official, highway sign in the same general location.  (10) The buried cable or pipe depth shown on the permit form represents the distance from the top of the surface or ground line to the top of the cable or pipe.  (11) Applicant shall not spray with selective herbicides, cut or trim trees or shrubs growing on the highway right-of-way unless and until written permission and instructions to do so have first been obtained from the DM.  (12) All material installed within highway right-of-way shall be durable and designed for long service life expectancy and shall be relatively free of routine servicing and maintenance requirements.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184 & 374 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 374.305 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWY 6-1989, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-89 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
