



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Psychiatric Security Review Board 
 Chapter 859 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 200 PSRB CIVIL COMMITMENT PROGRAM 
 859-200-0020 
 Definitions
 
 
 (1) “Administrative hearing” means a meeting of the Board where a quorum is present and where the Board considers requests for conditional release, requests for community evaluations or modifications to a person's current conditional release plan. At these hearings, parties are not present and testimony is not taken. 
(2) “Administrative meeting” means any public meeting of the Board where a quorum is present for the purpose of considering matters relating to Board policy and administration. Administrative meetings follow Public Meetings Law. Minutes shall be taken during an administrative meeting and distributed to Board members and interested persons. Minutes shall be voted on and approved at subsequent administrative meetings. 
(3) “Community evaluation” is a written report ordered by the Board and conducted by a qualified mental health professional from a local mental health program designated by the Board to determine if an individual can be adequately controlled with supervision and treatment if conditionally released and that supervision and treatment are available. 
(4) “Commitment county" means the county in which the district attorney filed the initial petition. This is the same as the county in which the person is initially committed as an extremely dangerous person with mental illness under the jurisdiction of the Board. 
(5) “Conditional release” means a grant by the court or by the Board for the person to reside outside the state hospital in the community under conditions for monitoring and treatment of the mental disorder resistant to treatment and the mental and physical health of the person. 
(6) “Discharge” means that the person is no longer under the jurisdiction of the Board because any of the following occurs: 
(a) The Board or Court determines, after a hearing, that the person no longer suffers from affected by a qualifying mental disorder that is resistant to treatment or is no longer extremely dangerous; or 
(b) The maximum 24-month period of commitment has expired, and the Board has not certified the person for continued treatment. 
(7) "Hearing" means a hearing before the Board to consider any legal matter under its jurisdiction. The parties are provided with an opportunity to be heard, including the submission of evidence and the testimony of witnesses. 
(8) “Incident Report” means a report completed by the outpatient supervisor that describes any significant behavioral or mental health changes, serious violations of conditional release requirements, psychotropic medication refusals, or any other information that is relevant to an individual’s ability to be safely managed in a community setting. The incident report should contain the following information: 
(a) A description of incident; 
(b) A summary of the interventions that were used by community mental health provider staff; 
(c) A summary of the debrief with the individual or a summary of why a debrief did not occur; and 
(d) Any recommendations on how to mitigate future incidents, including but not limited to modifications to the individual’s conditional release plan. 
(9) “Qualifying Mental Disorder” 
(a) Any diagnosis of mental disorder which is a significant behavioral or psychological syndrome or pattern that is associated with distress or disability causing symptoms or impairment in at least one important area of an individual’s functioning. 
(b) The term “qualifying mental disorder” excludes an abnormality manifested solely by repeated criminal or otherwise antisocial conduct. 
(c) The term “qualifying mental disorder” excludes a disorder constituting solely a personality disorder. 
(d) The term "qualifying mental disorder" excludes a diagnosis of an intellectual disability or developmental disability as defined in ORS 427.005. 
(10) “Parties” includes the extremely dangerous person with a qualifying mental disorder and the State of Oregon. 
(11) “Psychiatric Security Review Board (PSRB)" or "Board" refers to the Senate confirmed members of the PSRB. 
(12) “Quorum” means the presence of at least three Board members. 
(13) "Outpatient supervisor" or " community case monitor" means the individual whom the Board has designated as supervising the person on conditional release and who is required to report to the Board regarding the person's status. 
(14) “State hospital; hospital” means a state hospital operated by the Oregon Health Authority. 
(15) “Victim” means the person or persons who have suffered financial, social, psychological or physical harm as a result of one of the acts articulated in ORS 426.701(3)(a)(C) and for whom the extremely dangerous mentally ill person who is under the Board’s jurisdiction. Victims include, in the case of a homicide or abuse of corpse in any degree, a member of the immediate family of the decedent and, in the case of a minor victim, the legal guardian of the minor. In no event shall the extremely dangerous mentally ill person be considered a victim. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 426.701 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 426.701 & ORS 426.702 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-2026, amend filed 06/30/2026, effective 07/01/2026 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-2022, amend filed 01/13/2022, effective 01/13/2022 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 3-2021, temporary amend filed 06/18/2021, effective 06/21/2021 through 12/17/2021 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-2021, amend filed 02/22/2021, effective 02/22/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PSRB 1-2014, f. & cert. ef. 3-5-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
