



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission 
 Chapter 845 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 6 APPLICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS; RESTRICTIONS; PROHIBITED CONDUCT 
 845-006-0410 
 Custom Order Agreements 
 
 (1) "Custom order agreement" means an agreement whereby a Brewery or Brewery-Public House licensee agrees to produce or manufacture malt beverages based on certain specifications for a commission licensee authorized by the commission to receive the malt beverages under a custom order agreement. 

 (2) Malt beverages produced or manufactured under a custom order agreement are produced or manufactured by the producing Brewery or Brewery-Public House licensee and not by the receiving licensee. 

 (3) Privilege taxes for malt beverages produced or manufactured under a custom order agreement are due from the producing licensee when the producing licensee sells or transfers the malt beverage to the receiving licensee. Despite this requirement, the producing licensee may qualify for nonpayment of privilege taxes under ORS 473.050. 

 (4) A Brewery licensee: 

 (a) May not use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a retail licensee as defined in ORS 471.392. Despite this requirement, a Brewery licensee may use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a Full On-Premises Sales licensee licensed to the same licensee of record as the Brewery licensee. 

 (b) May use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a Brewery-Public House licensee. The custom order agreement must be in writing and both parties must comply with ORS 471.398. The custom order agreement does not absolve the receiving Brewery-Public House licensee from complying with all other laws and rules regulated by the commission. The custom order agreement must identify the malt beverage by a specific formula and it must identify a defined period of time for the agreement that is no longer than 60 days from production to delivery of the malt beverage to the receiving licensee. The agreement may not allow the producing Brewery licensee to store the malt beverage longer than the 60 day time period. The Brewery licensee and Brewery-Public House licensee shall provide the written custom order agreement to the Commission within 10 calendar days of the Commission's request for the agreement. 

 (c) May use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a manufacturer or 
wholesaler as defined in ORS 471.392. 

 (d) A violation of this section is a Category III violation. 

 (5) A Brewery-Public House Licensee: 

 (a) May not use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a retail licensee as defined in ORS 471.392. Despite this requirement, a Brewery-Public House licensee may use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a retail premises licensed to the same licensee of record as the Brewery-Public House licensee. 

 (b) May use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a different Brewery-Public House licensee. The custom order agreement must be in writing and both parties must comply with ORS 471.398. The custom order agreement does not absolve the receiving Brewery-Public House licensee from complying with all other laws and rules regulated by the commission. The custom order agreement must identify the malt beverage by a specific formula and it must identify a defined period of time for the agreement that is no longer than 60 days from production to delivery of the malt beverage to the receiving licensee. The agreement may not allow the producing Brewery-Public House licensee to store the malt beverage longer than the 60 day time period. The producing Brewery-Public House licensee and receiving Brewery-Public House licensee shall provide the written custom order agreement to the Commission within 10 calendar days of the Commission's request for the agreement. 

 (c) May use a custom order agreement to produce or manufacture malt beverages for a manufacturer or 
wholesaler as defined in ORS 471.392. The custom order agreement must be in writing and both parties must Page 10 of 15 comply with ORS 471.398. The Brewery-Public House licensee and receiving licensee shall provide the written custom order agreement to the Commission within 10 calendar days of the Commission's request for the agreement. 

 (d) A violation of this section is a Category III violation. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  2019 OL Ch. 373 
 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLCC 16-2019, adopt filed 12/27/2019, effective 01/01/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
