



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 700 LICENSING STANDARDS FOR OUTPATIENT RENAL DIALYSIS FACILITIES 
 333-700-0095 
 Medical Director of an Outpatient Renal Dialysis Facility 
 
 The Medical Director shall be responsible for oversight of the care provided by the staff of the dialysis facility. Treatment must be provided under the general supervision of a director who is a physician. The physician-director need not devote full time as director but shall be responsible for planning, organizing, conducting, and directing the professional dialysis services and must devote sufficient time to carrying out these responsibilities. The director may also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the facility.  (1) The director of a dialysis facility must be a qualified physician-director.  (2) The responsibilities of the physician-director include but are not limited to the following:  (a) Assuring the development and implementation of the process of modality selection, i.e., transplantation or dialysis and the setting for dialysis for all patients;  (b) Assuring adequate training of nurses and technicians in dialysis techniques;  (c) Assuring adequate monitoring of the patient and the dialysis process, including, self-dialysis patients;  (d) Assuring periodic assessment of patient performance of dialysis tasks;  (e) Assuring the development and availability of a patient care policy and procedures manual and its implementation. At a minimum, the manual shall describe the following:  (A) Types of dialysis used in the facility and the procedures followed in performance of such dialysis;  (B) Hepatitis prevention and procedures for handling an individual with hepatitis;  (C) Infection control; and  (D) A disaster preparedness plan (e.g., patient emergency, fire, flood);  (f) Assuring that patient teaching materials are available for use by all trainees during the training period and at times other than during the dialysis procedure when self-dialysis training or home dialysis training is offered; and  (g) Assuring that patient outcomes are monitored and evaluated as part of the QAPI process. The Medical Director must assure that a plan is in place for the improvement of patient outcomes. This process shall include a review of any accidents, incidents, or adverse outcomes. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 441.015 & 441.025 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 441.025 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 4-2012, f. 3-30-12, cert. ef. 4-1-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 7-2003, f. & cert. ef. 6-6-03 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
