



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Child Welfare Programs - Chapter 413 
 
 
 
 
 Division 40 CASE MANAGEMENT — SERVICE PLANS 
 413-040-0228 
 Placement of Oregon Children 
 
 (1) For an ICPC request to be valid, it must be reviewed and approved by the Oregon ICPC Office and a form 100A must be approved by the requesting party and the compact administrator, deputy compact administrator or designee. 

 (2) At minimum, the following documentation is required for the Oregon ICPC office to process an ICPC request for placement in another state: 

 (a) A completed form 100A . 

 (b) A copy of the relevant court order, and if there is none, a statement supporting the sending agency’s authority to place the child and documentation of ongoing supervision. 

 (c) A copy of the child’s case plan or recent social history. 

 (d) Financial/medical plan for the child’s placement including documentation whether the child is Title IV-E eligible. 

 (3) The ICPC approval for placement is valid for six months from the date the form 100A is signed by the appropriate authority in the receiving state. 

 (4) Requesting an extension. The Oregon ICPC office may request an extension from the receiving state’s ICPC office if the Oregon ICPC office determines the facts of the case necessitate an extension. 

 (5) Notifications. 

 (a) The Oregon ICPC office is responsible for sending form 100B to the receiving state. 

 (b) The sending agency or caseworker for the child who is being placed out of state must notify the Oregon ICPC office of the placement within five business days of the child being placed. 

 (6) Receiving state’s request to return a child to Oregon when the sending agency is in Oregon. 

 (a) If the receiving state determines that the placement no longer meets the individual needs of the child, the receiving state may: 

 (A) Request that Oregon arrange for the return of the child to Oregon as soon as possible; or 

 (B) Propose an alternative placement in the receiving state as provided in Article V(a) of the ICPC . 

 (b) The Oregon agency must wait for the receiving state to approve the alternative placement resource before the Oregon agency places the child. 

 (c) Return of the child to Oregon shall occur within five business days from the date of notice for removal unless otherwise agreed upon between the sending and receiving state ICPC offices. 

 (7) Relocations of a family unit. This section applies to relocations of a family unit within another state and to relocations of a family unit from one state to another state. 

 (a) The Oregon sending agency will notify the Oregon ICPC office of any address change or relocation. 

 (b) In addition to the materials required in 413-040-0230 (1), the following documentation is required for the Oregon ICPC office to process the relocation: 

 (A) For approved foster or adoptive placements: 

 (i) If the sending agency has possession, documentation showing required licensure, certification, approval or qualifications of the placement resource(s). 

 (ii) A copy of the most recent home study with any updates. 

 (B) A completed form 100B showing the date the child is placed in the receiving state. 

 (c) ICPC is not required for temporary relocations of 90 days or less. Under a temporary relocation, the sending state retains responsibility for ensuring the safety of the child, and the receiving state is not required to supervise the placement. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 418.005 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 417.200-417.260 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CWP 28-2019, adopt filed 06/12/2019, effective 06/12/2019 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
