



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 80 TRADE PRACTICES 
 836-080-0695 
 Access to Recorded Personal Information 
 
 (1) If an individual or personal representative of an individual, after proper identification, submits a written request to an insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization for access to recorded personal information about the individual that is reasonably described by the individual and reasonably locatable and retrievable by the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization, the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization within 30 business days from the date the request is received shall:  (a) Inform the individual of the nature and substance of the recorded personal information in writing, by telephone or by other oral communication, whichever the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization prefers;  (b) Permit access to inspect or obtain a copy of the individual’s personal financial information or protected health information that is maintained in a designated record set about the individual; and  (c) Provide the individual with a summary of the procedures by which the individual may request correction, amendment or deletion of recorded personal information.  (2) Any personal information provided pursuant to this section must identify the source of the information if the source is an institutional source.  (3) If an individual requests individually identifiable health information supplied by a health care provider, the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization shall provide the information, including the identity of the health care provider either directly to the individual or to a health care provider designated by the individual and licensed to provide health care with respect to the condition to which the information relates, whichever the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization prefers. If the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization elects to disclose the information to a health care provider designated by the individual, the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization shall notify the individual, at the time of the disclosure, that the insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization has provided the information to the health care provider.  (4) Except for personal information provided under ORS 746.650, an insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization may charge a reasonable fee to cover the costs incurred in providing a copy of recorded personal information to an individual.  (5) The obligations imposed by this rule upon an insurer or insurance producer may be satisfied by another insurer or insurance producer authorized to act on its behalf. With respect to the copying and disclosure of recorded personal information pursuant to a request under this rule, an insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization may make arrangements with an insurance-support organization or a consumer reporting agency to copy and disclose recorded personal information on its behalf.  (6) The rights granted to individuals by this rule shall extend to all natural persons to the extent information about them is collected and maintained by an insurer, insurance producer or insurance-support organization in connection with an insurance transaction. The rights granted to all natural persons by this section does not extend to information about them that relates to and is collected in connection with or in reasonable anticipation of a claim or a civil or criminal proceeding involving them.  (7) This rule does not authorize the disclosure of individually identifiable health information when the disclosure is prohibited or is otherwise regulated under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-191).  (8) For purposes of this rule, the term ' insurance-support organization' does not include 'consumer reporting agency.' 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731.244 & 746.608 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 746.600 & 746.607 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 4-2005, f. & cert. ef. 4-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
