



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commission for the Blind 
 Chapter 585 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 30 Dispute Resolution 
 585-030-0010 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Action” means a decision by the Commission to deny, terminate, suspend, or reduce a client’s eligibility or services. Action may include the Commission’s delay in making a decision to deny, terminate, suspend, or reduce a client’s eligibility or services. 

 (2) “ALJ” means Administrative Law Judge. 

 (3) "Client" means an applicant or individual eligible to receive services through the Commission. 

 (4) “Collaborative dispute resolution” means alternative methods to resolving a dispute between a client and the Commission prior to a final order issued by an ALJ following an impartial fair hearing. 

 (5) “Counselor” means the client's assigned vocational rehabilitation counselor who is a staff member of the Commission. 

 (6) "Delay" means: 

 (a) Commission failed to make a decision regarding an action within the timeframes specified in state or federal law; or 

 (b) If state or federal law does not impose a time limit, the client has made a dated, written request for a decision regarding an action and the Commission has unreasonably delayed in making that decision. 

 (7) "Good Cause" means due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the parties’ control, including, but not limited to, the client's extended illness that requires significant medical care or the illness or death of a family member. 

 (8) “Impartial Fair hearing” or “hearing” means a contested case hearing conducted by an ALJ to review an action taken by the Commission that affects a provision of a client’s vocational rehabilitation services. 

 (9) “Mediation" means the act or process of using a qualified and impartial third party, including an ALJ, to act as mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to assist individuals or parties in settling differences or disputes. 

 (10) “Mediation communication” means: 

 (a) All communications that are made, in the course of or in connection with a mediation, to a mediator, a mediation program or a party to, or any other person present at, the mediation proceedings; and 

 (b) All memoranda, work products, documents and other materials, including any draft mediation agreement, that are prepared for or submitted in the course of or in connection with a mediation or by a mediator, a mediation program or a party to, or any other person present at, mediation proceedings. 

 (11) “Commission” means the Oregon Commission for the Blind. 

 (12) “OAH” means the Office of Administrative Hearings. 

 (13) “Party” means, for purposes of the dispute resolution process, Commission or the client. 

 (14) “Problem ‐ solving” means an informal process where the client discusses dissatisfaction with an action taken by Commission with the client’s counselor the counselor’s supervisor, or other assigned Commission employee. Problem ‐ solving occurs before a Notice of Action is issued and the client requests formal mediation or a fair hearing. The client must request mediation or a hearing in order to preserve the client’s appeal rights. 

 (15) “Representative” means an individual who represents the client in a fair hearing. The client may be represented by an attorney licensed by the Oregon State Bar or any other representative authorized by law, including but not limited to the Client Assistance Program. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 346.150, ORS 183.341 & ORS 183.502 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 346.110-346.270 & ORS 183 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFTB 2-2021, adopt filed 02/23/2021, effective 02/24/2021 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
