



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Public Utility Commission 
 Chapter 860 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 21 UTILITY REGULATION 
 860-021-0057 
 Connection of Residential Energy Utility Service 
 
 (1) This rule applies to the connection of energy service for an applicant or customer who has satisfied the requirements of all applicable rules and regulations, and requested connection. This rule applies for connection at a location with existing service facilities where the utility need only activate service, or after any necessary line extension, construction or repair work has been completed.  (2) Each energy utility must provide a means by which an applicant or customer may contact the utility on a Business Day so that the applicant or customer may pay applicable charges, submit any necessary credit information and request connection of service. For purposes of this rule, Business Day is defined as Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., excluding state- or utility-recognized holidays.  (3) An energy utility must connect service as soon as reasonably possible, within the normal course of business, after an applicant or customer has satisfied the requirements for and requested connection. At a minimum, service must be connected within two Business Days, except as provided in section (4) of this rule.  (4) This section only applies to a natural gas service connection that is completed between September 15 and November 15 of each year, at an address where the applicant received service at any time during the past 12 months that was disconnected, but not reconnected within 20 days. Service must be connected as soon as reasonably possible, within the normal course of business, after an applicant or customer has satisfied the requirements for and requested connection. At a minimum:  (a) Service must be connected within two (2) Business Days when the applicant’s prior service at the address was disconnected from August 15 to November 15 of the current year.  (b) Service must be connected within five (5) Business Days when the applicant’s prior service at the address was disconnected from November 16 of the previous year to August 14 of the current year.  (5) With Commission concurrence, the connection requirements under this rule may be temporarily waived for any cause not reasonably within the control of the utility including, but not limited to, the following:  (a) A documented Force Majeure event;  (b) An action or default by an applicant or other person outside of the utility’s control, including a cancellation of the request made by the applicant or customer;  (c) Major events, such as storms or system outages;  (d) Safety-related issues that preclude the utility from connecting service;  (e) The applicant’s facilities cannot be accessed due to circumstances beyond the utility’s control;  (f) The utility’s equipment or facilities prevent the reconnection from occurring; or  (g) When the Commission approves a waiver. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS Ch. 183 & 756 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 756.040 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PUC 7-2006, f. & cert. ef. 7-6-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
