



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parks and Recreation Department 
 Chapter 736 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 18 STATE PARK MASTER PLANNING 
 736-018-0015 
 State Park Master Planning Process 
 
 This rule describes the process the Department follows in completing new state park master plans and amending existing master plans. In the master planning process, the Department shall provide reports and maps as appropriate for each step of the process for agency and public examination. The Department shall:  (1) Assess the occurrence and importance of the natural and cultural resources in the park.  (2) Determine the suitability of areas of the park for recreational use and development based on the natural and cultural resource assessments and the Department’s composite suitability assessment process as defined in OAR 736-018-0020(1)(c).  (3) Assess the recreational aspects of the park including:  (a) Current and future demand for outdoor recreational activities and related facilities in the vicinity of the park, and the statewide, regional and local supply of recreational opportunities and facilities related to demanded activities;  (b) The existing recreational opportunities and facilities in the park; and  (c) The recreational activities and facilities that could potentially be provided in the park.  (4) Assess the natural, cultural, and scenic resource management and interpretive needs of the park.  (5) Assess lands adjacent to the park for potential impacts on park resources and for opportunities to provide additional park resource protection or recreational opportunities.  (6) Convene a steering committee to review master planning work in progress. In forming the steering committee, the Department shall invite representatives of interested local, state and federal agencies, neighborhood interests, resource advocacy interests, and recreation advocacy interests relevant to the park. Department staff shall meet with, and solicit recommendations from the committee at key times in the process.  (7) Compile a preliminary list of issues including but not limited to the problems, constraints, needs and opportunities related to the use, development and interpretation of the park, protection and management of park resources, and the need and potential for park expansion through acquisition.  (8) Present the issues and other information and solicit comments in the following forums:  (a) At least one meeting of the steering committee;  (b) At least one public meeting held in the vicinity of the park and at least one other public meeting in a location that encourages broad participation, each followed by a public comment period of at least 21 days to provide for submittal of written comments;  (c) Informal meetings with Department staff and other agencies and interest groups as needed; and  (d) At least one public meeting of the Commission.  (9) Formulate goals for the use, development and interpretation of the park and management of its resources and for any potential park expansion.  (10) Prepare preliminary use and development proposals for the park. Include descriptions of the uses or facility types, intensities, sizes, site designs and locations and identification of any alternative sites based on the assessments completed in sections (1) through (6) of this rule, and considering information collected through the activities described in sections (7) through (10) of this rule. Adjust the preliminary proposals as needed after completion of the assessments described in sections (13) through (15) of this rule.  (11) Prepare preliminary natural, cultural and scenic resource management guidelines as described in OAR 736-018-0020(2)(d) through (f).  (12) Assess local and regional transportation system needs in relation to preliminary proposed park uses or facilities and resource management guidelines, in consultation with local and regional transportation agencies. Present solutions intended to address transportation system needs related to the park.  (13) Assess the potential impacts of proposed park uses and facilities and resource management guidelines on local and regional public services, in consultation with local and regional public service providers. Present solutions intended to address significant impacts.  (14) Assess the potential impacts of preliminary proposed park uses and facilities and resource management guidelines on adjacent land uses, in consultation with local governments and others. Present solutions intended to address potentially significant impacts.  (15) Assess the compatibility of preliminary proposals for the park with the statewide land use goals, ORS 215.296, and local planning and zoning. Identify land use actions needed to achieve compatibility with local comprehensive plans.  (16) Produce the draft master plan. Decisions about the master plan shall be consistent with the state park master planning criteria described under OAR 736-018-0020. The master plan shall include:  (a) A summary of the resource and recreation assessments;  (b) A summary of the compiled issues;  (c) Goals for future park use, development, interpretation, expansion, resource protection and management, and for potential partnerships.  (d) Park facility development proposals in concept, including the descriptions provided under section (10) of this rule.  (e) Natural, cultural and scenic resource management and interpretive guidelines for the park;  (f) Findings describing the compliance of the master plan with the state land use goals, ORS 215.296, compatibility with applicable local comprehensive plans, and other findings as needed for local comprehensive plan amendments;  (g) A summary of anticipated land use permitting requirements for master plan proposals;  (h) A summary of anticipated state and federal permit requirements for master plan proposals;  (i) Supportive maps and drawings; and  (j) References to any background material on file with the Department.  (17) Provide periodic updates to the Commission and Director on the development of the master plan and comments received.  (18) Distribute the draft master plan for public review and solicit comments in the following forums:  (a) At least one meeting of the steering committee;  (b) At least one public meeting held in the vicinity of the park and at least one other public meeting in a location that encourages broad participation, each followed by a public comment period of at least 30 days to provide for submittal of written comments. The draft master plan shall be offered to the public by media advertisement and mailed to all those on the master plan mailing list who request a copy; and  (c) Informal meetings with Department staff and other agencies and interest groups as needed.  (19) Following the public comment period for the draft master plan, assess the comments received and make appropriate changes based on direction from the Director.  (20) Present the master plan to the Commission at their public meeting, and ask for their concurrence and permission to initiate the rule-making process. Include in the presentation a summary of the public involvement process and comments. The draft master plan, recommended changes, and notice of presentation to the Commission shall be mailed to all those on the master plan mailing list who request a copy.  (21) Make appropriate changes to the draft master plan based on direction from the Commission and Director.  (22) Coordinate with affected local governments in the development, review and adoption of the master plan as described in OAR 736-018-0028 and OAR 660 division 34.  (23) Complete the rule-making process with related hearings and final edits. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 390.180 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 390.180 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PRD 9-1998, f. 7-29-98, cert. ef. 7-31-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
