



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Health Licensing Office - Chapter 331 
 
 
 
 
 Division 900 BODY PIERCING 
 331-900-0099 
 Client Records and Information for Earlobe Piercing License Holder
 
 
 (1) An earlobe piercing license holder is responsible for maintaining and keeping copies of all client records. If client records are maintained by the facility, the facility owner must provide the licensee with copies of those client records upon request. The record must include the following for each client: 

 (a) Name, address, telephone number and date of birth of client; 

 (b) Date of each service; 

 (c) Name and license number of the licensee providing service; 

 (d) Special instructions or notations relating to the client's medical or skin conditions including but not limited to diabetes, cold sores and fever blisters, psoriasis or eczema, pregnancy or breast-feeding/nursing. 

 (e) Complete list of the client’s sensitivities to medicines or topical solutions; 

 (f) History of the client's bleeding disorders; 

 (g) Description of complications during procedure(s); 

 (h) Signature from the client that they have received the following information in writing and verbally: 

 (A) All information related to the earlobe piercing service including possible reactions, side effects and potential complications of the service and consent to obtaining the earlobe piercing service; and 

 (B) After care instructions including care following service, possible side effects and complications and restrictions. 

 (i) Signature from the client that they have been informed, both verbally and in writing, of all information related to the earlobe piercing services including possible reactions, side effects and potential complications of the service and consent to obtaining the earlobe piercing service; 

 (j) Signature that the client has received the Office contact information and how to make a complaint. 

 (k) Proof of age or consent consisting of one of the following: 

 (A) If the client is of older than 18, a copy of a government issued photographic identification. A copy of the government issued photographic identification must be included in the client record; 

 (B) If the client is a minor written parental or legal guardian consent is required. The written parental or legal guardian consent must be submitted to the licensee by the parent or legal guardian prior to piercing the minor. The consenting parent or legal guardian must be 18 years of age and present government issued photographic identification at time of written consent. A copy of the government issued photographic identification must be included in the client record; or 

 (C) If the client is an emancipated minor, copies of legal court documents proving emancipation and government issued photographic identification is required. 

 (2) A licensee may obtain advice from a physician regarding medical Information needed to safeguard client and licensee. Advice from a physician must be documented in the client record. 

 (3) Documentation must be legibly written or computerized. Client documentation, written or archived electronically by computer, must be retained for a minimum of three years and available upon request by the Office. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  676.615 & 690.390 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  690.390 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLO 1-2018, amend filed 01/04/2018, effective 01/04/2018 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 15-2013, f. 12-30-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 HLA 10-2012, f. & cert. ef. 6-25-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
