



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Finance and Securities Regulation - Chapter 441 
 
 
 
 
 Division 175 LICENSING OF BROKER-DEALERS,  INVESTMENT ADVISERS, AND SALESPERSONS 
 441-175-0085 
 Limited Licensing of Canadian Broker-Dealers and Salespersons 
 
 (1) A broker-dealer that is resident in Canada and has no office or other physical presence in this state may, provided the broker-dealer is licensed in accordance with this rule, effect transactions in securities with or for, or induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of any security by,  (a) A person from Canada who is temporarily resident in this state, with whom the Canadian broker-dealer had a bona fide broker-dealer-client relationship before the person entered the United States; or  (b) A person from Canada who is resident in this state, whose transactions are in a self-directed tax advantaged retirement plan in Canada of which the person is the holder or contributor.  (2) A salesperson who will be representing a Canadian broker-dealer licensed under this rule may, provided the agent is licensed in accordance with this rule, effect transactions in securities in this state as permitted for the broker-dealer in section (1) of this rule.  (3) A Canadian broker-dealer may license under this rule provided that it:  (a) Files an application in the form required by the jurisdiction in which it has its head office;  (b) Is registered as a broker or dealer in good standing in the jurisdiction from which it is effecting transactions in this state and files evidence thereof; and  (c) Is a member of a self-regulatory organization or stock exchange in Canada.  (4) A salesperson who will be representing a Canadian broker-dealer licensed under this rule in effecting transactions in securities in this state may license under this rule provided that he or she:  (a) Files an application in the form required by the jurisdiction in which the broker-dealer has its head office; and  (b) Is registered in good standing in the jurisdiction from which he or she is effecting transactions into this state and files evidence thereof.  (5) If no denial order is in effect and no proceeding is pending under ORS 59.205, licensing becomes effective on the 30th day after an application is filed, unless earlier made effective, and expires on December 31 of every year.  (6) A Canadian broker-dealer licensed under this rule shall:  (a) Maintain its provincial or territorial registration and its membership in a self-regulatory organization or stock exchange in good standing;  (b) Provide the director upon request with its books and records relating to its business in this state as a broker-dealer;  (c) Inform the director forthwith of any criminal action taken against it or of any finding or sanction imposed on the broker-dealer as a result of any self-regulatory or regulatory action involving fraud, theft, deceit, misrepresentation or similar conduct; and disclose to its clients in the state that the broker-dealer and its salespersons are not subject to the full regulatory provisions in the Oregon Securities Law.  (7) A salesperson of a Canadian broker-dealer licensed under this rule shall:  (a) Maintain his or her provincial or territorial registration in good standing;  (b) Inform the director forthwith of any criminal action, taken against him or her, or of any finding or sanction imposed on the salesperson as a result of any self-regulatory or regulatory action involving fraud, theft, misrepresentation or similar conduct.  (8)(a) Renewal applications for Canadian broker-dealers and salespersons under this rule must be filed by January 1 of each calendar year following the date of original licensing.  (b) Renewal applications may be made by filing the most recent renewal application, if any, filed in the jurisdiction in which the broker-dealer has its head office, or if no such renewal application is required, the most recent application filed pursuant to subsection (3)(a) or (4)(a) of this rule.  (9) Every applicant for licensing or renewal licensing under this rule shall pay the applicable non-refundable fee for broker-dealers and agents as set in OAR 441-175-0002.  (10) A Canadian broker-dealer or salesperson licensed under this rule may only effect transactions in this state as permitted in sections (1) or (2) of this rule with or through:  (a) The issuers of the securities involved in the transactions;  (b) Other broker-dealers;  (c) Banks, savings institutions, trust companies, insurance companies, investment companies as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, pension or profit-sharing trusts, or other financial institutions or institutional buyers, whether acting for themselves or as trustees; or  (d) As otherwise permitted pursuant to the Oregon Securities Law.  (11) A Canadian broker-dealer or agent licensed under this rule and acting in accordance with the limitations set out in section (10) is exempt from all of the requirements of the Oregon Securities Law, except the anti-fraud provisions and the requirements set out in this rule. Such Canadian broker-dealer or salesperson may only have its notice filing under this rule denied, suspended or revoked for a breach of the anti-fraud provisions in ORS 59.135 or the requirements in this rule. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 59.285 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 59.175 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FSR 1-2016, f. & cert. ef. 3-7-16 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 1-2004, f. & cert. ef. 5-19-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 2-2003(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 11-26-03 thru 5-21-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 FCS 5-2001, f. & cert. ef. 6-7-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
