



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Agriculture 
 Chapter 603 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 27 SALE BY WEIGHT OR MEASURE 
 603-027-0655 
 National Type Evaluation Program 
 
 (1) The term "National Type Evaluation Program" shall be construed to mean a program of cooperation between the National Institute of Standard and Technology, the National Conference on Weights and Measures, the State, and the private sector for determining, on a uniform basis, conformance of a type with the relevant provisions of National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbook 44, "Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices," National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbook 105-1, "Specifications and Tolerances for Reference Standards and Field Standard Weights and Measures, specifications and Tolerances for Field Standard Weights (NIST Class F)," National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbook 105-2, "Specifications and Tolerances for Reference Standards and Field Standard Weights and Measures, Specifications and Tolerance for Field Standard Measuring Flask," or National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbook 105-3, "Specifications and Tolerances for Reference Standards and Field Standard Weights and measures, Specifications and Tolerances for Graduated Neck Type Volumetric Field Standards."  (2) Type Evaluation: The term "type evaluation" shall be construed to mean the testing, examination, and/or evaluation of a type by a Participating Laboratory under the National Type Evaluation Programs.  (3) Type: The term "type" shall be construed to mean a model or models of a particular measurement system, instrument, element, or a field standard that positively identified the design. A specific type may carry in its measurement ranges, size, performance, an operating characteristics as specified in the Certificate of Conformance.  (4) Participating Laboratory: The term "participating laboratory" shall be construed to mean any State Measurement Laboratory that has been certified by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in accordance with its program for the Certification of Capability of state Measurement Laboratories, to conduct a type evaluation under the National Type Evaluation Program.  (5) Certificate of Conformance: The term "certificate of conformance" shall be construed to mean a document issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology or the National Conference on Weights and Measures based on testing in participating laboratories, said document constituting evidence of conformance of a type with the requirements of National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbooks 44, 105-1, 105-2, 105-3.  (6) Director: The term "director" means the Director of the Department of Agriculture.  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 561 & 618 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 618.156 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOA 19-2010, f. & cert. ef. 9-14-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AD 20-1990, f. & cert. ef. 10-25-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
