



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Transportation 
 Delivery and Operations Division - Chapter 734 
 
 
 
 
 Division 20 TRAFFIC CONTROL 
 734-020-0320 
 Standards for Installation and Operation of Emergency Preemption and Bus Priority Systems 
 
 (1) The traffic control signal owner is responsible for the installation, operation and maintenance of signal preemption devices unless otherwise agreed to by a traffic control signal owner and a traffic control signal operator.  (2) The traffic control signal owner or operator may install signal preemption devices to control signal operations at specific intersections, for arterial corridors or for defined geographic areas.  (3) The emergency preemption and bus priority system approval authority and process is as follows:  (a) The traffic control signal owner has approval authority for emergency preemption systems. Entities operating emergency vehicles must make a written request to the traffic control signal owner for authorization to use a traffic control signal operating device. If this is an additional use, the incremental cost, if any, shall be allocated to the additional users;  (b) The traffic control signal owner has approval authority for bus priority systems. The traffic control signal owner and transit authority shall sign an agreement that covers cost, installation, operation, maintenance and use. If this is an additional use, the incremental cost, if any, shall be allocated to the additional users; and  (c) No emergency preemption system or bus priority system shall be installed until an engineering study has been approved by the traffic control signal owner. The study should consider the needs of the road authority; local transportation plans; and the impact on safety, the efficiency and response times of emergency response operations and traffic flow. If a bus priority system is being considered, the engineering study must also consider the impact on the efficiency of public transit operations.  (4)(a) The traffic control signal owners and operators will operate the preemption system giving the priority established by OAR 734-020-0330 unless they enter into a signed Memorandum of Understanding with authorized users that documents the following:  (A) Agreement on the use and operation of the emergency preemption system by authorized users and the traffic control signal systems owners and operators. Agreement can include any concessions or operational adjustments including but not limited to addressing the weight, operating speed, and braking distance of vehicles, corridor congestion impacts, or assigning multiple priorities to different classes or types of emergency vehicles.  (B) When considering assigning multiple priorities for emergency vehicles, entities using emergency vehicles and traffic control signal system owners and operators will address allocating additional costs to users and the signal system owners and operators.  (b) New authorized users wanting to operate within the emergency preemption system agreed upon and documented within a signed Memorandum of Understanding must do so within the bounds of the Memorandum unless the traffic signal owner agrees to reopen the Memorandum.  (5) Operating requirements for signal preemption devices and traffic control signal operating devices are as follows:  (a) All signal preemption devices and traffic control signal operating devices shall be tested by the Oregon Department of Transportation and approved for use;  (b) Where multiple users of traffic control signal operating devices are authorized, the signal preemption device shall recognize and respond to the priority of each user as established by OAR 734-020-0330;  (c) Actuation of a bus priority system is available only if the system has not been preempted by an emergency vehicle call. Bus priority operation will be immediately canceled when an emergency preemption call is received;  (d) A traffic control signal operating device shall not continue to control the traffic control signal once the vehicle has entered the intersection or if a vehicle remains stationary for more than two minutes; and  (e) Neither emergency preemption nor bus priority shall terminate an active pedestrian or vehicular clearance interval.  (f) Entities operating emergency vehicles will provide training for all drivers in the operation and limitations of emergency preemption systems.  (g) Lights and sirens on emergency vehicles must be activated when the traffic control signal operating device is activated.  (h) Traffic control signal operating devices shall be deactivated when the emergency vehicle’s transmission is set in park or the parking brake is engaged. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 810.260 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 810.260, 815.440 & 815.445 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HWD 9-2010, f. & cert. ef. 8-27-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 TO 4-1998, f. & cert. ef. 4-16-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
