



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Human Services 
 Aging and People with Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities - Chapter 411 
 
 
 
 
 Division 46 BEHAVIOR SUPPORT SERVICES 
 411-046-0120 
 Eligibility 
 
 (1) Individuals must meet the following requirements to receive Behavior Support Services:  (a) Be eligible for home and community-based care services provided through APD; and  (b) Be receiving services through either State Plan K Community First Choice or Independent Choices.  (2) Behavior Support Services may be provided to eligible individuals noted in (1) above who may benefit from the service or have caregivers who may benefit from the service based on the individual's functional needs assessment that is performed by the case manager. An eligible individual includes, but is not limited to:  (a) An individual at risk of requiring behavior interventions;  (b) An individual whose caregiver requests assistance in developing person-centered interventions;  (c) An individual with a placement failure related to their behavior;  (d) An individual at risk of involuntary move out or who has received an eviction notice;  (e) An individual receiving Medicaid service payments to support behavior interventions, such as a behavior add-on or an exception; or  (f) An individual whose provider receives a payment for costs associated with interventions needed to address the individual’s challenging behaviors.  (3) All Behavior Support Services must be pre-authorized by:  (a) The eligible individual’s case manager; or  (b) A Department authorized placement in a home or community-based care setting where the Medicaid service payment includes Behavior Support Services.  (4) Eligible individuals, or their designated representative, may request or refuse to participate in Behavior Support Services. Consultation may still be provided to the care provider. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 410.070 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 410.070 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APD 17-2014, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
