



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division - Chapter 437 
 
 
 
 
 Division 4 AGRICULTURE 
 437-004-1180 
 Accident Prevention Signs 
 
 (1) Scope. This section applies to the design, application and use of signs or symbols (as included in paragraphs (3) through (5) below) to warn of specific hazards. This does not apply to bulletin boards or safety posters.  (2) Definitions. Sign — A surface marked to warn people of hazards, or to give safety instructions. Excluded are news releases, safety posters and bulletins.  (3) Classification of signs by use.  (a) Danger signs.  (A) Use signs of uniform design to warn of specific dangers and radiation hazards.  (B) Instruct all employees that danger signs warn of immediate danger and that special precautions are necessary.  (b) Caution signs.  (A) Use caution signs only to warn of hazards or to caution against unsafe practices.  (B) Instruct all employees that caution signs warn of a hazard against which they should take precautions.  (c) Safety instruction signs. Use safety instruction signs for general instructions and suggestions about safety.  (4) Sign design.  (a) Design features. Use signs with rounded or blunt corners and no sharp edges, burrs, splinters or other sharp projections. Place the ends or heads of bolts or other fastening devices so that they are not hazardous.  (b) Danger signs. The color of the background must be red.  (c) Caution signs. The color of the background must be yellow and the panel, black with yellow letters. Use black letters against the yellow background.  (d) Safety instruction signs. Use white for the background and make the panel green with white letters. Any letters used against the white background must be black.  (e) Slow-moving vehicle emblem. This emblem (see fig. 7) has a fluorescent yellow-orange triangle with a dark red reflective border. The reflective border defines the shape of the fluorescent color in daylight and creates a hollow red triangle in the path of motor vehicle headlights at night.  (A) Use this emblem only on vehicles that by design move at 25 m.p.h. or less on public roads. Do not use it as a clearance marker for wide machinery to replace required lighting or marking of slow-moving vehicles. The material, location, mounting, etc., of the emblem must conform to the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Emblem for Identifying Slow-Moving Vehicles, ASAE R276, 1967, or ASAE S276.2 (ANSI B114.1-1971). [Figure not included. See ED. NOTE.]  (5) Sign wordings.  (a) Nature of wording. Use wording on signs that is easily understandable.  (b) Biological hazard signs. Use the biological hazard warning sign to warn of the actual or potential presence of a biohazard. Use it to mark equipment, containers, rooms, materials, experimental animals or combinations of them, that contain or are contaminated with viable hazardous agents. For this subparagraph the term “biological hazard,” or “biohazard,” means only those infectious agents presenting a risk or potential risk to the well-being of humans.  NOTE: All dimensions are in inches.  [ED. NOTE: Figures referenced are available from the agency.]  [Publications: Publications referenced are available from the agency.] 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 654.025(2) & 656.726(3) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 654.001 - 654.295 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSHA 4-1998, f. 8-28-98, cert. ef. 10-1-98 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
