



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Insurance Regulation - Chapter 836 
 
 
 
 
 Division 24 DOMESTIC INSURERS; ORGANIZATION; CORPORATE PROCEDURES 
 836-024-0053 
 Filings Required in an Election Contest 
 
 (1) A solicitation may not be made by a person other than the issuer unless a statement in duplicate containing the information specified by Schedule B and a copy of any material proposed to be distributed to security holders in furtherance of the solicitation is filed with the Director by or on behalf of each participant in the solicitation. The statement and material must be filed with the Director at least five business days prior to the solicitation or a shorter period authorized by the Director upon a showing of good cause.  (2) Within five business days after a solicitation subject to this rule is made by the issuer, or within a longer period that the Director authorizes on a showing of good cause, a statement in duplicate containing the information specified by Schedule B shall be filed with the Director by or on behalf of each participant in the solicitation, other than the issuer, and by or on behalf of each management nominee for director.  (3) If a solicitation on behalf of the issuer or another person has been made, or if proxy material is ready for distribution, prior to a solicitation subject to this rule in opposition, a statement in duplicate containing the information specified in Schedule B shall be filed with the Director, by or on behalf of each participant in the prior solicitation, other than the issuer, as soon as it is reasonably practicable after the commencement of the solicitation in opposition.  (4) If, subsequent to the filing of the statements required by sections (1) to (3) of this rule, additional persons become participants in a solicitation subject to this rule, a statement in duplicate containing the information specified by Schedule B shall be filed with the Director by or on behalf of each such person within three business days after the person becomes a participant, or within a longer period that the Director authorizes upon a showing of good cause.  (5) If any material change occurs in the facts reported in a statement filed by or on behalf of a participant, an appropriate amendment to the statement shall be filed promptly with the Director. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 731 & 732 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 732.415(4) 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ID 16-2006, f. & cert. ef. 8-7-06 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 IC 68, f. & ef. 6-22-76 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
