



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Housing and Community Services Department 
 Chapter 813 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 28 HOUSING PRESERVATION FUND PROGRAM 
 813-028-0080 
 Noncompliance 
 
 (1) At any time before the expiration of the affordability period, if the Department determines that a recipient is not in compliance with applicable requirements, the recipient shall take corrective actions required by the Department. Examples of noncompliance include but are not limited to the use of fund moneys for activities not approved in the funding agreement, the failure to complete activities in a timely manner, the failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or the lack of a continued capacity by the recipient to carry out the approved activities. The Department may take one or more of the actions described in section (3) of this rule against a recipient who does not take the required corrective actions to the satisfaction of the Department.  (2) In addition to or in lieu of a requirement of corrective action under section (1) of this rule, the Department may take one or more of the actions described in section (3) of this rule against a recipient who is not in compliance with applicable requirements if the Department determines that one or more of the following circumstances exist:  (a) The Department or recipient has not disbursed moneys within one year of award by the Department.  (b) A public or private party funding agreement that is related to the project is not executed within six months of the award of moneys from the fund.  (c) A material breach of the funding agreement occurs, such as a failure to use the funds for eligible costs or a failure of the recipient to serve the population stated in the funding agreement.  (d) The funding agreement is not recorded on the property as required by OAR 813-028-0040(2)(c) or pursuant to agreement.  (e) The Department finds that significant corrective actions are necessary to protect the integrity of the award money and that the corrective actions are not or will not be made within a reasonable time.  (3) The Department may take one or more of the following actions under this rule:  (a) Prohibit a recipient from applying for future moneys from the fund or for other Department assistance;  (b) Revoke an existing award.  (c) Withhold unexpended moneys.  (d) Require return of moneys disbursed to the recipient but not yet expended by the recipient.  (e) Require repayment of expended moneys.  (f) Payment of any legal cost associated with a review of non-compliance.  (g) Invoke other remedies that may be incorporated into the funding agreement.  (4) Actions that the Department may take under this rule are cumulative and not exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under a funding agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 456.555 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  2009 OL Ch. 906 Sec. 5 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 11-2010, f. & cert. ef. 8-23-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OHCS 5-2010(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 2-25-10 thru 8-23-10 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
