



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of State Lands 
 Chapter 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 88 RULES GOVERNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF RESTRICTIONS ON THE PUBLIC RECREATIONAL USE OF STATE-OWNED LAND 
 141-088-0002 
 Definitions 
 
 (1) “Asset Management Plan” is the plan adopted by the State Land Board that provides the policy direction and management principles to guide both the short and long-term management by the Department of the Common School Fund’s real estate assets.  (2) “Department” means the Department of State Lands.  (3) “Director” means the Director of the Department of State Lands or designee.  (4) “Emergency” means a human created or natural event or circumstance that causes or threatens:  (a) Human life, health or safety;  (b) Loss of, or damage to property;  (c) Loss of, or damage to natural, historical, cultural or archaeological resources; or  (d) Damage to the environment.  (5) “Firearm”, as defined in ORS 166.210(3), means a weapon, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a projectile by the action of powder.  (6) “Limited Duration” means a public recreational use of state-owned land that does not exceed 30-calendar days in the same location.  (7) “Non-Trust Land” is land owned or managed by the Department other than Trust Land. Examples of Non-Trust Land include state-owned Swamp Land, and state-owned submerged and submersible land (land below ordinary high water) under navigable and tidally influenced waterways.  (8) “Person” includes individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and joint stock companies as well as any state or other governmental or political subdivision or agency, public corporation, public authority, or Indian Tribe.  (9) “Public Recreational Use” or “Public Recreational Uses” are those recreational activities that a person may conduct on state-owned land managed by the Department without having to obtain a prior authorization from the Department as required by these or other administrative rules adopted by the State Land Board. Such uses include, but are not limited to, limited duration hunting, fishing, sightseeing, wildlife observation, hiking, boating, swimming, camping and picnicking.  (10) “Removal” means a removal as defined in ORS 465.200.  (11) “Remedial Action” means a remedial action as defined in ORS 465.200.  (12) “State Land” or “State-Owned Land” is land owned or managed by the Department or its agents and includes Trust and Non-Trust Land.  (13) “Submerged Land” means land lying below the line of ordinary low water of all title navigable and tidally influenced waters within the boundaries of the State of Oregon.  (14) “Submersible Land” means land lying above the line of ordinary low water and below the line of ordinary high water of all title navigable and tidally influenced waters within the boundaries of the State of Oregon.  (15) “Trust Land” or “Constitutional Land” is all land granted to the state for the use of schools upon its admission into the Union, or obtained by the state as the result of an exchange of Trust Land, or obtained in lieu of originally granted Trust Land, or purchased with trust funds, or obtained through foreclosure of loans using trust funds. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 183, 273 & 274 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 273 & 274 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 2-2015, f. 5-6-15, cert. ef. 6-1-15 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DSL 5-2009, f. & cert. ef. 6-23-09 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
