



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Corrections 
 Chapter 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 72 ID CARDS (AIC) 
 291-072-0010 
 Procedures
 
 
 (1) ID Card Issuance:   

 (a) The Department of Corrections shall issue an AIC identification card to each AIC upon their delivery to the Oregon Corrections Intake Center or other designated Department of Corrections facility.   

 (b) If identification cards must be issued after hours, staff shall follow the institution photo ID card process. 

 (c) All identification cards, except for the AIC release card, shall use the AIC’s court or legal name. AIC release cards will use the true name if it is validated in the DOC 400 Corrections Information System (CIS). 

 (d) Management plan indicators may be printed on the back of the identification card. 

 (2) Identification Card Categories: 

 (a) Temporary Identification Cards: 

 (A) AIC paper identification card: paper color determined by institution 

 (B) LOP or STM on active restrictions: Yellow 

 (C) Conduct order: Pink 

 (D) Lost or damaged identification card: Green (an orange card may be used for Level 1) 

 (E) Privileges while using a temporary identification card will be determined by the institution. 

 (F) Bar codes may be attached to the back of temporary identification card for AIC tracking purposes. 

 (b) AIC Release Card: White PVC with green band fading to white 

 (c) Fire Crew Card: Yellow PVC 

 (d) Level 1: Orange PVC 

 (e) Level 2: White PVC with red band fading into white 

 (f) Level 3: Level 2 identification card with silver, holographic tamper resistant “NCI 3” sticker 

 (3) Identification Card Display: Once issued an AIC identification card, an AIC must always display it on their person via a method determined by the functional unit manager, except in designated areas of the facilit y or during activities expressly authorized by the functional unit manager . Each functional unit manager may designate areas of the facilities or activities during which AICs may not be required to display their cards; such as, in the immediate vicinity of their assigned housing area, during a recreation activity, or while attending a work assignment where it may pose a risk of safety hazard. AICs will be required to maintain their identification cards on their person until the time of discharge or release from a Department of Corrections facility. 

 (4) Identification Card Replacement: 

 (a) An identification card that supervising correctional staff determine requires replacement to correct inaccurate information shall be replaced by the Department without cost to the AIC . 

 (b) An identification card that supervising correctional staff determine requires replacement to reflect a material change in the AIC ’s appearance shall be replaced by the Department without cost to the AIC.   Staff will use reasonable efforts to review AIC photos on identification cards every two years to determine whether they need updating . 

 (c) An identification card that supervising correctional staff determine has been damaged, destroyed, altered or lost by an AIC shall be replaced by the Department. The AIC’s trust account will be assessed a charge of five dollars for the replacement identification card. 

 (d) The Department will issue a replacement identification card to an AIC at the AIC’s request to reflect a change in the AIC’s legal name.   The AIC’s trust account may be assessed a charge of five dollars for the replacement identification card. 

 (5) Electronic Tracking Technology Systems (ETTS):   ETTS using AIC identification cards are authorized for use in Department of Corrections facilities at the discretion of the functional unit manager based on facility needs. 

 (6) Visual Identifiers: Visual identifiers are authorized for use in conjunction with AIC identification cards in Department of Corrections facilities at the discretion of the functional unit manager or designee based on facility needs. 

 (7) Disciplinary Action: An AIC will be subject to disciplinary action for the following conduct associated with an identification card, ETTS, or visual identifiers: 

 (a) unauthorized use of an identification card; 

 (b) failure to surrender an identification card when directed to do so by a Department of Corrections or Oregon Corrections Enterprises employee , volunteer, or contractor staff; or 

 (c) unauthorized use of ETTS or visual identifiers. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 179.040, 423.020, 423.030 & 423.075 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 23-2020, amend filed 11/23/2020, effective 11/23/2020 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOC 8-2001, f. & cert. ef. 3-21-01 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CD 6-1991, f. & cert. ef. 2-19-91 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 CD 16-1990(Temp), f. & cert. ef. 9-4-90 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
