



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Justice 
 Chapter 137 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 49 MODEL RULES GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 137-049-0880 
 Records Maintenance; Right to Audit Records 
 
 (1) Records Maintenance; Access. Contractors and subcontractors shall maintain all fiscal records relating to Contracts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, Contractors and subcontractors shall maintain all other records necessary to clearly document: (i) their performance; and (ii) any claims arising from or relating to their performance under a Public Contract. Contractors and subcontractors shall make all records pertaining to their performance and any claims under a Contract (the books, fiscal records and all other records, hereafter referred to as "Records") accessible to the Contracting Agency at reasonable times and places, whether or not litigation has been filed as to such claims.  (2) Inspection and Audit. A Contracting Agency may, at reasonable times and places, have access to and an opportunity to inspect, examine, copy, and audit the Records of any Person that has submitted cost or pricing data according to the terms of a Contract to the extent that the Records relate to such cost or pricing data. If the Person must provide cost or pricing data under a Contract, the Person shall maintain such Records that relate to the cost or pricing data for 3 years from the date of final payment under the Contract, unless a shorter period is otherwise authorized in Writing.  (3) Records Inspection; Contract Audit. The Contracting Agency, and its authorized representatives, shall be entitled to inspect, examine, copy, and audit any Contractor's or subcontractor's Records, as provided in section 1 of this rule. The Contractor and subcontractor shall maintain the Records and keep the Records accessible and available at reasonable times and places for a minimum period of 3 years from the date of final payment under the Contract or subcontract, as applicable, or until the conclusion of any audit, controversy or litigation arising out of or related to the Contract, whichever date is later, unless a shorter period is otherwise authorized in Writing. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 279A.065 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 279A.030, 279C.375, 279C.380 & 279C.440 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DOJ 11-2004, f. 9-1-04, cert. ef. 3-1-05 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
