



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Department of Consumer and Business Services 
 Building Codes Division - Chapter 918 
 
 
 
 
 Division 309 ELECTRICAL PERMITS AND FEES 
 918-309-0080 
 Temporary Electrical Permit Rule 
 
 (1) Authority and Scope of Rule. This rule:  (a) Is required by ORS 479.550;  (b) Applies to the Building Codes Division and all municipalities that enforce the electrical laws;  (c) Can only be used by a licensed electrical contractor.  (2) Definitions. For the purposes of this rule only, the following definitions are adopted:  (a) “Emergency Electrical Work” is an acute, unplanned and immediate need for electrical repair or replacement involving an existing electrical installation or product or both;  (b) “Licensed Electrical Contractor” or “Contractor” means any type of electrical contractor licensed by the Building Codes Division;  (c) “Jurisdiction” means the Building Codes Division, a municipality enforcing the electrical laws or municipality issuing electrical permits having authority over the electrical work;  (d) “Unanticipated Electrical Work” is electrical work, including a new installation, requested by a customer where the timing of a request for commencement of work does not reasonably allow the contractor time to obtain an electrical permit before starting the work:  (A) This includes, but is not limited to, additional work assigned at the work site as well as preassigned work when the customer requests service at an unplanned date or time;  (B) This does not include electrical work where a permit already exists covering all or part of the work.  (3) Temporary Permit. A jurisdiction shall recognize the existence of a temporary electrical permit when the contractor encounters “emergency electrical work” or “unanticipated electrical work,” complies with section (4) of this rule and does electrical work.  (4) Temporary Permit Procedures. The contractor must comply with subsection (a) of this section and with one of the requirements of subsections (b) to (d) of this section:  (a) Prior to commencing work, the contractor shall fill out a standard form electrical permit application for any jurisdiction, identify the proper jurisdiction, identify the contractor, and provide the electrical contractor and Construction Contractors Board identifications:  (A) The standard permit application form covering electrical installations can be used in any transaction, except the fees shall be that of the jurisdiction where the work is done;  (B) A restricted energy electrical application can only be used if the work is strictly covered by that permit;  (C) The temporary permit must be signed by the journeyman or technician that does the work or by a supervising electrician;  (D) A copy must be posted at the job site marked “temporary permit,” showing the starting work date and the ending date of the temporary permit. The ending date shall not be more than seven days from the starting date.  (b) FAX a copy to the jurisdiction and mail the original with proper payment to the jurisdiction all within five days of the start of the work;  (c) If the jurisdiction does not have a FAX machine, telephone the jurisdiction informing it of the time, place and type of work that was started within 24 hours of the opening for business by the jurisdiction, and mail a copy of the completed application and payment within seven days of the start of the work; or  (d) If the jurisdiction has a recording device, call in the time, place and type of work within 12 hours of the start of work and complete the electrical permit application and payment within seven days of the start of the work.  (5) If bulk label or minor label procedures are appropriate for the electrical installation and are allowed by the jurisdiction, those procedures may be followed in lieu of the requirements of this rule.  (6) An inspection shall be requested at any time following the temporary permit procedures. A jurisdiction may, but is not required to, require permit fees before providing an inspection.  (7) Burden of Proof and Assumed Risks. The contractor who uses this rule has:  (a) The burden of proving that an “emergency” or “unanticipated electrical work” existed which justified using this rule; and  (b) Assumes all risks that are inherent with starting electrical installations before review and approval by the jurisdiction.  (8) In addition to civil penalties that may be assessed for violation of this rule, the use of this rule may be suspended, restricted or denied to a contractor who violates this rule more than once. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 479.540(1), 479.550 & 479.730(5) 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 479.550 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 12-2014, f. 9-30-14, cert. ef. 10-1-14 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCD 19-1996, f. 9-17-96, cert. ef. 10-1-96, Renumbered from 918-260-0265 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 BCA 17-1992, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-92 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
