



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Health Authority 
 Public Health Division - Chapter 333 
 
 
 
 
 Division 11 VITAL STATISTICS 
 333-011-0255 
 Infants of Unknown Parentage 
 
 (1) A report for a minor child of unknown parentage found in Oregon shall be registered in the current format for births.  (2) If the minor child is less than one year of age, the hospital where the child is examined shall submit the report of live birth in the state’s electronic reporting system.  (3) If the minor child is more than one year of age, the agency who has assumed custody of the child shall submit a request to locate birth record to the state registrar. The request shall include:  (a) A statement that the child is a possible foundling;  (b) All information available on the identity of the child and parents for the purpose of identifying the birth record;  (c) Whether the agency will be able to locate evidence to support a delayed record of birth if a birth record is not identified;  (d) Whether an expedited denial is requested for the purpose of obtaining a court order to register the birth.  (4) If the agency requests expedited denial, the state registrar shall review the information available and determine whether a birth record can be identified. If no birth record can be identified based on the information provided by the agency and the agency cannot provide additional documentation to support a delayed record of birth, the state registrar shall issue a denial of the request.  (5) If the agency later identifies the child’s parents, the agency shall notify the state registrar within 10 days of the additional information. If a previously registered record is identified with the child’s information, the record registered under this rule shall be voided. If no registered record with the parent information is found, the agency shall amend the court order to register the birth to include the names, dates of birth and places of birth of the parents. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 432.108 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 432.108 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PH 17-2013, f. 12-26-13, cert. ef. 1-1-14 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
