



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Secretary of State 
 Archives Division - Chapter 166 
 
 
 
 
 Division 150 COUNTY AND SPECIAL DISTRICT RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE 
 166-150-0185 
 Public Works Records — Traffic Engineering and Maintenance Records
 
 
 (1) Bridge and Culvert Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents maintenance and repairs on bridges and culverts, including pedestrian and bicycle bridges. Records may include summaries, reports, logs, and related records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports. Minimum retention: (a) Records with engineering stamps documenting structural maintenance or repairs, 2 years after bridge or culvert permanently removed from service; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (2) Bridge Inspection Records: Series documents bridge inspections required by the U.S. Department of Transportation per 23 CFR 650. Records may include reports prepared in accordance with federal standards, photographs, bridge inventory records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after bridge removed from service. 

 (3) Crosswalk Records: Series documents the location and use of crosswalks. Records may include reports, maps, studies, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 (4) Railroad Crossing Records: Series documents agency activities in relation to railroad crossings. Records may include crossing plans and drawings, Oregon Public Utility Commission (PUC)/Oregon Dept. of Transportation (ODOT) public hearings records and rulings, PUC/ODOT inspection report corrective actions, reports and studies, accident records, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Permanent. 

 (5) Special Event Traffic Change Records: Series documents preparation for and implementation of traffic changes related to special events such as parades, motorcades, and demonstrations. Records may include notifications, planning documents, reports, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Special Event and Celebration Records. Minimum retention: 2 years after event. 

 (6) Speed Zone Establishment and Review Records: Series documents the establishment and review of speed zones (includes zones established by the agency under OAR 734-020-0013). Records may include reports, photographs, proposals, orders, maps, accident summaries, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 (7) Street and Road Condition Inventory Records: Series documents the condition of streets, roads, curbs, shoulders, sidewalks, bikeways, alleys, etc. Minimum retention: 5 years after annual audit report issued. 

 (8) Street Banner Records: Series documents proposals for and installations of banners on streets, often in relation to civic events or celebrations. Records may include plans, maps, proposals, reports, applications, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years. 

 (9) Street Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents maintenance and repairs of agency-owned streets and sidewalks by agency personnel or contracted workers. Records may include reports, summaries, and similar documents usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports; and Contract, Lease, and Agreement Records. Minimum retention: (a) Records requiring an engineering stamp, 10 years after substantial completion [as defined by ORS 12.135]; (b) All other records, 2 years. 

 (10) Street Surface Maintenance Records: Series documents routine and special street sweeping, cleaning, snow removal, sanding, leaf removal, and similar work. Records may include reports, summaries, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual audit report issued. 

 (11) Streetlight Inventory Records: Series documents inventory records of all streetlights in an area. Records may include purchase and installation documentation, notes, and related documentation. Minimum retention: Until superseded or obsolete. 

 (12) Streetlight Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents maintenance and repairs on streetlights. Records may include reports, summaries, and similar records usually compiled from daily work records on a monthly or quarterly basis. SEE ALSO: Activity Reports. Minimum retention: 3 years after annual audit report issued. 

 (13) Streetlight Request and Survey Records : Series documents requests by citizens for the installation of streetlights, as well as surveys to assess need and feasibility. Records may include request forms, surveys, reports, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after last action. 

 (14) Traffic Accident Analysis Records: Series documents the study of traffic accidents. Records may include various statistical data on accidents related to fixed objects, parked automobiles, complicated intersections, bridges, pedestrians, streets/highways/roads, and other factors. SEE ALSO: Survey Field Records. Minimum retention: (a) Reports and summaries, 10 years; (b) All other records, 5 years. 

 (15) Traffic Control Equipment Inventory Records: Series documents the location, type, and use of traffic control equipment. Minimum retention: 2 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 (16) Traffic Control Equipment Maintenance and Repair Records: Series documents maintenance and repair of traffic signals and signs in an area. Records may include reports, summaries, and related documentation. Minimum retention: (a) Traffic signals, 2 years after equipment permanently removed from service; (b) Traffic sign records, 2 years. 

 (17) Traffic Research and Study Records: Series documents data gathering and analysis concerning traffic patterns, speed, direction, and other topics. Records may include information on vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians for a given location and period of time, machine and manual traffic counts, reports, summaries, and related documentation. SEE ALSO: Agency Improvement Administrative and Financial Records; and Engineering Project Technical Records. Minimum retention: (a) Reports and summaries, 10 years; (b) All other records, until information is summarized or obsolete. 

 (18) Transit System Records: Series documents transit system routes, stops, stations, and crossings in a particular geographic area, as well as related transit schedules and amenities. Records may include reports, surveys, decision statements, notifications to affected individuals and property owners, and records related to agency review and approval of individual stops or crossings proposed by a transit district. SEE ALSO: Meeting Records, Governing Body; and Ordinance Records. Minimum retention: (a) Review records, 2 years after denied or approved and stop or crossing removed; (b) Transit system maps, until superseded or obsolete. 

 (19) Truck Route Records: Series documents the designation of truck routes for transporting goods within and through a particular geographical area. Records may include reports, maps, studies, and related documentation. Minimum retention: 2 years after superseded or obsolete. 

 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 192.005–192.170 & ORS 357.805–357.895 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 7-2025, amend filed 11/05/2025, effective 11/05/2025 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 3-2012, f. & cert. ef. 10-29-12 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSA 4-2004, f. & cert. ef. 9-1-04 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
