



 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State Administrative Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 


 Skip to main content. 
 
 
 
 Oregon Secretary of State 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Home 
 Business 
 Voting 
 Elections 
 State Archives 
 Audits 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 OARD Home 
 Search Current Rules 
 Search Filings 
 Access the Oregon Bulletin 
 Access the Annual Compilation 
 FAQ 
 
 Rules Coordinator / Rules Writer Login 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon Department of Aviation 
 Chapter 738 
 
 
 
 
 
 Division 90 AIRPORT LISTINGS 
 738-090-0050 
 Information to be Considered in Determining Airport Listings 
 
 The Board shall consider the information listed below in determining whether an airport meets the criteria in ORS 836.610(1)(b). The Department shall provide this information to the Board.  (1) To determine whether an airport provides important links in air traffic in this state, the Board shall consider, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) Number and type of based aircraft;  (b) Annual operations;  (c) Whether an airport is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airports System as identified by the FAA;  (d) Classification of the airport in the state aviation system plan;  (e) The location of the airport in relation to other airports in the area and whether the airport is remote due to geographic features;  (f) Whether the location of the airport is conducive to providing an efficient alternative mode of transportation and has adequate links to other modes of transportation;  (g) Whether the airport is used frequently by businesses as an origination, transfer or destination airport; and  (h) Whether the airport relieves congestion at other airports.  (2) To determine whether an airport provides essential safety or emergency services, the Board shall consider, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) Whether the location of the airport makes it operationally feasible for efficient use as a search and rescue base and the history of its use as a search and rescue base;  (b) Whether the airport is an emergency landing location due to its geographic location;  (c) Whether the airport provides medical evacuation support due to its proximity to significant highway and transportation corridors and its geographic location;  (d) Whether the airport may be used as a location for fire patrol and suppression aircraft and activities and the history of the airport's use for such activities; and  (e) Whether the airport is a location for law enforcement operations or law enforcement training.  (3) To determine whether an airport is of economic importance to the county where the airport is located, the Board shall consider, but is not limited to, the following information:  (a) Whether the airport supports the economy of the county by providing aviation facilities for aeronautical related activities or businesses, including, but not limited to, hangars, tie downs, maintenance and training facilities;  (b) Whether the airport provides jobs;  (c) Whether the airport provides support to local business and/or governmental agencies. Examples include, but are not limited to, agricultural operations, destination resorts, forest operations, charter flights, military operations and cargo operations;  (d) Whether the airport supports a residential airpark;  (e) Whether the airport provides a location for aeronautic recreation, including but not limited to, aircraft displays, parachuting, ultralights and tourism activities;  (f) Whether the airport provides location for educational opportunities, such as flight instruction; and  (g) Any comments by the county or others relating to the economic importance of the airport to the county. 
 
 
 
 
 Statutory/Other Authority:  ORS 184.616, 184.619 & 836.610 
 
 
 Statutes/Other Implemented:  ORS 836.610 
 
 History: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AVIA 4-2002, f. 11-27-02, cert. ef. 12-1-02 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 AERO 1-1999, f. & cert. ef. 3-25-99 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 Please use this link to bookmark or link to this rule. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 v2.1.7
 
 
 
 
 System Requirements 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility Policy 
 Oregon Veterans 
 Oregon.gov 
 
 
 
 
 Oregon State Archives • 
 800 Summer Street NE • 
 Salem, OR 97310
 
 Phone: 503-373-0701 • 
 Fax: 503-373-0953 • 
 Adminrules.Archives@sos.oregon.gov 
 
 
 © 2026 Oregon Secretary of State All Rights Reserved
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
