                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 1:       Administration                                             POLICY: 1.015

SUBJECT:         Notarial Services

POINT PERSON:    Benefit Coordinators Unit
                 Manager

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                                     DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                               Minor/technical revision of
                                                          existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will support notary services when provided in
      accordance with applicable Oregon Revised Statute (ORS), Oregon
      Administrative Rules (OAR), and this policy.
   B. This policy applies to all staff and notary services provided to patients or at OSH.

II. POLICY
   A. Whenever possible, a notary should notarize within their scope of work and as
      authorized in their position description.
      1. In accordance with ORS 194.350, a notary may not give advice regarding the
         subject to be notarized.
      2. A notary is responsible to maintain their journals and stamp in accordance
         with this policy and applicable regulations, including ORS 194.290, ORS
         194.295, and ORS 194.300.
   B. A notary must follow standard notarial rules and regulations when performing
      notarial services for persons other than patients.
   C. Staff, including notaries, must follow Attachment A when requesting and
      providing notary services at OSH, for OSH business-related purposes, or during
      a notary’s work hours.
   D. When requesting notary services for a patient, staff must obtain all necessary
      approvals before making the request in accordance with Attachment A.
   E. A notary’s manager must follow the process in Attachment B.
 Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 1.015
              Notarial Services
 Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                P AGE 2 OF 2

         1. The manager must notify Legal Services and Human Resources of a new
            notary.
         2. The notary’s manager must notify Legal Services at the end of a notary’s
            employment with OSH.
   F. Legal Services will maintain a list of notaries at OSH.
   G. Legal Services will maintain journals after the end of the notary’s employment in
      accordance with applicable ORS.
   H. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
      and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
      (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
      relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
      this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
   I. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Notary” in this policy means an OSH employee who is commissioned to be a
      notary with the State of Oregon.
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A        OSH Notarial Services Process
   Attachment B        OSH Notary Public Manager Duties

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS

VI. REFERENCES
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 160-100-0360.
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 160-100-0310.
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 160-100-0340.
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 160-100-0110.
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 160-100-0200.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 194.
