                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 5:         Human Resources Management                                  POLICY: 5.005

  SUBJECT:           Staff-Owned Equipment

  POINT PERSON:      Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operations Officer

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                                     DATE: JUNE 7, 2023

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                                 Minor/technical revision of
                     New policy
                                                              existing policy

                     Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) guidelines for staff-owned
         equipment while conducting business for OSH.
      B. This policy does not apply to staff-owned vehicles. Staff-owned vehicles may
         only be used per OSH policy 6.006, “Vehicle Usage,” and applicable Department
         of Administrative Services or Shared Services policies and regulations.
      C. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Staff may not use personally owned equipment to conduct OSH business including,
         but not limited to, patient treatment, unless an exception is authorized as delineated
         in this policy or other Department of Administrative Services (DAS) or Shared
         Services policies.
      B. Staff may request an exception to this policy in writing from the Superintendent or
         designee, the appropriate member of the Executive Team, and department director
         or Program Director when the following conditions exist:
         1. the equipment is not available at OSH;
         2. the equipment can be operated safely and meets required safety standards;
         3. the equipment is not directly used by patients; and
         4. the staff member accepts liability for damage to, or loss of, equipment.
       SUBJECT: Staff-Owned Equipment                                    POLICY NUMBER: 5.005

       DATE:     June 7, 2023                                                       PAGE 2 OF 3

        C. If the Superintendent or designee, the appropriate member of the Executive Team,
           and department director or Program Director approve the request for an exception,
           they must authorize their approval in writing before staff use the equipment.
        D. For safety, security, and patient privacy reasons, staff may not use personally owned
           cellphones in patient care areas or when patients are present with them. With the
           exception of break times, staff may only use personal cellphones to make brief
           phone calls during working hours as allowed by Shared Services policy 060-037,
           “Use of State Property.” Departments may establish additional restrictions for safety
           reasons.
        E. All information on any device used while conducting state business (e.g., any text,
           browsing history) is discoverable under public records requests state laws.
        F. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
           and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
           (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
           relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
           this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
        G. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
           may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.    DEFINITIONS
        A. “Patient care area” is as defined in OSH policy 5.017, “Dress Code for Staff.”
           Patient care area for the purpose of this policy means any portion of the facility
           wherein a patient is intended to be examined or treated.
        B. “Personally owned equipment” in this policy means equipment owned by staff
           such as cellphones, tools, supplies, or other items. In this policy, equipment does not
           include books.
        C. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
           and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV.     PROCEDURES

V.      ATTACHMENTS

VI.     RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
        3.002 Electrical Equipment and Resource Conservation
        5.017 Dress Code for Staff
        8.034 Property Claims for Employee Personal Property
       SUBJECT: Staff-Owned Equipment                                            POLICY NUMBER: 5.005

       DATE:       June 7, 2023                                                               PAGE 3 OF 3

        8.006 Vehicle Usage

VII.    REFERENCES
        Department of Administrative Services. Liability self-insurance policy manual, 125-7-201. Author.

        Shared Services. Use of state property, DHS-060-037. Author.
