                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                                  POLICY: 6.052

SUBJECT:          Trauma Screening

POINT PERSON:     Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                         DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                               Minor/technical revision of
                                                           existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy


I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) recognizes a patient may have trauma risk factors
      related to abuse, neglect, exploitation, or other adverse experiences. Therefore,
      OSH will screen each patient for trauma according to the principles of “universal
      design” and person-centered care. A trauma screening tool such as Attachment
      A of this policy will be used.
   B. This policy applies to all staff who work directly with patients.

II. POLICY
   A. Assessments completed during the admission process and ongoing
      assessments will include a review of past trauma experiences such as abuse,
      exploitation, and neglect.
      1. Staff must demonstrate sensitivity when assessing a patient for trauma.
      2. Staff must offer the patient trauma-specific and trauma-sensitive services or
         resources as needed.
   B. A member of the interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT) will review a patient’s
      trauma history documented in assessments before IDT meetings to address in
      the patient’s treatment care plan as necessary.
   C. Staff who work directly with patients will be knowledgeable about the long-term
      effects of psychological trauma in order to provide trauma-informed services that
      promote hope, safety, and recovery.
 Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 6.052
             Trauma Screening
 Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                  P AGE 2 OF 3

    D. OSH will offer trainings or professional development opportunities on trauma-
       informed approach and trauma-sensitive services to address initial, secondary, or
       vicarious trauma, abuse, exploitation or neglect, identification of internal or
       external triggers, risk factors, and treatment considerations.
    E. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
       rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
       and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
       standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
       policy is more restrictive.
    F. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
       may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
    A. “Person-centered care” recognizes that OSH places the person served at the
       center of treatment. HCP will collaborate with persons served to help them
       identify their hopes and dreams, understand their strengths and abilities, and
       recognize their needs and challenges.
    B. “Psychological trauma” refers to the cluster of symptoms, adaptations, and
       reactions that interfere with the functioning of an individual who has experienced
       extreme suffering as a result of: severe physical abuse or injury; neglect and
       deprivation; sexual abuse or exploitation; witnessing or surviving severe violence;
       or emotional abuse.
    C. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
       and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
    D. “Trauma-informed approach” is the demonstrated understanding of the profound
       neurological, biological, psychological, and social effects of trauma and violence
       on the individual and an appreciation for the high prevalence of traumatic
       experiences in persons who receive mental health and addiction services.
    E. “Trauma-sensitive services” are not specifically designed to treat symptoms or
       syndromes related to sexual, physical, or emotional abuse, other trauma, or
       neglect or exploitation, but they are services that are informed about, and
       sensitive to, trauma-related issues present in survivors. “Trauma-informed
       organizations, programs, and services are based on an understanding of the
       vulnerabilities or triggers of trauma survivors that traditional service delivery
       approaches may exacerbate, so that these services and programs can be more
       supportive and avoid re-traumatization” (SAMHSA). Trauma-sensitive services
       demonstrate a Universal Design approach to service delivery.
    F. “Trauma-specific services” are designed to treat the actual consequences of
       trauma, recognize adaptive ‘symptoms’, and the importance of collaborative,
 Subject:                                                                   Policy Number: 6.052
               Trauma Screening
 Date:
               July 25, 2024                                                         P AGE 3 OF 3

         person-directed treatment. These are the specific treatment and care
         interventions provided to a particular individual based on his or her identified
         needs.
   G. “Universal design” presumes that every person in a treatment setting has been
      exposed to abuse, violence, neglect, exploitation or other traumatic experiences.
      This perspective then informs all day-to-day interactions, creating a safe
      environment where people can more easily engage the healing and recovery
      process provided through treatment and care.
         NOTE: These definitions should be interpreted so that they are consistent with the rules
         of the Oregon Health Authority, as well as national best practices and literature
         regarding these terms.

IV. ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A         Primary Care (PC) PTSD Screen

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.011 Treatment Care Planning
   7.008 Patient Abuse or Mistreatment Allegation Reporting

VI. REFERENCES
   Addictions & Mental Health Division. Trauma-informed and trauma-specific services. Retrieved from:
      http://www.oregon.gov/oha/amh/pages/trauma.aspx
   Jennings, A. (2008). Models for developing trauma-informed behavioral health systems and trauma-specific
      services. Retrieved from: https://duckduckgo.com/l/?kh=-
      1&uddg=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.theannainstitute.org%2FMDT.pdf
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, PC 01.02.09. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Oregon Department of Human Services Addictions and Mental Health Division. (2006, February).
      Trauma policy. Retrieved from: http://www.oregon.gov/oha/amh/pages/trauma.aspx
   Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration. (2014, May 5). National center for trauma
      informed care and alternatives to seclusion and restraint. Retrieved from:
      http://www.samhsa.gov/nctic/
