                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                            POLICY
 SECTION 8:        Safety, Security, Emergency                                POLICY: 8.023
                   Management

 SUBJECT:          Parking and Parking Registration

 POINT PERSON:     Director of Security

 APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                               DATE: DECEMBER 17, 2024

                   Interim Superintendent

 SELECT ONE:




I. APPLICABILITY STATEMENT
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will establish parking guidelines and designate
      parking spaces on OSH campuses for motorized vehicles, electric vehicle (EV)
      charging, motorcycles, and bicycles in accordance with state and city regulations.
      Only the Superintendent or appointed authority may designate reserved parking
      spaces.
   B. This policy applies to all staff, including employees, volunteers, trainees, interns,
      contractors, vendors, and other state employees assigned to work at OSH.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH Security will monitor campus grounds to verify vehicles, motorcycles and
      bicycles are parked in accordance with this policy and will act as outlined in this
      policy and related procedures to address parking violations.
   B. All staff must register vehicles which regularly park on OSH grounds as
      delineated in attached parking registration procedures.
   C. Staff must abide by reserved parking spaces indicated by signage. Failure to do
      so will result in a parking violation. Parking violations will be handled in
      accordance with procedures attached to this policy.
       1. Staff may park in visitor-designated parking spaces between the hours of
          8:00 p.m. – 07:00 a.m.
SUBJECT:    Parking and Parking Registration                          POLICY NUMBER 8.023
DATE:       December 17, 2024                                                   PAGE 2 OF 3

        2. Staff may not park a personally owned vehicle in “State Vehicle Only” parking.
        3. Staff may not park in museum parking area.
        4. “Administration Only” parking is reserved for Executive Leadership, their
           special guests, and the Oregon Health Authority Director.
        5. Only persons with current disabled parking placards may park in designated
           disabled parking spaces. Current placards must be displayed at all times if
           staff are parked in a disabled parking space. All vehicles illegally parked in
           disabled parking areas will be reported to appropriate city or state officials.
            a. Persons with current disabled parking placards may park in visitation
                parking if no designated disabled parking spaces are available.
        6. Only EVs may park in designated EV parking spaces. EVs may only be
           recharged at the pay-to-charge stations provided by OSH.
            a. EVs may only be parked in EV parking spaces while they are actively
                charging. If not charging, EVs must be parked in regular staff parking.
        7. Only motorcycles may park in designated motorcycle parking spaces.
        8. Recognized staff selected for designated employee recognition parking
           spaces may park in the space assigned with the employee recognition
           parking tag visibly hanging from the rear-view mirror or displayed on dash.
            a. Staff who receive the Recognized Employee parking space and who
                decide to loan the space to another staff must give that staff the parking
                recognition tag to hang on their mirror and notify reception.
        9. Bicycles must be parked at designated bicycle parking areas. Bicycles that
           are abandoned, in disrepair, or found outside of the bicycle parking areas on
           OSH property will be removed, impounded, and sent to volunteer services.
   E. Motorized vehicles must park within the designated lines and may not take up
      more than one parking space, this includes parking over the line. Vehicles should
      not extend over the sidewalk or divider.
   F. Motorized vehicles may not be parked in or on lawns, sidewalks, walkways,
      emergency vehicle lanes, dirt paths, or any other area not designated for vehicle
      parking.
   G. Overnight camping in vehicles on OSH property is prohibited.
   H. Per Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 167.310 to ORS 167.350, animals may not
      be left in parked vehicles on OSH property.
   I. Personally owned vehicle maintenance or repair, except for changing tires,
      lockouts, or towing, is prohibited.
        1. Staff must notify Reception or the Security Utility Team if their car is unable to
        be moved from the OSH lot due to maintenance issues.
SUBJECT:    Parking and Parking Registration                         POLICY NUMBER 8.023
DATE:       December 17, 2024                                                PAGE 3 OF 3

   J. Vehicles that are abandoned on OSH property will have a 24-hour vehicle
      noticed affixed by the Oregon State Police. If the vehicle is not removed within
      the 24-hour period, the vehicle will be removed and towed at the owner’s
      expense.
   K. OSH assumes no liability for damages incurred to vehicles towed. The vehicle
      owner will be liable for all towing costs and storage fees.
   N. This policy does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by public police, fire,
      or airport security agencies or designated by the Director of Transportation or by
      a federal agency as an emergency vehicle.
   O. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   P. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors, and
      other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).



IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Parking Registration

V. ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A       Parking Registration Form

VI. REFERENCES
   Oregon Revised Statutes §§ 98.805—98.992.
   Oregon Revised Statutes §§ 167.310—167.350.
   Junction City Uniform Traffic Ordinance Chapter 10.05 §010-450.
   Salem Revised Code Title 09 § 100—102.
