                    OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 4:       Fiscal                                                   POLICY: 4.007

SUBJECT:         Asset Management

POINT PERSON:    Chief Financial Officer

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                               DATE: JANUARY 15, 2025

                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                             Minor/technical revision of
                                                        existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy       Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) systems and procedures for
      asset management.
   B. This policy applies to all OSH staff involved with procurement and inventory
      recordkeeping.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH follows the Department of Administrative Services Oregon Accounting
      Manual.
   B. OSH will maintain a system for asset accounting and control to:
      1. Safeguard assets within OSH against unauthorized use or removal,
      2. Provide accurate accounting of all State of Oregon assets owned and
         operated by OSH, including the reconciling and annual reporting of all Capital
         Assets,
      3. Assign responsibility to the Materials Distribution Warehouse (MDW) for asset
         control and management of all Capital Assets,
      4. Assign responsibility to the Business Office for annual inventory reporting and
         distribution,
      5. Assist the Superintendent in the effective management and accountability of
         property and equipment assets.
 Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 4.007
              Asset Management
 Date:
              January 15, 2025                                               P AGE 2 OF 3

   C. Staff must follow the attached procedures of this policy for all matters in asset
      inventory, tracking, and record maintenance.
         1. Information technology assets are tracked and maintained according to OSH
            Policy 1.005 “Information Technology Hardware and Software - Purchasing
            and Use,” and Office of Information Services (OIS) protocol.
   D. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Asset” refers to capital and non-capital assets.
   B. “Capital Asset” means tangible or intangible property used in agency operations
      having an initial estimated useful life of more than one year and an initial cost
      (including ancillary charges) of $5,000 or more.
   C. “Non-Capital Asset” means tangible or intangible property used in agency
      operations with an initial estimated useful life of one year or more, and an initial
      cost (including ancillary charges) of less than $5,000.
   D. “Property Disposition Request (PDR)" means a form that must be completed
      when an asset is no longer needed or usable for any reason, and removal from
      the property inventory record is necessary.
   E. “Property Inventory Record (PIR)” or “Capital Asset Property List (CAPL)" means
      a computer-generated list of assets which identifies each property, pertinent
      information regarding each property, and current location for each property.
   F. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital.

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Asset Inventory, Tracking, and Record Maintenance

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.003 Incident Reporting
   1.005 Information Technology Hardware and Software - Purchasing and Use
 Subject:                                                                  Policy Number: 4.007
               Asset Management
 Date:
               January 15, 2025                                                      P AGE 3 OF 3

VI. REFERENCES
   Department of Administrative Services. Oregon accounting manual. Retrieved from
         https://www.oregon.gov/das/Financial/Acctng/Pages/OAM.aspx
   Department of Administrative Services. Oregon accounting manual. Non-capital assets, 15.55.00.
         Author. Retrieved from https://www.oregon.gov/das/Financial/Acctng/pages/OAM.aspx#acctng
   Oregon Revised Statute § 278.011.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 278.050.
