                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                                POLICY: 6.001

SUBJECT:          Patient Transfers

POINT PERSON:     Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                  DATE: JANUARY 15, 2025

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                                 Minor/technical revision of
                                                            existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy           Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) treats patients in the most appropriate and least
      restrictive setting possible. This policy describes the requirements for relocation
      (transfer) of patients between units at OSH, both inter-campus and intra-campus.
   B. This policy applies to direct care and administrative staff that may be involved in
      initiating and/or coordinating patient unit transfers.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH determines patient transfers based upon clinical or administrative need and
      must take the following into consideration:
      1. the receiving unit’s ability to meet the patient’s medical and psychiatric needs,
         including any necessary environmental factors and staff skill level;
      2. potential risks and benefits to the patient; and
      3. continuity of care.
   B. The patient must be informed about a planned transfer as soon as possible,
      except when clinically contraindicated (e.g., there is concern of imminent risk of
      harm to self or others if the patient knows about the transfer).
   C. If there is a disagreement or significant clinical concern regarding a transfer:
      1. Staff must follow Procedures E, “Elevation Process.” Staff may express pre-
         or post-transfer concerns to their program executive team (PET).
Subject:                                                              Policy Number: 6.001
              Patient Transfers
Date:
              January 15, 2025                                                  P AGE 2 OF 5

        2. If there is a significant clinical concern that is medical in nature, the patient
           must not transfer until the concern is resolved. This may include but is not
           limited to medical needs or concerns, psychiatric needs, environmental
           factors, and/or staff skill level that could be detrimental to the patient
           transferring to a specific unit.
        3. The patient may use the grievance process per OSH policy 7.006, “Patient
           Grievances,” if they disagree with the transfer.
  D. A transfer on or off a unit closed for contagious illness quarantine, on either
     campus, requires Chief Medical Officer (CMO) or Chief of Medicine (COM)
     approval.
  E. The CMO or the COM may authorize, halt, or delay a transfer at any time if
     deemed clinically necessary.
  F. For transfers between units or campuses, the patient may not attend off-unit
     Treatment Mall groups or activities until the first calendar day following the day of
     transfer.
        1. An exception to this restriction may be made if an RN-to-RN hand-off
           communication occurs between the unit and the Treatment Mall and the
           patient is assessed as appropriate for immediate attendance.
  G. Staff must follow Procedures A, “Transfer Process” to complete all clinical and
     administrative transfers.
  H. Clinical Transfer
        1. A clinical transfer may be initiated due to clinical need and includes emergent
           transfers, medical treatment bed transfers, medically protected transfers, and
           other patient movement that is not an administrative transfer.
        2. A clinical transfer may be initiated for a medically complex case where a
           patient requires a greater degree of medical or nursing care than most OSH
           patients, which may include but is not limited to:
           a. ongoing diagnostic workup;
           b. evaluation of unexplained physical symptoms;
           c. wound care, casting or splinting, management of intravenous or port
              access, etc.;
           d. follow-up care after hospitalization for a medical condition within the last
              30 days.
 Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 6.001
              Patient Transfers
 Date:
              January 15, 2025                                             P AGE 3 OF 5

         3. Clinical transfers, except as noted below, must be initiated by the referral
            process (Attachment A) and are coordinated by the Admissions Department.
         4. Staff must follow Procedures A and Procedures B, “Inter-campus Transfer” to
            complete a transfer between Salem and Junction City OSH campuses.
         5. Staff must follow Procedures C, “Medical Treatment Beds” to complete a
            transfer for additional medical treatment.
         6. If outside of regular business hours, the Psychiatrist On Duty (POD), Program
            Nurse Manager (PNM), and Program Director (PD) must consult and may
            authorize an emergent transfer if deemed clinically necessary. The Medical
            Clinic Physician On Duty (MOD) must be included in the consultation if there
            is a medical need.
   I. Emergent Transfers
         1. An emergent transfer may be initiated outside of regular business hours due
            to significant safety, security, or medical concerns, that cannot follow
            standard transfer processes. Staff must follow Procedures D, “Emergent
            Transfer.”
   J. Administrative Transfers
         1. Administrative transfers may be required due to organizational needs,
            including but not limited to census management, reorganization, and
            environmental or life safety requirements.
         2. The Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent, CMO, or any designees may
            authorize the PDs, in collaboration with the PETs, Interdisciplinary Teams
            (IDTs), and the Admissions Department to arrange administrative transfers to
            address the need.
   K. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   L. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Environmental factors” means the unit’s environment can support the clinical
      needs of the patient. Examples may include, but are not limited to mobility
      needs, fall risk supports, and barriers that prevent required patient observation.
  Subject:                                                        Policy Number: 6.001
              Patient Transfers
  Date:
              January 15, 2025                                             P AGE 4 OF 5

    B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
       and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

 IV. PROCEDURES
    Procedures A       Transfer Process
    Procedures B       Inter-Campus Transfer
    Procedures C       Medical Treatment Bed Transfer
    Procedures D       Emergent Transfer
    Procedures E       Elevation Process

 V. ATTACHMENTS
    Attachment A       Transfer Request Form
    Attachment B       Patient Transfer Tracker
    Attachment C       Patient Transfer Process Map

 VI. RELATED OSH FORMS
    Treatment Care Plan Addendum [76061, Medical Record Form]

VII. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
    1.001 Policy System at OSH
    2.013 Electronic Health Record Access
    2.014 Medical Record Maintenance and Transportation
    6.011 Treatment Care Planning
    6.035 Medication Reconciliation
    6.042 Short-Term Assessment of Risk and Treatability
    6.045 Clinical Documentation
    7.006 Patient Grievances
    Nursing Services Protocol 2.160 "Transfer - Unit to Unit and Between Campuses"

VIII. REFERENCES
    42 CFR §482.12(d)(5)(i)
Subject:                                                               Policy Number: 6.001
            Patient Transfers
Date:
            January 15, 2025                                                     P AGE 5 OF 5

  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025) The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
          for behavioral health and human services, CTS.06.02.01, CTS.06.02.03, CTS.06.02.05.
          Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025) The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
          for hospitals, PC.04.01.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025) The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
          for hospitals, PC.04.02.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
