Public Health Division
Protocol Deviation and Noncompliance

Investigators are responsible for conducting human subject’s research in accordance with all
applicable federal and state regulations, as well as the specific requirements of the Public Health
Institutional Review Board (PH IRB). Once PH IRB approval has been obtained for a research
protocol and its supporting documents (consent form, authorization form, data collection tools, etc.),
changes may not be made unless prospective review and approval by the PH IRB is granted.
Meaning, the research team must request approval for any proposed changes to the PH IRB
approved documents by submitting a Project Revision/Amendment Form (PRAF) and applicable
documents in “tracked changes” form. The only exception to this rule involves emergency action by
an investigator to protect subjects from apparent immediate hazards.

Definitions:
Protocol Deviation: Any alteration or modification in the conduct of the research that has NOT been
approved by the PH IRB prior to its initiation or implementation.
   - Minor deviation: Does not have a significant impact on the research participants’ rights,
       safety or welfare; the integrity of the data; nor does it substantially alter the expected risks to
       subjects as determined by the PH IRB.
   - Major deviation: May impact the participants’ rights, safety or welfare; the integrity of the
       data; or may substantially alter the expected risks to subjects as determined by the PH IRB.

Noncompliance: Failure to comply with federal regulations or the requirements or determinations of
the PH IRB.
    - Continuing non-compliance: Repeated instances of noncompliance by the investigator.
    - Serious non-compliance: Instances that pose an increased risk to the safety, rights and
       welfare of research participants including when investigators either avoid or ignore PH IRB
       policies and fail to comply with PH IRB requirements/determinations and/or federal
       regulations.

Reporting Requirements:
Formal reports using the PH IRB Protocol Deviation/Non-compliance Report Form must be made by
the Principal Investigator to the PH IRB within the following timeframes:
    • Minor deviations must be reported to the PH IRB within ten working days of their
        occurrence or within ten working days of the Principal Investigator becoming aware of their
        occurrence.
    • Major deviations must be reported to the PH IRB within five working days of their
        occurrence or within five working days of the Principal Investigator becoming aware of their
        occurrence.
    • Non-compliance must be reported as soon as the Principal Investigator becomes aware,
        however, it is important to note that non-compliance will typically be recognized by the PH
        IRB itself and thus a report will be requested by the IRB for submission to account for the
        continuous non-compliance.
    • If any of the above involve significant harm or risk of significant harm to a subject, the
        Principal Investigator must make a report to the PH IRB within 24 hours of discovery.

It is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator to determine whether a deviation is minor or
major in nature and to ensure proper reporting to the PH IRB. However, the PH IRB Administrator
will review and analyze the report to ensure the description of the occurrence aligns with the context


                                                                                            Rev. May 2026
of the report. All submitted reports should be routed by the Principal Investigator to their study
sponsor as outlined in the sponsor’s protocol.

PH IRB Review of Submitted Reports:
Upon receipt of the report, the PH IRB Administrator will conduct an extensive preliminary review
and assessment to ensure the description of the occurrence aligns with the context of the report,
including what the Principal Investigator has distinguished it as. Revisions may be requested. Once
vetted for accuracy and completeness, the report will be forwarded to the PH IRB Chair and/or Vice
Chair along with a detailed summary, a recommendation for next steps, and a draft determination
memo. Either the Chair, Vice-Chair, or a designated PH IRB Board member of their choosing will
then provide a formal review, comparing what occurred to the PH IRB approved protocol. At that
time, the Principal Investigator may be asked to respond to further questions. Any minor
modifications to the protocol or supplemental study documentation that result due to the event, may
be reviewed and approved in accordance with expedited procedures by the reviewer. If any resulting
modifications are more-than minor in nature however, they must be brought forward to the Full
Board. E-mail review and approval will be permissible due to the quick turnaround required for such
situations. Additionally, if the PH IRB Administrator is not present to provide the pre-review, that
step may be bypassed.

Notification of Review and Determination:
A decision regarding the seriousness of the deviation or non-compliance will be made, including
what corrective action, if any, to take. Once approved, a copy of the final determination memo will
be sent to the P.I. explaining the details of the PH IRB review and expected next steps, whether or
not proposed changes have been approved or if further changes are needed, who else, if anyone will
be notified, and in some cases whether or not there will be an increase in reporting requirements, or
if the study is suspended or terminated. If a suspension or termination of PH IRB approval occurs, a
report must be made to OHRP via the Office for Human Research Protections’ Incident Report
Form. The report and its conclusions, including the formal PH IRB determination memo, will either
be presented at the next scheduled PH IRB Full Board meeting or shared with the Full Board
promptly via e-mail. If at that time, additional actions are requested, the research team will be
notified.

In the case of minor deviations, if next steps or additional corrective actions are identified in the
memo or by the Full Board, investigators will have 30 calendar days to respond. Non-response will
constitute non-compliance, and subject recruitment may be suspended, or the project may be
terminated. In the case of major deviations, if next steps or additional corrective actions are
identified in the memo or by the Full Board, investigators will have 15 calendar days to respond.
Again, non-response will constitute non-compliance, and the subject recruitment may be suspended,
or the project may be terminated. It is important to note that major deviations and serious or
continuing non-compliance may lead to immediate protocol suspension or termination by the PH
IRB, but only after consultation with, and agreement by, the Full Board.

Additional Reporting:
Any serious or continuing non-compliance will be reported by the PH IRB to the Office for Human
Research Protections (OHRP) and the sponsoring federal department or agency head. The reporting
requirements in 45 CFR 46 do not specify a time frame, except to say it must be done in a “prompt”
manner. In some instances, it may be appropriate for the PH IRB to submit an initial report to
OHRP, indicating that a follow-up or final report will follow by a specific date, or when a final
determination has been made.


                                                                                         Rev. May 2026
   -   Office for Human Research Protections’ Incident Report Form

Applicable Regulations
45 CFR 46.108 and 46.113
21 CFR 56.108 and 56.113




                                                                     Rev. May 2026
