                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                            POLICY
SECTION 8:         Safety, Security, Emergency                                  POLICY: 8.016
                   Management

SUBJECT:           Civil or Internal Disturbance
                   Response

POINT PERSON:      Director of Security

APPROVED:          Sara Walker, MD                                       DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                   Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                                   Minor/technical revision of
                   New policy
                                                              existing policy

                   Reaffirmation of existing policy           Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This policy and its attached procedures concerns staff training, preparedness,
      and expected actions in the case of a civil of internal disturbance.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. Any civil or internal disturbance that results in a large-scale violent situation on
      Oregon State Hospital (OSH) property must be reported by staff to appropriate
      OSH and emergency response personnel as directed in Procedures A.
   B. If the scope of the disturbance becomes a hospital emergency, the Emergency
      Operations Plan may be initiated by the Superintendent or designee.
   C. Training on response to violent or potentially violent situations will be provided to
      all new staff in the security portion of new employee orientation (NEO). For staff
      that do not attend NEO, contact Safety and Security Director or their designee to
      coordinate and accomplish required training. All training is provided by Security.
      1. Trainings will include:
           a. How to assess violent or potentially violent civil or internal disturbances;
           b. How to report civil or internal disturbances;
           c. To whom to report civil or internal disturbances;
 Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 8.016
              Civil or Internal Disturbance Response
 Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                  P AGE 2 OF 2

            d. What to report;
            e. How to assess violent civil or internal disturbance situations and agitated
               violent persons;
            f. How to intervene to minimize danger to self and others; and,
            g. Legal responsibilities and liabilities.
   D. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Civil or internal disturbances” for the purpose of this policy means large-scale
      events, such as riots, that jeopardize the immediate physical safety of patients,
      staff, or others, but does not include individual patient events able to be resolved
      internally.
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A        Civil or Internal Disturbance Response

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   Oregon State Hospital Emergency Operations Plan (2022-2023)
   1.003 Incident Reporting
   8.040 Acute Milieu Emergency
