                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                             POLICY
  SECTION 5:       Human Resource Management                                   POLICY: 5.016

  SUBJECT:         Adults in Custody Workforce

  POINT
                   Director of Operations
  PERSON:

  APPROVED:        Dolores Matteucci                                    DATE: APRIL 6, 2023

                   Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                           Minor/technical revision of existing
                     New policy proposal
                                                        policy
                     Reaffirmation of existing policy   Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH) procedures for a workforce
         of adults in custody working at OSH.
      B. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) may use an adult in custody worker for special
         projects or temporarily for work normally completed by permanent staff until
         requests for positions can be made through the budgetary process. OSH may not
         assign an adult in custody worker a task that could be assigned to a patient-
         supported employment position.
      B. The OSH Operations department is responsible for the adults in custody
         workforce, including coordinating with the Department of Corrections (DOC) and
         approving adults in custody worker positions in collaboration with the
         Superintendent or designee.
      C. Staff must follow Procedures A when requesting and overseeing an adult in
         custody worker.
      D. Mill Creek Correctional Facility (MCCF) guards and adults in custody must follow
         OSH policy 2.003 regarding infectious disease management.
SUBJECT: Adults in Custody Workforce                           POLICY NUMBER: 5.016

DATE:      April 6, 2023                                                   PAGE 2 OF 3

  E. MCCF must provide the following documentation to the OSH Infection Prevention
     and Employee Health Department (IPEH) for both the adults in custody and
     guards:
     1. Influenza vaccination status for the current influenza season,
     2. Tuberculosis infection status as per Oregon Administrative Rule 333-019-
        0041 and in accordance with IPEH processes, and
     3. Hepatitis B immunization status.
  F. An adult in custody must:
     1. sign the OSH confidentiality statement (OSH-STK 76113) before beginning
        work at OSH;
     2. wear an OSH-issued name badge during the work shift as per OSH policy
        8.007, “Identification Badges;”
     3. obtain a food handler card before beginning work at a kitchen;
     4. receive training on standard precautions and personal protective equipment;
     5. receive training about chemicals and where to locate safety data sheets; and
     6. complete the orientation provided by OSH Facilities department.
  G. An adult in custody may not:
     1. have unsupervised interaction with or association with patients,
     2. access any staff or patient information,
     3. be employed to substitute for state staff,
     4. perform reception duties,
     5. use telephones, computers, or fax machines,
     6. leave OSH grounds without a correctional guard escort, or
     7. use power tools unless the adult in custody has received documented and
        approved training to operate the equipment and is provided instruction on
        using required personal protective equipment.
  H. Any program or department using adult in custody workers must have a staff at
     the worksite who has completed the MCCF “Adult in Custody Worker” training.
  I. A staff member who has strong objections to working in close proximity to an
     adult in custody worker must be accommodated to the degree possible.
        SUBJECT: Adults in Custody Workforce                             POLICY NUMBER: 5.016

        DATE:       April 6, 2023                                                   PAGE 3 OF 3

          J. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
             and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
             (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
             relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
             this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
          K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
             may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

 III.     DEFINITIONS
          A. “Adult(s) in custody” in this policy means any person working at OSH through the
             Adult in Custody Work Program under the supervision of the Department of
             Corrections (DOC) and who is not on parole, post-prison supervision, or
             probation status. Adults in custody in this policy does not refer to Oregon State
             Hospital patients.
          B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
             and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV.       PROCEDURES
          Procedures A       Adult in Custody Worker Process

 V.       ATTACHMENTS

VI.       RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
          2.003 Infectious Disease Management for Staff
          2.017 Influenza Prevention
          5.020 Staff and Adult in Custody Worker Relationships
          8.007 Identification Badges
          Oregon State Hospital Confidentiality and Access Agreement (OSH-STK 76113)
             [form].

VII.      REFERENCES
          Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-019-0010.

          Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-019-0041.

          Oregon Revised Statute § 421.408.
