                  OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                            POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

SECTION 8:   Safety, Security, Emergency Management                     POLICY: 8.014

SUBJECT:     Room, Unit, Treatment Mall Searches

POINT
             SAFETY & SECURITY DIRECTOR
PERSON:

APPROVED:    DOLORES M ATTEUCCI                                  DATE: March 20, 2019
             SUPERINTENDENT


I. POLICY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will maintain a safe and secure treatment
      environment by implementing guidelines for unannounced and scheduled
      searches of patient rooms, units, and treatment malls. All searches will be a
      collaborative effort between Security, other health care personnel (HCP), and
      patients. This policy does not apply to environmental checks or other related
      processes directed by Nursing Services protocols.
   B. A search may only be conducted if authorized by the appropriate program
      director or treatment mall manager. If the program director is unable to be
      reached to authorize the search, the Safety and Security Director may authorize
      the search.
   C. An unannounced search may be conducted as needed in response to
      reasonable cause to suspect presence of contraband, prohibited item(s), missing
      item(s), or for other identified safety, security, or treatment risks.
   D. An unannounced search of each unit and treatment mall will be conducted at
      least annually by the Safety and Security Department to locate potential
      contraband, prohibited items, and safety hazards.
   E. Security must notify the relevant program director and treatment mall manager
      prior to a search being conducted.
   F. Before a patient’s room is searched, the patient must be informed of the search.
      The patient must be given opportunity to monitor the room search process.
   G. Common areas may be searched without patients being present.
   H. HCP must follow Procedures A, “Room Search Process,” to conduct a room
      search. At least two HCP must be present during any room search.
   I. HCP must follow Procedures B, “Unit Search Process,” to conduct a unit search.
SUBJECT:    Room, Unit, Treatment Mall Searches                       POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE:       March 20, 2019                                                       PAGE 2 OF 3

   J. HCP must follow Procedures C, “Treatment Mall Search Process,” to conduct a
      treatment mall search.
   K. If a personal search of a patient is considered to be necessary during a room,
      unit, or treatment mall search, HCP must follow OSH Policy and Procedures
      8.041, “Personal Searches”.
   L. Found contraband or prohibited items must be handled in accordance with the
      procedures in OSH Policies and Procedures 8.019, “Staff Response to Alleged
      Criminal Acts and Contraband”; 8.037, “Patient Property and Valuables: Handling
      and Storage”; 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items”; and Oregon
      Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-0015.
   M. Upon authorization from the Superintendent, the Safety and Security Director
      may enlist assistance from the Department of Corrections Search Team.
   N. A HCP who fails to comply with this policy or related procedures may be subject
      to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

II. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Chain of custody” means an unbroken, documented trail of accountability
      that proves the physical security, including movement and location, of an
      item.
   B. "Contraband" has the same definition as that in OSH Policy and Procedure
      8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items.”
   C. “Health care personnel (HCP)” for the purposes of this policy means the
      population of health care workers working in the OSH healthcare setting. HCP
      might include, but is not limited to: physicians, nurses, nursing assistants,
      therapists, technicians, dental personnel, pharmacists, laboratory personnel,
      students and volunteers, trainees, contractual staff not employed by the
      facility, and persons not directly involved in patient care (e.g., clerical, dietary,
      housekeeping, maintenance).
   D. “Prohibited items” has the same meaning as that in OSH Policy and
      Procedure 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items”.
   E. “Reasonable cause” means a person has knowledge, notice of facts or
      circumstances which would lead a person of ordinary care and prudence to
      have strong suspicion.

III. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A      Room Search
   Procedures B      Unit Search
   Procedures C      Treatment Mall Search
SUBJECT:    Room, Unit, Treatment Mall Searches                             POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE:       March 20, 2019                                                             PAGE 3 OF 3

IV. FORMS
   Search Report Form S020-T3
   Search Supplement Form S020-T4

V. REFERENCES
   42 CFR §482.13(c).
   Oregon Administrative Rules §§ 309-108-000 — 309-108-0020.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 162.135.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 162.185.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Contraband and prohibited items, 8.044.
      Author.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Incident reporting, 1.003. Author.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Patient property and valuables, 8.037. Author.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Patient rights, 7.005. Author.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Personal searches, 8.041. Author.
   Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Staff response to alleged criminal acts and
      contraband, 8.019. Author.
PROCEDURES A Room Search                                            POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE             March 20, 2019                                              PAGE 1 of 2


  Responsible
                                                Procedures
 Person/Group
Nurse manager       When a room search is deemed necessary in accordance with OSH
(or designee)       Policy 8.014:
                    1. Request authorization from the program director for patient room
                       search. Provide the following information to the program director:
                       a. reasonable cause to suspect the presence of contraband,
                          prohibited items, or drugs; or
                       b. the security or safety risk that poses a danger to patients or
                          others.
                    2. Determine if additional staff will be necessary for the search.
                    3. Contact Security manager or designee to coordinate the search, if
                       necessary.
                    4. Designate a HCP to lock the patient’s room until the search is
                       conducted.
                    5. Establish a chain of custody for contraband or prohibited items
                       located during room search.
                    6. Communicate results to the program director.
Program director    1. Review search request.
                    2. Authorize the search if deemed necessary.
                    3. Review search results.
Security Director   1. Coordinate Security assistance.
or manager          2. Develop plan with HCP about scope of search, search plan, and
                       possible risks.
                    3. Assign or lead a Security team to assist with room search.
                    4. Review and assist with documentation of chain of custody,
                       evidence handling, and incident reports from Security staff.
                    5. If contraband or prohibited items are found, follow OSH Policies
                       and Procedures 8.019, “Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts
                       and Contraband”; 8.037, “Patient Property and Valuables:
                       Handling and Storage”; 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited
                       Items”; and Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-0015.
Security staff      1. Complete search according to established plan.
                    2. Complete incident reports as necessary per OSH Policy and
                       Procedure 1.003, “Incident Reporting”.
PROCEDURES A Room Search                                           POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE          March 20, 2019                                                PAGE 2 of 2


MHT, nurse,      1. Coordinate resources to assist with the unannounced search with
or MHST             the on-shift Security manager.
                 2. Inform the patient of the search and offer the patient opportunity
                    to observe the search.
                 3. Conduct a security check of the patient as outlined in OSH Policy
                    and Procedure, 8.041, “Personal Searches.”
                 4. Allow the patient to be present for the room search by:
                    a. Placing a chair about two feet from the patient’s room door to
                        sit on or stand by. The patient may not enter the room until the
                        search is complete.
                    b. Search the patient’s property inside of the room.
                    c. Return the patient’s property to original state or location.
                 5. Remove any prohibited items, contraband, or missing equipment
                    from patient’s room.
                 6. Document the reason for the search and any outcome of concern
                    in the patient’s medical record. If the patient chooses not to be
                    present for the search, document the choice in the medical
                    record.
                 7. Return found items to unit HCP. Follow OSH Policy and
                    Procedure 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items” when
                    handling prohibited items.
PROCEDURES B Unit Search                                            POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE            March 20, 2019                                               PAGE 1 of 2


  Responsible
                                                Procedures
 Person/Group
Nurse manager       When a unit search is deemed necessary in accordance with OSH
(or designee)       Policy 8.014:
                    1. Request authorization from the program director for the unit
                       search. Provide the following information to the program director:
                       a. reasonable cause to suspect the presence of contraband,
                          prohibited items, or drugs; or
                       b. the security or safety risk that poses a danger to patients or
                          others.
                    2. Determine if additional staff will be necessary for the search.
                    3. Contact Security manager or designee to coordinate the search, if
                       necessary.
                    4. Designate a HCP to lock patient rooms until the search is
                       conducted.
                    5. Assist with the common area and patient rooms search. Follow
                       Procedures A, “Room Search”.
                    6. Establish a chain of custody for contraband or prohibited items
                       located during the search.
                    7. Communicate results to the program director.
Program director    1. Review search request.
                    2. Authorize search if deemed necessary.
                    3. Review search results.
Security Director   1. Arrange scheduled searches by:
or manager             a. developing a search schedule,
                       b. coordinating Security staff, and
                       c. notifying the program director prior to the search.
                    2. Coordinate Security assistance with unit HCP.
                    3. Develop plan with HCP and program director about scope of
                       search, search plan, and possible risks.
                    4. Assign or lead a Security team to assist with search.
                    5. If contraband or prohibited items are found, follow OSH Policies
                       and Procedures 8.019, “Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts
                       and Contraband”; 8.037, “Patient Property and Valuables:
                       Handling and Storage”; 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited
                       Items”; and Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-0015.
                    6. Document the search.
                    7. Review and assist with documentation of chain of custody,
                       evidence handling, and incident reports from Security staff.
PROCEDURES B Unit Search                                             POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE             March 20, 2019                                                PAGE 2 of 2

                   8. Provide a written report and risk assessment to the program
                      director.
Security staff      1. Complete search according to established plan.
                    2. Complete incident reports as necessary per OSH Policy and
                       Procedure 1.003, “Incident Reporting”.
MHT, nurse,         1. Verify no patients are inside of rooms and lock rooms.
or MHST             2. Search common areas and tub room before starting unit search.
                    3. Conduct a security check of each patient as outlined in OSH
                       Policy and Procedure, 8.041, “Personal Searches.”
                    4. Allow patients to be in common areas, activity rooms, or air court.
                    5. Follow Procedures A, “Room Search” to conduct each patient
                       room search.
                    6. If there are any findings of concern, document the findings in the
                       patient’s medical record.
                    7. Return found items to unit HCP. Follow OSH Policy and
                       Procedure 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items” when
                       handling prohibited items.
PROCEDURES C Treatment Mall Search                                   POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE             March 20, 2019                                               PAGE 1 of 2


  Responsible
                                                Procedures
 Person/Group
HCP                 When a treatment mall search is deemed necessary in accordance
                    with OSH Policy 8.014:
                    1. Request authorization from the treatment mall manager for a
                       treatment mall search. Provide the following information to the
                       treatment mall manager:
                        a. reasonable cause to suspect the presence of contraband,
                            prohibited items,
                        b. missing items that pose risk, or
                        c. the security or safety risk that poses a danger to patients or
                            others.
                    2. If there is reason to believe a patient may have a missing item,
                        consider requesting a security check for each patient who could
                        have accessed the item. Follow OSH Policy and Procedures
                        8.041, “Personal Searches.”
Treatment mall      1. After receiving authorization for an unannounced search, notify
HCP                    the Safety and Security Department.
                    2. Coordinate a search plan with the on-shift Security manager to
                       determine:
                       a. area requiring search,
                       b. the missing items or equipment, and
                       c. identify patients who may have accessed a missing item.
                    3. Begin the search when patients are not present on the
                       treatment mall unless there is reasonable cause to believe an
                       item missed during the staff’s inventory check was accounted
                       for before the treatment mall was started.
                    4. Be present to assist with Security during the search.
                    5. Designate a HCP to lock rooms.
                    6. If deemed necessary, conduct a security check of each patient
                       who may have been involved in the incident as outlined in OSH
                       Policy & Procedure, 8.041, “Personal Searches”.
                    7. Document the outcome of the search and any findings of
                       concern in the relevant patient’s medical record.
                    8. Return found items to treatment mall HCP. Follow OSH Policy
                       and Procedure 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited Items” when
                       handling prohibited items.
PROCEDURES C Treatment Mall Search                                  POLICY NUMBER 8.014
DATE             March 20, 2019                                              PAGE 2 of 2


Treatment mall      1. Review search request.
manager             2. Authorize search if deemed necessary.
                    3. Review search results.
Security Director   1. Arrange scheduled searches by:
or Manager             a. developing a search schedule,
                       b. coordinating Security staff, and
                       c. notifying the treatment mall manager prior to the search.
                    2. Develop plan with HCP and the treatment mall manager about
                       scope of search, search plan, and possible risks.
                    3. Assign or lead a Security team to assist with the search.
                    4. Document search results.
                    5. Provide a written report and risk assessment to the treatment
                       mall manager.
                    6. Review and assist with documentation of chain of custody,
                       evidence handling, and incident reports from Security staff.
                    7. If contraband or prohibited items are found, follow OSH Policies
                       and Procedures 8.019, “Staff Response to Alleged Criminal
                       Acts and Contraband”; 8.037, “Patient Property and Valuables:
                       Handling and Storage”; 8.044, “Contraband and Prohibited
                       Items”; and Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-0015.
Security staff      1. Complete search according to established plan.
                    2. Complete incident reports as necessary.
MHST or HCP         1. If needed, conduct a security check of the patient as outlined in
                       OSH Policy & Procedure, 8.041, “Personal Searches.”
                    2. Return patients back to the unit.
                    3. If needed, assist treatment mall HCP with search.
                    4. Document the treatment mall search in an incident report.
