                  OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                  POLICY ATTACHMENT
    PROCEDURES A: Personal Protective Equipment Specific               POLICY : 8.031
                       Guidance

    POINT PERSON:      Director of Safety

    APPROVED:          Interim Superintendent              DATE: October 15, 2024

    SELECT ONE:




 Personal Protective
                                                    Procedures
     Equipment
Gloves for patient        1. Staff will have access to single-use nitrile gloves and other
contact and general          non-latex gloves.
cleaning                  2. Staff with an allergy or sensitivity to nitrile may order
                             reusable cotton liner gloves available through Warehouse.
                          3. Alternatively, staff with a nitrile allergy or sensitivity may
                             obtain a note from their primary care provider attesting to
                             the sensitivity or allergy and submit the note to a
                             manager.
                                 a. The manager must submit the note to Human
                                     Resources.
                                 b. Human Resources will authorize the staff member’s
                                     work area to purchase other non-latex gloves.
                          4. All gloves must be immediately removed upon completion
                             of the task for which the gloves were donned. Staff must
                             change gloves between every patient contact. Gloves
                             must be disposed of in regular trash bags and
                             receptacles.
Surgical Masks            1. Staff are required to wear surgical masks when patients
                             are ill from an acute respiratory illness, or per infection
                             control procedures, or based on Chief Medical Officer’s
                             “mask on” directives.
                          2. Mask must be worn completely over the nose and mouth
                             and fit snugly against the sides of face without gaps.
PROCEDURES A   Personal Protective Equipment Specific                POLICY NUMBER 8.031
               Guidance

DATE           October 15, 2024                                               PAGE 2 of 3


                         3. Masks must be disposed of in regular trash bags and
                            receptacles and replaced when visibly soiled, damaged, or
                            when saturated with respiratory secretions or based on
                            specific hospital wide or infection control procedures.
Eye & Face Protection    1. Staff must inspect and check eye and face protection
(Goggles/Face Shields)      before and after each use for damage, excessive wear, or
                            missing pieces.
                                a. Staff must remove damaged or broken eye and
                                    face protection from work areas to avoid being use.
                                b. Management must conduct routine inspections and
                                    checks to ensure eye and face protection are free
                                    of defects and replace as necessary.
                         2. Eye and face protection will be worn in work areas or
                            during procedures which are known or likely or suspected
                            to cause droplets, splashing, spraying, spitting or flying
                            particles.
                         3. Eye and face protection must be washed and disinfected
                            using non-abrasive soap and water following each use
                            and any time they become contaminated.
Gowns                    1. Gowns must be worn during procedures in which the
                            possibility or likelihood of splashing, spraying, infesting, or
                            soiling of clothing may occur. Gowns must also be worn in
                            accordance with any isolation or quarantine precautions in
                            effect.
                         2. Gowns must be removed before leaving the room in which
                            the procedure took place or immediately upon completion
                            of the task for which PPE is required. Gowns must be
                            disposed of in regular trash bags and receptables.
Shoe Covers              1. Show covers should be used when blood and body fluid
                            spills or floor contamination is recognized or anticipated.
                         2. Shoe covers must be removed and disposed of in regular
                            trash bags and receptables at the site of use after the
                            affected area is cleaned and disinfected.
N-95 Filtered       1. Requires completion of fit test process in Procedure B
Facepiece/CAPR/PAPR    prior to issue and use.
                    2. Staff will be provided with initial and refresher training on
                       how to maintain and use the N-95 mask during their fit
                       testing.
PROCEDURES A   Personal Protective Equipment Specific                POLICY NUMBER 8.031
               Guidance

DATE           October 15, 2024                                               PAGE 3 of 3


                         3. N-95’s should be replaced and disposed of in regular
                            trash bags and receptables when wet, soiled, damaged,
                            or as otherwise determined by the Safety Office.
Full and Half-Face       1. Requires completion of fit test process in Procedure B
Respirators                 prior to issue and use, and with recertification annually.
(Occupational            2. Staff will be provided with initial and refresher training on
Exposure)                   how to maintain and use full and half-face respirators
                            during thier fit testing.
                         3. Individually issued and maintained by the user.
