                OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                            POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:   Patient Requests                                  POLICY: 6.061

POINT PERSON:   Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:       Superintendent                           DATE: MARCH 13, 2024

SELECT ONE:




       RESPONSIBLE                            PROCEDURES
      PERSON/GROUP
All Staff               A. Provide gender-affirming support, information, and
                           general resources at the patient’s request.
                           1. Print general resource information from the
                              hospital-issued Transgender and Gender Diverse
                              resource binder and provide to patients upon
                              request.
                           2. Refer patient to Social Worker for assistance with
                              legal documentation or processes (e.g., legal name
                              change, identification cards, etc.).
                           3. Refer patient to their Interdisciplinary Treatment
                              (IDT) team for any patient requests to
                              purchase/obtain gender-affirming items.
                           4. Contact the Gender Expansive Care and
                              Organizational Support (GECOS) team for any
                              other patient needs/requests related to gender
                              identity (e.g., patient requests to speak with
                              assigned GECOS team member(s), questions
                              regarding how best to support transgender and
                              gender diverse patients, etc.).
IDT                     A. Consult with the GECOS team for any
                           questions/concerns/treatment needs specific to patient
                           gender identity.
                           1. Complete the OSH GECOS Referral in Microsoft
                              Teams.
Social Worker           A. Consult with the GECOS team regarding patient
                           requests for legal processes associated with gender
                           identity (e.g., legal name change).
PROCEDURES A: Patient Requests                               POLICY NUMBER: 6.061
DATE:            March 13, 2024                                           Page 2 of 3

                            1. Once determined clinically indicated or not
                               clinically contraindicated, follow standard OSH
                               procedures for assisting patient with the request(s).
Peer Recovery            A. Refer requests received directly from patients to the
                            GECOS team and notify the patient’s IDT.
Gender Expansive Care    A. Within 5 business days of receiving a referral:
and Organizational          1. Assign referral to team member based on type of
Support (GECOS) team            request and need.
                            2. Assigned member reaches out to requesting team
                                to schedule consultation.
                                a. Assigned member meets with team within a 1–
                                    2-week timeframe, depending on availability
                                    and timeframe request.
                                       i. Complete documentation based on referral.
                                      ii. Refer to appropriate resources as indicated.
                                     iii. When training/education is
                                          requested/deemed indicated, consult with
                                          GECOS team to identify resources.
Qualified Professional   A. Perform gender diverse treatment evaluation,
(GECOS Psychologist)        following WPATH standards.
                            1. Meet with patient and/or team (approximately 2-4
                                visits total) for clinical interviews.
                            2. Review relevant documentation.
                            3. Document findings and recommendations per
                                relevant OSH Psychology protocol(s)
GECOS Physician/Nurse    A. In coordination with OSH medical clinic, provide
Practitioner                gender-affirming medical treatment as deemed
                            clinically indicated per qualified professional
                            evaluation and own professional judgement.
                         B. Coordinate patient requests for gender affirming
                            medical products.
                            1. Upon receipt of request through referral process to
                                GECOS, assess clinical need and
                                recommendation for purchase approval, per OSH
                                Medical Clinic Protocol.
                            2. Approval of Medical Services, Devices, and
                                Procedures: Approval of Medical Services,
                                Devices, and Procedures.
                            3. If item is recommended, consult with patient and/or
                                treatment team as needed to select the product
                                item.
Occupational Therapy     A. Coordinate patient requests for gender affirming non-
                            medical products:
PROCEDURES A: Patient Requests                           POLICY NUMBER: 6.061
DATE:          March 13, 2024                                        Page 3 of 3

                          1. Upon receipt of request through referral process to
                             GECOS, assess clinical need and approve, deny,
                             or request further information/follow-up.
                          2. If item is approved, designated GECOS team
                             member will consult with patient and/or treatment
                             team as needed to select the product item.
                          3. Purchase approved and selected item following
                             standard OSH policies and procedures.
