                OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                              POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:    Request and Process of a Tour                          POLICY: 1.009

POINT PERSON:    Strategic Communications Officer

APPROVED:        Superintendent                           DATE: NOVEMBER 23, 2023

SELECT ONE:                                          Minor/technical revision of
                    New policy attachment
                                                     existing policy attachment
                    Reaffirmation of existing        Major revision of existing
                    policy attachment                policy attachment


PLEASE NOTE THAT ALL CHANGES WILL BE MADE AS TRACK CHANGES. TO CLEAR AND ACCEPT
YOUR TRACK CHANGES, CONTACT OSH.POLICIESANDPROCEDURES@DHSOHA.STATE.OR.US.

 RESPONSIBLE                                    PROCEDURES
PERSON/GROUP
Reception        Before the Tour
                 1. Check the Centralized Personnel Database (CPD) each day
                    for scheduled tours. Print the CPD Checklist if a tour is
                    scheduled.
                 2. Have printed confidentiality forms (Attachment B) available for
                    tour attendees.
                 Day of the Tour
                 3. Check in tour attendees as they arrive at OSH.
                    a. Verify tour attendee photo identification against the
                        information entered in the CPD for the tour.
                    b. Issue the tour attendee a visitor badge.
                    c. If a tour attendee is not listed in the CPD, verify tour
                        participation with the Tour Guide prior to issuing a visitor
                        badge.
                 After the Tour
                 4. At the conclusion of the tour, check out tour participants and
                    collect visitor badges.
Requestor        Before the Tour
                  1. Shall use OSH Tour Request Form (Attachment A) to gather
                     information from the group that wants to tour.
                  2. Select a tour route as listed on the OSH Tour Request Form.
                        a. Only groups with relevant interest will be allowed to tour
                           units with the Superintendent’s approval.
PROCEDURES A: Requests and Process of a Tour                 POLICY NUMBER: 1.009
DATE:           November 23, 2023                                        Page 2 of 4

                 3. Email the completed OSH Tour Request Form to the tour
                      coordinator within the communications department for
                      approval.
                 If the tour is denied, you may renegotiate.
                After Tour is Approved
                 4. Notify all appropriate parties or departments involved in the
                      approved tour route one week prior to the tour.
                 5. Send OSH Safety & Confidentiality Agreement (Attachment B)
                      to tour group.
                 6. Plan additional services as appropriate, including catering,
                      reserving meeting rooms, coordinating a panel discussion,
                      etc.
                 7. Prepare tour handouts as necessary.
                         a. To request tour brochures, contact the OSH
                             Communications Department at least one week prior to
                             the tour date.
                Day Before the Tour
                 8. Remind all appropriate parties or departments on the
                      approved tour route. Contact the Tour Coordinator for list of
                      involved parties.
                 9. Verify any additional services you arranged.
                 10. Print blank copies of the OSH Safety & Confidentiality Form
                      (Attachment B) for tour participants who haven’t returned a
                      signed form. Attendees will need to provide a signed form
                      prior to entering the secure perimeter.
                Day of the Tour
                 11. If the tour route was approved to include a unit, call the unit’s
                      Lead RN, Unit Nurse Manager or Unit Administrator for that
                      unit to verify the tour route.
                         a. Please be considerate of patients’ needs and be willing
                             to adjust your tour route as necessary based on
                             treatment care staff’s direction.
                         b. Permission may be revoked to tour a unit based on staff
                             discretion and patient need.
                         c. If the Requestor cannot contact the appropriate party to
                             verify permission or permission is revoked, the tour may
                             not enter the unit.
                 12. Instruct the Tour Guides to pick up the CPD Checklist from
                      the OSH Reception Center.
Tour Guide      Day of Tour
                1. Meet tour attendees in the entryway.
                2. Collect the CPD Checklist from Reception and verify:
                     a. The tour route;
PROCEDURES A: Requests and Process of a Tour                   POLICY NUMBER: 1.009
DATE:              November 23, 2023                                       Page 3 of 4

                      b. Appropriate staff to tour attendee ratio;
                      c. Confidentiality form completion. If a tour attendee has not
                          submitted a confidentiality form, provide one for them to
                          complete prior to entering the secure perimeter.
                                   i. Tour attendees are not permitted beyond the
                                      lobby without a signed OSH Safety &
                                      Confidentiality Agreement.
                      d. Every tour attendee has checked in and is wearing their
                          visitor badge properly.
                      e. If there is an additional tour attendee, enter their
                          information to the CPD Checklist.
                   3. Contact Security if a search of a tour participant or their
                      belongings is needed prior to entering secure perimeter.
                   4. Complete a pre-tour briefing for tour attendees including, but
                      not limited to, storage of property, codes, badge identification
                      information, etc.
                      a. Personal belongings such as backpacks, purses, food,
                          cellphones, etc. must be stored in the lockers outside the
                          secure perimeter.
                                   i. Exceptions to this may be approved on a case-
                                      by-case basis.
                   5. Lead the tour based on the approved tour route.
                   After the Tour
                   6. At the conclusion of the tour:
                      a. Ensure all participants leave the secure perimeter;
                      b. Ensure all visitors check out with Reception and all visitors
                          turn in their visitor badge.
                      c. Send the CPD Checklist and all completed Safety and
                          Confidentiality Agreements (Attachment B) including any
                          additional tour participants to the Tour Coordinator.


Tour Coordinator   Before the Tour
                   1. Send the Tour Confirmation Email and OSH Safety &
                      Confidentiality Agreement (Attachment B) to the requestor.
                   2. Ensure requestor notifies relevant parties and/or departments
                      prior to the tour.
                   3. Work with the Tour Guide if issues arise.
                   After the Tour
                   4. Retain the CPD Checklist and OSH Safety and Confidentiality
                      Agreements per OHA policy OHA-010-018, “Records
                      Retention and Management.”
PROCEDURES A: Requests and Process of a Tour                POLICY NUMBER: 1.009
DATE:           November 23, 2023                                       Page 4 of 4

                5. After the tour, request that the Tour Guide give the CPD
                   Checklist and all signed OSH Safety & Confidentiality
                   Agreements from the tour participants.
                  a. Retain the confidentiality forms for two years. Hardcopies
                      can be recycled an electronic copy has been created.
                  b. CPD Checklists can be recycled at the conclusion of the
                      tour, ensure all information is correctly saved in the CPD for
                      archival purposes.
Security        Respond for personal or belongings search, as requested.
