                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 2:        Clinical Support Services                                POLICY: 2.009

SUBJECT:          Medical Record Forms
                  Management

POINT PERSON:     Health Information Director

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                   DATE: JULY 17, 2024


                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
     I. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will maintain a medical record forms
        management program that verifies standardization, effective
        communication, and efficient review and adoption of procedures for
        medical record forms used at OSH.
     II. This policy applies to all staff at OSH.


POLICY
     A. The Medical Records Committee (MRC) is responsible for the medical record
        forms management program and must verify that proposed medical record
        forms and medical record form revisions are promulgated, reviewed, and
        implemented in a manner consistent with OSH policies and procedures, state
        government regulations, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
        regulations, and Joint Commission standards.
     B. All adopted medical record forms must be in a standard uniform
        format established and approved by the MRC.
         1. Medical record forms must be maintained by Health Information (HI) and
            made available to staff.
         2. A sample copy of all medical record forms must be kept on file in HI.
     C. The MRC must review forms containing clinical documentation and
        determine whether the form should be approved for inclusion in the
Subject:                                                        Policy Number: 2.009
           Medical Record Forms Management
Date:
           July 17, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 3

        medical record.
        1. State agency forms may be included in the medical record if approved by
           the MRC.
        2. Any new or existing medical record form that requires emergency approval
           to meet a regulatory requirement must be referred to the MRC Chair and
           Health Information Department (HI) Director for review and approval.
    D. Printing requests for paper medical record forms must be processed
       through HI. An approved pilot medical record form may be reproduced at a
       photocopy machine.

    E. A list of medical record forms stocked by, and which may be requisitioned
       from, the Material Distribution Warehouse will be maintained in the
       Warehouse Catalog.
    F. Staff must follow Procedures A, “Medical Record Forms Process”.
    G. Medical record forms implemented or revised outside the process in
       Procedures A will be considered invalid and may not be used in the medical
       record.
    H. This policy applies to all staff, including employees, volunteers, trainees,
       interns, contractors, vendors, and other state employees assigned to work
       at OSH.
    I. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes
       and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services, Shared
       Services, and Oregon Health Authority policies; and relevant accreditation
       standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless
       this policy is more restrictive.
    J. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related procedures may be
       subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

II. DEFINITIONS
    "Medical record form" for the purposes of this policy means a paper or
    electronic document with blank spaces for specific data used by staff to collect
    observations and facts concerning a particular patient. The medical record form
    identifies the patient, justifies the diagnosis, documents treatment and the
    patient’s response to treatment, and is filed in the patient's medical record.
    “Sponsor” for the purpose of this policy means the person who maintains
    responsibility for the medical record form, including any necessary changes or
    updates.

III. PROCEDURE
Subject:                                                      Policy Number: 2.009
             Medical Record Forms Management
Date:
             July 17, 2024                                            P AGE 3 OF 3

    Procedures A       Medical Record Forms Process

IV. ATTACHMENT
    Attachment A       Medical Record Committee Process Map

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.014 Data Governance
   2.014 Medical Record Maintenance and Transportation
   6.045 Clinical Documentation


VI. REFERENCES
    42 CFR § 482.24.
