                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                             POLICY
  SECTION 8:         Safety, Security, Emergency                               POLICY: 8.009
                     Management

  SUBJECT:           OSH Safety Programs

  POINT PERSON:      Director of Safety

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                                   DATE: JUNE 7, 2023

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                                Minor/technical revision of
                     New policy
                                                             existing policy

                     Reaffirmation of existing policy        Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) strives to provide a safe and healthy work
         environment for staff, patients, and visitors to enhance productivity and quality of
         patient care. To support this goal, this policy describes the OSH Safety Program
         and staff safety training requirements.
      B. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. The OSH Safety department is responsible for a comprehensive safety program
         at OSH (OSH Safety Program), which includes but is not limited to:
         1. Safety-related staff training requirements,
             a. The OSH Safety department provides staff safety-related training to
                ensure compliance with federal and state regulatory statues.
         2. Safety consultation for staff and patients,
             a. The OSH Safety department provides assistance and consultations on
                issues related to workplace safety and health.
         3. Safety inspections and consultation for external partners,
             a. The OSH Safety department serves as a liaison to State Accident
                Insurance Fund (SAIF) Corporation, Occupational Safety and Health
                Administration (OSHA), and other applicable regulatory agencies during
SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                     POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

DATE:     June 7, 2023                                                      PAGE 2 OF 7

           inspections, consultations, and correspondence related to safety and
           health.
    4. Safety-related policy enforcement,
        a. The OSH Safety department must verify hospital-wide compliance with
           safety and health regulations required by OSH policy, state and federal
           law, and other applicable regulatory agencies, such as The Joint
           Commission and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid.
        b. For fire and fire drill response, refer to OSH policy 8.022, “Fire and Fire
           Drill Response.”
        c. For workplace violence prevention and response, refer to OSH policy
           8.033, “Workplace Violence Response.”
    5. Safety data analysis and reporting, and
        a. The OSH Safety department manages, coordinates, and maintains fire
           and life safety training, worker’s compensation, and occupational health
           programs, including collection and analysis of injury or illness data. The
           OSH Safety department maintains documentation related to these
           programs, and records are made available upon request.
        b. The OSH Safety department must report required safety data to the OSH
           Safety Committee, OSH Environment of Care Committee, OSH Cross-
           Functional Work Team, and other committees as needed.
    6. Promoting safety and health for staff and patients at OSH.
        a. Among other safety-related functions, the OSH Safety department
           manages and coordinates staff ergonomic assessments, job hazard
           analysis, product risk assessments, and OSH safety environmental risk
           assessments.
        b. The OSH Safety Program includes identified room risk levels as follows:
           i.   Level 1: Areas where patients are not allowed, such as staff and
                service areas.
           ii. Level 2: Areas where patients are under constant supervision and are
               not left alone.
           iii. Level 3: Areas where patients may spend time with minimal
                supervision.
           iv. Level 4: Areas where patient spend a great deal of time alone with
               minimal or no supervision.
SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                   POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

DATE:     June 7, 2023                                                    PAGE 3 OF 7

           v. Level 5: Areas where staff interact with newly admitted patients who
              present potential unknown risks or where patients may be in a highly
              agitated condition. Due to these conditions, these areas fall outside the
              parameters of the risk map and require special considerations for
              patient and staff safety.
 B. Staff are responsible to work in a safe manner. Staff must follow safety
    regulations established by OSH Safety department and eliminate and/or report
    any safety hazards, unsafe conditions, or unsafe practices to their supervisor or
    the OSH Safety department.
    1. Reportable incidents as designated in OSH policy 1.003, “Incident reporting,”
       must be reported per OSH policy 1.003.
    2. To maintain a safe environment, staff may perform environment checks, such
       as a Patient Environment Safety Surveillance (PESS), infection control, or
       sanitation check, without patient notification or involvement prior to
       conducting the check.
        a. Staff are required to complete a Patient Environment Safety Surveillance
           (PESS) of the physical environment per Procedures A. The PESS is used
           to identify staff and patient safety hazards in the physical environment.
           Other environment checks are performed per Procedures B and
           department protocols.
        b. If a personal search of a patient is considered necessary during an
           environment check, staff must follow OSH policy 8.041, “Patient Personal
           Searches,” and OSH policy 6.061, “Transgender and Gender Non-
           Conforming Treatment."
        c. Searches related to contraband or reasonable suspicion of contraband,
           missing items, and security or other treatment risk identification and
           mitigation are subject to OSH policy 8.014, “Room, Unit, Treatment Mall
           Searches.”
        d. If contraband is found or staff have reasonable suspicion of the presence
           of contraband or missing items during an environmental check, staff must
           follow OSH policy 8.014, “Room, Unit, Treatment Mall Searches,” to gain
           the proper permissions for a room search and OSH policy 8.044,
           “Contraband,” to handle the contraband item.
           NOTE: Food found during an environmental check may or may not be
           classified as contraband, depending on the circumstance. Food that is not
           classified as contraband is handled per this policy, OSH policy 6.047,
           “Patient Food,” and applicable department protocols.
 C. Staff must be trained in safety-related topics per OSH policy 9.002, “Training for
    Staff.”
 D. Supervisors must promote a safe work environment, safe work practices, and the
       SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                       POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

       DATE:      June 7, 2023                                                       PAGE 4 OF 7

           prevention of accidents and injuries within the assigned work area.
           1. Supervisors must provide appropriate safety orientation on workplace
              hazards and mitigation of risks that staff may be exposed to in the workplace.
           2. Supervisors must review work section injury data provided by the OSH Safety
              department and recommend injury prevention and mitigation efforts to the
              OSH Central Safety Committee or OSH Safety department as needed.
        E. If a workplace injury or illness occurs, the injured or ill staff and staff supervisor
           must follow OSH policies 5.011, “Return to Work of Employees Injured on the
           Job”, and 5.012, “Injury or Illness Reporting”. A supervisor may request a staff
           member become a Unit Safety Representative (USR). Staff may decline an
           invitation to be a USR without penalty.
           1. A supervisor must provide time during the staff’s regular work schedule each
              month for the USR to complete assigned USR duties.
           2. After receiving training and certification from the OSH Safety department, the
              USR must conduct monthly safety inspections as directed by the OSH Safety
              department.
        F. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
           and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
           (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
           relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
           this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
        G. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
           may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.    DEFINITIONS
        A. "Constant supervision” for the purposes of this policy means staff have eyes on
           the patient at all times and usually means staff are in the room with the patient
           (seclusion rooms/bathrooms are a notable exception).
        B. “Contraband” is as defined in OSH policy 8.044, “Contraband.” Contraband is as
           defined in 28 CFR § 500.1 and 28 CFR § 553.12. Contraband means material
           prohibited by law, regulation or policy that can reasonably be expected to cause
           physical injury or adversely affect the safety, security, or good order of the facility
           or protection of the public. Items possessed by a patient ordinarily are not
           considered to be contraband if the patient was authorized to retain the item upon
           admission to the hospital, the item was issued by authorized staff, or the item
           was approved, purchased, and received for a patient through appropriate OSH-
           approved channels. For the purposes of this policy, contraband includes, but is
           not limited to:
      SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                    POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

      DATE:     June 7, 2023                                                     PAGE 5 OF 7

          1. Hard contraband,
          2. Nuisance contraband, and
          3. Any substance or article that violates facility infection control requirements.
             Such substances or articles may be classified as either hard contraband or
             nuisance contraband, depending on the circumstance.
       C. “Environment check” or “environmental check” means a check for the presence
          of environmental hazards, including, but not limited to, ligature risks; spoiled,
          expired, or unlabeled food; improperly stored food; unlabeled or expired sundry
          items; garbage; soiled bedding; dirty clothing; and other items or environmental
          factors that may contribute to a health risk or safety hazard for patients or staff.
          Environment checks are not considered searches of patient rooms, units, or
          treatment malls and are not subject to OSH policy 8.014, “Room, Unit, Treatment
          Mall Searches.”
       D. "Minimal supervision” in this policy means staff are occasionally visualizing the
          patient or the room (e.g., unit activity room). Staff do not need to be in the room
          with the patient. Video surveillance does not meet this requirement.
       E. “Reasonable cause” is as defined in Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-
          0005. Reasonable cause means an OSH staff member has knowledge or notice
          of facts or circumstances and the rational inferences drawn therefrom that would
          lead a reasonable and experienced OSH staff member to come to a conclusion.
       F. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
          and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
       G. “Sundry item” means an item used for personal care or hygiene that may be
          medicated or non-medicated that:
          1. OSH has determined does not require a practitioner’s order to administer, and
          2. Is not required to be stored in the automated dispensing cabinets (ADC) or
             medication room.
          3. Examples of sundry items include, but are not limited to, shampoo including
             anti-dandruff shampoo, body wash, bar soap, toothpaste, moisturizing lotions,
             sunscreen, and other personal care items.
       H. “Unit Safety Representative (USR)” means a staff who has received additional
          training on the OSH Safety Program to assist in conducting inspections under the
          direction of the OSH Safety department.

IV.    PROCEDURES
       Procedures A     Patient Environment Safety Surveillance (PESS) Process
       SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                         POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

       DATE:      June 7, 2023                                                          PAGE 6 OF 7

        Procedures B       Environment Check

 V.     ATTACHMENTS
        Attachment A       Patient Environment Safety Surveillance (PESS) Survey Sheet
                           (Example Only)
        Attachment B       PESS Surveyor Process Map

VI.     RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
        1.003 Incident Reporting
        2.006 Public Records Retention and Destruction
        2.012 Patient Safety Events, Including Sentinel Events
        1.014 Data Governance
        5.011 Return to Work of Employees Injured on the Job
        5.012 Injury or Illness Reporting
        7.005 Patient Rights
        8.019 Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts
        8.022 Fire and Fire Drill Response
        8.029 Distribution of Funds for Safety Grants
        8.033 Workplace Violence Response
        8.037 Patient Property and Valuables
        8.041 Patient Personal Searches
        8.044 Contraband
        9.002 Training for Staff
        Nursing protocol 2.042 Medical Treatment Supplies, Personal Care Products, and
        Sundry Items
        Nursing protocol 2.210 Handling Patient Food on Units
        Nursing protocol 2.215 Unit Safety and Security Management (SSM)
        Technology Services – PESS Survey Sheet [form – various]

VII.    REFERENCES
        20 C.F.R Chapter 1, Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
SUBJECT: OSH Safety Programs                                           POLICY NUMBER: 8.009

DATE:       June 7, 2023                                                          PAGE 7 OF 7

 42 C.F.R. §482.41
 Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
     for hospitals. EC 01.01.01 ep1, ep 4, ep 7. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
 Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
     for hospitals. EC 02.01.01 ep1, ep 3. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
 National Fire Protection Association (2023).101, 19.1.1.1., Author.
 Oregon Administrative Rule §166-300-0045.
 Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 437-001-0001 – 437-002-2324.
 Oregon Revised Statute §§ 654.001 – 654.991.
