                OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                 POLICY ATTACHMENT

PROCEDURES A:       Discharge Readiness                                     POLICY : 6.013

POINT PERSON:       Director of Social Work

APPROVED:           Sara Walker, MD                                 DATE: DECEMBER 24,
                                                                                 2024
                    Chief Medical Officer/Interim
                    Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                             Minor/technical revision of
                      New policy attachment
                                                        existing policy attachment
                      Reaffirmation of existing         Major revision of existing
                      policy attachment                 policy attachment



    RESPONSIBLE                                   PROCEDURES
  PERSON/GROUP
Interdisciplinary     1. Encourage patient involvement whenever possible in
Treatment Team           decisions regarding community placement when planning
(IDT)                    discharge or conditional release.
                      2. Identify barriers that could impede or delay discharge, and:
                         a. develop Treatment Care Plan (TCP) goals and
                             interventions specific to the identified discharge barrier
                             with identified completion dates, and
                         b. assign IDT resources to mitigate identified barriers.
                      3. The IDT, Risk Review Panel, or Program Executive Team
                         (PET) (as applicable) determines the patient is “ready to
                         transition” or “conditional release ready.”
                      4. Document discharge readiness status in the patient’s medical
                         record at the time the IDT determines the patient’s discharge
                         readiness per department protocols.
                      5. After determining that a patient under the PSRB can be safely
                         supervised in the community, request the Risk Review Panel
                         review and approve or deny a conditional release readiness
                         request.
                      6. Provide the patient’s guardian with opportunity to participate
                         in discharge planning.
                      7. If a patient refuses to participate in all or part of the discharge
                         planning process, document the refusal, the reasons for
PROCEDURES A: Discharge Readiness                             POLICY NUMBER : 6.013
DATE:           December 17, 2024                                          Page 2 of 4



                         refusal, the nature of the plans offered, and efforts made on
                         behalf of the patient.
                     8. Use clinical judgment and include the patient to identify whom
                         the patient wants to be notified of their discharge.
                         a. Identify who is legally required to be notified of the
                              patient’s discharge.
                         b. Notify the identified persons.
                     9. Assess the patient’s risk for suicide in accordance with OSH
                         Policy and Procedure 6.056, “Suicide Risk Screening and
                         Assessment”.
                     10. Include input from the patient’s lay caregiver, when
                         applicable, and other supports.
                     11. If a patient must be unexpectedly discharged, (e.g., due to
                         court action or a voluntary admit patient request), attempt to
                         connect with community-based services and supports for
                         continuing care. Document such efforts.
Psychiatrist/PMHNP    1. For patients under Oregon Revised Statute (ORS)
                         161.370, complete a Clinical Hospital Level of Care
                         Assessment in collaboration with other members of the
                         IDT at the 10 Day Review and at each subsequent
                         Treatment Care Plan Meeting. For Patients under
                         ORS 426.130 and 426.220 complete a Ready to
                         Transition Assessment in collaboration with Social
                         Work and other members of the IDT at every
                         Treatment Care Plan meeting.
                      2. For all patients, identify the individual’s s discharge
                         readiness in a progress note, including barriers to
                         discharge and associated interventions for those not
                         deemed ready.
                      3. Collaborate with the social worker and patient on
                         discharge planning.
                      4. Complete the medical record and discharge order,
                         including destination of patient’s discharge, and sign
                         the discharge order.
                      5. Complete the Psychiatry Discharge Summary within 10
                         days of patient discharge and include the course of
                         hospitalization, continuing care plan, and
                         recommendations for needed treatment.
PROCEDURES A: Discharge Readiness                                POLICY NUMBER : 6.013
DATE:              December 17, 2024                                           Page 3 of 4



Registered Nurse     1. Per Nursing protocol 2,027 “Discharge of Patients,” complete
(RN)                    the Nursing Discharge Bundle, which includes the Discharge
                        Nursing Assessment and Suicide Risk Screening (Discharge),
                        within 24 hours prior to the patient’s discharge.
                     2. Review the Patient Discharge Instructions report with the
                        patient and caregiver, when possible.
                     3. Facilitate treatment and medical equipment to send with the
                        patient per Nursing protocol.
Social worker        1. Document community integration and discharge planning
                        progress throughout the patient’s hospitalization in progress
                        notes in accordance with applicable protocols.
                     2. Complete a continuing care discharge plan (CCDP),
                        including information such as housing, supervision,
                        addresses, support systems, persons to contact, medical
                        needs, appointments, special care needs, an evaluation of
                        the likelihood the patient needs post-hospital services and
                        the availability of the services, and recommendations in
                        accordance with ORS 441.196.
                     3. Schedule follow-up appointments for no later than seven
                        days after discharge
                     4. If follow-up appointments cannot be scheduled within seven
                        days after discharge, document why the seven-day goal
                        could not be met.
                     5. Include recommendations for mental health care in the CCDP
                        for a patient going to another institutional setting (e.g., jail,
                        correctional facility, medical hospital) both for that institutional
                        setting and for discharge planning to the community from that
                        setting.
                     6. If the patient or legal guardian refuses to sign the CCDP,
                        write, "patient (or guardian) refuses to sign" in the open
                        space provided for the signature, and initial the statement.
                     7. Attach lists of resources specific for the patient’s needs which
                        could include skilled nursing facilities (SNF), intermediate
                        care facilities (ICF), local housing, shelters, food banks, etc.
                     8. For patients under civil commitment or conditionally
                        releasing under the PSRB, ensure transport is arranged.
                     9. Complete notification to external partners of discharge,
                        including phone contact with the receiving facility or provider,
                        if there are immediate risks identified by the IDT. Document
                        contact.
PROCEDURES A: Discharge Readiness                               POLICY NUMBER : 6.013
DATE:                December 17, 2024                                       Page 4 of 4



                       10. When completed, sign the CCDP, and send copies of the
                           CCDP form to the patient, care provider, community mental
                           health plan representative, and other involved agencies at
                           discharge.
Health Information      1. When the Psychiatry Discharge Summary is completed,
                           check the CCDP and send out with other identified clinical
                           documents identified by the Psychiatrist/PMHNP to
                           continuing care providers.
                        2. Document the date of the disclosure(s).
