 Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 4.012
             Medical Equipment or Goods and Outside
             Medical Services Purchase
 Date:
             July 8, 2025                                                   P AGE 2 OF 3

       3. as a result of an illness or condition endangering the patient's health to which
          OSH is unable or unequipped to treat.
   B. Durable medical equipment or goods may be recommended by non-OSH
      medical or other professional services, or by a physician internal to OSH.
   C. These procedures may not be used by contract-based services for the ongoing
      care or for services provided on OSH grounds without Chief of Medicine (COM)
      approval.
   D. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Durable Medical Equipment (DME) or goods” in this policy means Equipment
      that is reusable, intended for long-term use, and prescribed by a provider to
      assist with a medical condition. Durable medical equipment or goods in this
      policy do not refer to commonly shared items owned by OSH (e.g., a wheelchair
      used by several patients on a unit).
   B. “Standard Medical Supplies” are items that are disposable or used up after a
      short period and needed for medical care or treatment.
   C. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Attachment A      Medical Equipment or Services Purchase
   Attachment B      Durable Medical Equipment for Patients

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   4.010 Patient Funds
   8.038 Code Blue Medical Emergency
   Documentation of Outside Medical Service, OSH-STK-03398 [Medical record form].
   Purchase of Outside Medical Services, OSH-STK-09710 [Medical record form].
 Subject:                                                             Policy Number: 4.012
             Medical Equipment or Goods and Outside
             Medical Services Purchase
 Date:
             July 8, 2025                                                         P AGE 3 OF 3

VI. REFERENCES
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
   for hospitals, EC.02.04.01 - 02.04.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
