                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION X:        Patient Care                                               POLICY: 6.029

SUBJECT:          Risk Review and Privileges

POINT PERSON:     Director of Legal Affairs

APPROVED:         Jim Diegel                                     DATE: OCTOBER 30, 2025

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                               Minor/technical revision of
                  New policy
                                                          existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy        Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   1. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) maintains a Risk Review (RR) system to assist
      patients in transitioning and reintegrating safely into the community. RR is
      designed to objectively review privilege requests for patients as described in this
      policy. RR supports clinically appropriate transitions from inpatient hospitalization
      to reintegration with the community, with a focus on mitigating risk associated
      with the patient.
   2. This policy defines RR responsibilities and establishes RR Panel meeting and
      membership requirements.
   3. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   1. RR Panel establishes privileges for patients under the appropriate civil or
      forensic jurisdictions. Patients committed to OSH under the aid and assist
      commitment type are not eligible for privileges.
   2. RR Panel decisions represent the official OSH opinion related to approval or
      denial of patient privileges.
           a. NOTE: Conditional release readiness and jurisdictional discharge
              decisions are made by PSRB with consideration of OSH’s opinion.
   3. RR Panel membership and meeting requirements are per Attachment A.
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.029
             Risk Review and Privileges
Date:
             October 27, 2025                                               P AGE 2 OF 5

  4. When an interdisciplinary team (IDT) requests a privilege for a patient, the RR
     Panel evaluates potential patient risk based on clinical assessment and medical
     and legal records review. RR Panel may:
           a. Request additional information, including assessments, to ensure an
              accurate understanding of an individual patient’s areas of risk, treatment,
              and supervisory needs;
           b. Require additional risk management and risk mitigation strategies for the
              patient and their IDT to manage identified risks and to support the
              patient’s wellness, recovery, and community reintegration;
           c. Grant, approve, deny, or modify privileges to mitigate risk and support the
              safe and clinically appropriate transition from inpatient hospitalization to
              reintegration with the community;
           d. Approve or deny a pat-down exception;
                  i. Pat-down exceptions approved by RR apply to all pat-downs,
                     including those that would be required during a unit or patient room
                     search;
           e. Consider a progression of privileges instead of requiring the patient to
              return to RR for additional privileges; and
           f. For patients under the jurisdiction of the PSRB, review requests for
              conditional release readiness or discharge from jurisdiction of PSRB and
              determine whether to support conditional release readiness or
              jurisdictional discharge in PSRB hearings.
  5. RR Panel conducts a review two years (exceptions as determined by RR Panel)
     before each GEI patient’s end of jurisdiction (EOJ), even if the patient is not
     ready for privileges or conditional release, to assist the IDT with planning for a
     safe EOJ.
  6. Privilege orders:
           a. Staff are required to follow privilege levels as ordered by the
              psychiatrist/psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner (PMHNP).
           b. The psychiatrist/PMHNP may not order privileges that exceed the
              privileges approved by the RR Panel, with the exceptions of court-ordered
              transport, emergency medical transport, emergency responses with Chief
              Medical Officer (CMO) approval, or other special exceptions as ordered by
              the Superintendent or CMO.
           c. Psychiatrists/PMHNPs must modify patient privilege orders to remove any
              non-allowed or revoked privileges.
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.029
             Risk Review and Privileges
Date:
             October 27, 2025                                                P AGE 3 OF 5

  7. The IDT may temporarily limit or suspend privileges in accordance with the
     criteria below without consulting the RR Panel.
           a. Privileges may be limited or suspended in circumstances such as, but
              not limited to:
                  i. If the IDT determines the patient to be at increased risk,
                  ii. Transfer to a more secure level of care within OSH,
                 iii. Inappropriate sexual behavior per OSH policy 6.016, “Sexual
                      Activity Between Patients,”
                 iv. Possessing nuisance contraband per OSH policy 8.044,
                     “Contraband,” or
                 v. During other significant safety or security incidents.
           b. Privileges must be immediately suspended in circumstances such as, but
              not limited to:
                  i. Unauthorized leave attempt inside the secure perimeter,
                  ii. Possessing hard contraband per OSH policy 8.044,
                 iii. Suicide attempt.
           c. Privileges must be revoked, with a return to RR to reinstate them, in the
              following circumstances:
                  i. Physical assault resulting in injury,
                  ii. Significant property damage,
                 iii. PET referral for re-assessment,
                 iv. Patient does not use any of their available privileges for 60 days.
           d. If privileges are suspended for less than 60 days, the IDT may return
              privileges without consulting RR.
           e. If the Superintendent or designee directs a temporary hospital-level
              change to privileges (e.g., implementing temporary privilege restrictions to
              prevent the spread of an infectious disease), or a patient is medically
              compromised and unable to use privileges due to their medical condition,
              the 60-day timeline is paused for the entirety of the directive/condition.
              The 60-day timeline resumes when patients can use privileges without
              restriction.
           f. RR Panel may conduct an informal review to determine the continued
              appropriateness of the privileges.
 Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.029
            Risk Review and Privileges
 Date:
            October 27, 2025                                                 P AGE 4 OF 5

   8. A patient who attempts or is successful with an unauthorized leave outside the
      secure perimeter automatically loses privileges and must be presented to the RR
      Panel for reconsideration of privileges. Unauthorized leave is not the same as a
      wandering or unattended patient.
   9. If a patient received privileges previously but has not been seen at the RR Panel
      for three (3) years, the patient should be presented to the RR Panel again for a
      review of their status.
   10. The Superintendent and the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) have the authority to
       override decisions made by the RR Panel and make decisions independent of
       the RR Panel.
   11. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
       and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
       (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
       relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
       this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
   12. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
       may be subject to disciplinary action.
   13. Must Stay as Second-to-Last Policy Statement: Oregon State Hospital (OSH)
       follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and rules;
       Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services, and
       Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation standards.
       Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is
       more restrictive.
   14. Must Stay as Last Policy Statement: Failure to comply with this policy or related
       policy attachments or protocols may be subject to disciplinary action.



III. DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A      Risk Review and Privileges

V. ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A      Risk Review Membership and Meetings
   Attachment B      Acceptable Rationales to Seek a Pat Down Exception

VI. RELATED OSH FORMS
  Subject:                                                      Policy Number: 6.029
               Risk Review and Privileges
  Date:
               October 27, 2025                                         P AGE 5 OF 5

       Risk Review Request Form (Form - Electronic Health Record)

VII. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   2.013 Electronic Health Record Access
   2.018 Complete Medical Record
   6.002 Authorized Person Passes
   6.006 On-Grounds and Off-Grounds Movement
   6.011 Treatment Care Planning
   6.013 Discharge and Conditional Release Planning
   6.024 Transportation and Supervision Ratios
   6.030 Electronic Device and Internet Access
   6.042 Short-Term Assessment of Risk and Treatability (START)
   6.045 Clinical Documentation
   7.002 Media Access for Patients
   7.005 Patient Rights
   7.015 Patient Rights Restrictions
   7.016 Outdoors and Fresh Air Patient Rights
   8.018 Unauthorized Leave
   8.036 FES Violence Mitigation Plan
   8.038 Medical Emergency (Code Blue)
   8.044 Contraband

VIII. REFERENCES
   Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 859-001-0005 — 859-400-0045.

   Oregon Revised Statute § 161.327.

   Oregon Revised Statute §161.328

   Oregon Revised Statute § 179.473

   Oregon Revised Statute § 426.701.
