                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 5:       Human Resources                                          POLICY: 5.030

SUBJECT:         Credentialing for Non-MAHPS
                 Staff Providing Care or Services
                 to Patients

POINT PERSON:    Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                                   DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                             Minor/technical revision of
                                                        existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy       Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This policy outlines Oregon State Hospital (OSH) requirements for verification of
      credentials of staff who are not a member of Medical and Allied Health
      Professional Staff (MAHPS).
   B. This policy applies to all staff who are not a member of MAHPS and who provide
      care or services to patients, and all staff who verify credentials for non-MAHPS
      staff.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH must verify that each staff member hired to provide care or services to
      patients at OSH is credentialed and privileged to provide the scope of care or
      service indicated in the staff member’s job description or contract.
   B. Clinical supervisors over non-MAHPS staff must comply with this policy as well as
      any other discipline-specific standards of practice.
   C. Whenever law, regulation, or the State of Oregon requires staff to have a specific
      credential or training to provide patient care or services at OSH, OSH must verify
      the staff member has the credentials, education, or required training as indicated
      in the job description.
      1. The Human Resources recruiter will verify the applicant has the credentials or
         education required in the job description.
Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 5.030
           Credentialing for Non-MAHPS Staff
           Providing Care or Services to Patients
Date:
           July 25, 2024                                                   P AGE 2 OF 3

     2. At the time of hire, the hiring manager, clinical supervisor, or designee must
        complete primary source verification.
         a. The person conducting the primary source verification must verify and
            document the applicant has the credentials, education, training, and
            experience required by the job description responsibilities.
         b. Primary source verification, a criminal background check, and applicable
            health screenings must be completed before staff may provide care or
            services to patients.
     3. The clinical supervisor or designee must conduct primary source verification
        whenever a credential is due to be renewed.
     4. Primary source verification must be documented and maintained in the staff
        member’s credentialing or supervisory file.
         a. The clinical supervisor or designee must retain such records according to
            OSH’s retention schedule as indicated in OSH Policy and Procedure
            2.006, “Public Records Retention and Destruction.”
         b. Staff are responsible to promptly update credentials through the applicable
            board if a name change has been made.
     5. If primary source verification indicates the claimed credential or training is not
        legitimate, the clinical supervisor or designee must communicate with the
        Human Resources Department to determine a course of action.
  D. Staff are responsible to renew their own credential before the credential’s
     expiration date.
     1. A staff member may not provide care or services to patients at OSH unless
        applicable credentials have been verified to be current and legitimate.
  E. A staff member who fails to comply with this policy or related procedures,
     including allowing necessary credentials to be inactive or expire, may be subject
     to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
  F. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
     rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
     and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
     standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
     policy is more restrictive.
  G. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
     may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
 Subject:                                                              Policy Number: 5.030
             Credentialing for Non-MAHPS Staff
             Providing Care or Services to Patients
 Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                          P AGE 3 OF 3

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Credential” for the purposes of this policy means a license, registration, or
      certification required by law, regulation, or by OSH for a staff member to provide
      care or services to patients at OSH.
   B. “Credentialing” for the purposes of this policy means the process of obtaining,
      verifying, and assessing the qualifications of a staff member to provide care or
      services to patients at OSH.
   C. “Primary source” means the original source of a specific credential, or an
      approved designee of the original source which can verify the legitimacy of a
      claimed credential. Examples of primary sources include, but are not limited to:
      state licensing boards, graduate education programs, universities, and colleges.
   D. “Primary source verification” is the process of contacting a primary source via in-
      person telephone communication or researching the credential on an approved
      secure electronic system.
   E. “Privileging” for the purposes of this policy means the process of authorizing a
      staff member to provide a specific scope and content of patient-care services to
      patients at OSH by evaluating the staff member’s credentials and competency.
   F. “Staff” for the purposes of this policy means a person who provides direct patient
      care or services to patients at OSH, including employees, contractors, and
      agency staff who provide direct patient care or services to patients. In this policy
      “staff” does not include MAHPS members.

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   Oregon State Hospital Medical and Allied Health Professional Staff Bylaws (2020)
   2.006 Public Records Retention and Destruction
   4.013 Professional Credential and Membership Fees

V. REFERENCES
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, HR 01.02.05. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, HR 01.02.07. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-505-0040.
   Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-510-0020.
