                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 9:        Training and Development                                     POLICY: 9.010

SUBJECT:          Interns

POINT PERSON:     COO/CFO

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                       DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) may provide internship experiences for interns in
      various disciplines with the goal to provide interns with education and practical
      experience relevant to their field of study. Internships at OSH must be
      appropriately planned, supervised, and evaluated. This policy is intended to
      protect the interests and rights of patients, and the fiscal, operational, and liability
      interests of OSH and the Oregon Health Authority (OHA).
   B. This policy applies to all staff at OSH.

II. POLICY
   A. Before OSH may accept an intern, OSH and the intern’s school must develop a
      written affiliation agreement. The agreement must include a plan for the
      internship, expectations of OSH supervision, and the OSH evaluation processes.
       1. The written plan must be submitted for review to both the school and a
          member of the OSH Superintendent’s Cabinet.
       2. An affiliation agreement must be approved by the Cabinet member and the
          school before an internship can start.
   B. All interns must follow the established OSH volunteer application process to
      become approved volunteers in accordance with OSH Policy and Procedure
      5.018, “Volunteers.” An intern may not begin their internship until approved by
      the Director of Volunteer Services as directed in that policy.
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 9.010
            Interns
Date:       July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 3

  C. Potential interns must be interviewed by the program manager or department
     manager or their designee to determine whether the student is a suitable
     candidate for internship.
  D. Interns must participate in orientation as determined by the Education and
     Development Department.
  F. Interns may receive meals at OSH if criteria in OSH Policy and Procedure 4.006,
     “Meal Service for HCP and Others” apply.
  G. If the preceptor deems the internship opportunity warrants a stipend, a request
     must be made to a Superintendent’s Cabinet member for approval. Stipends are
     not guaranteed for the duration of an internship period and are dependent on the
     status of the OSH budget.
        1. Stipends may not be higher than step one of the classification “Student
           Professional/Technical Worker” (Class 0150; Salary Range 11) unless
           approved by a Superintendent’s Cabinet member.
        2. Following approval, the preceptor must submit a standard purchase request
           form for the stipend each month to the appropriate member of the
           Superintendent’s Cabinet.
        3. Once signed by the Superintendent’s Cabinet member, the purchase
           request must go through the standard OSH approval process for payment.
           Once the purchase request is approved, a check will be issued to the intern.
  H. Interns must report hours to Volunteer Services.
  I. Volunteer Services will maintain files of all intern applications.
        1. The preceptor must send copies of the registration packet to Volunteer
           Services.
        2. At least annually the Director of Volunteer Services must review all intern
           files to verify files are current and complete. The appropriate preceptor must
           be notified for necessary updates.
  J. Interns must abide by all applicable OSH policies, procedures, protocols, and
     established processes. Failure to do so may result in early dismissal from the
     internship, termination of the internship agreement, or other necessary actions.
  K. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
     and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
     (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
     relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
     this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
  L. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
     may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
 Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 9.010
             Interns
 Date:       July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 3 OF 3

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Intern" for the purposes of this policy means an individual providing paid or
      unpaid program services to complete a credentialed or accredited educational
      program recognized by the State of Oregon and meets criteria established by the
      Bureau of Labor and Industries in Oregon Administrative Rule 839-005-0000. In
      this policy, the term “intern” will refer to both interns and students.
   B. “Preceptor” means a person who is responsible for supervising and guiding the
      student or intern and serves as a liaison between OSH and the college,
      university, or technical or vocational school.
   C. “School” in this policy means a college, university, or vocational/technical school.
   D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
   E. “Stipend” represents a payment that is made to an intern to compensate the
      intern for service provided to OSH.


IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   2.013 Electronic health record access
   4.006 Meal service for Staff and others
   Policy 5.018 Volunteers

V. REFERENCES
   Oregon Administrative Rule § 839-005-0000.
