                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 8:       Safety, Security, Emergency                                POLICY: 8.036
                 Management

SUBJECT:         FES Violence Mitigation Plan

POINT PERSON:    Forensic Evaluation Service
                 Director

APPROVED:        Dolores Matteucci                                      DATE: 12/18/2023


                 Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                               Minor/technical revision of
                                                          existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy


PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This policy and related procedures are established to mitigate potential risk and
      maintain a safe environment for patients and staff at Oregon State Hospital
      (OSH).
   B. This policy applies to all health care personnel (HCP).

POLICY
   A. Forensic Evaluation Service (FES) will minimize the potential for physical
      violence and injury among Oregon State Hospital (OSH) health care personnel
      (HCP), visitors, patients, and evaluees involved in FES evaluations. To this end,
      FES will strive to acquire pertinent information about potential violence,
      communicate such information to all persons who need it, and provide an
      evaluation environment that is safe and secure.
   B. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
      and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
      (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
      relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
      this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
   C. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
 Subject: FES Violence Risk Mitigation Plan                               Policy Number: 8.036

 Date: 12/18/2023


DEFINITIONS
   A. “Broset Violence Checklist (BVC or Broset)” is an evaluative instrument used to
      assess and convey short-term risk of violence.
   B. “Evaluee” in this policy includes any person receiving an evaluation from FES.
   C. “Health care personnel (HCP)” for the purposes of this policy means the
      population of health care workers working in the OSH healthcare setting. HCP
      might include, but is not limited to; physicians, nurses, nursing assistants,
      therapists, technicians, dental personnel, pharmacists, laboratory personnel,
      students and volunteers, trainees, contractual staff not employed by the facility,
      and persons not directly involved in patient care (e.g., clerical, dietary,
      housekeeping, maintenance).

PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Risk Notification for Evaluees in Correctional Facilities
   Procedures B       Implementation of Broset Violence Checklist

ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A       Broset Violence Checklist (“Broset”)

RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS

   OSH Policy 6.010 “Enhanced Supervision”

   OSH Policy 6.003 “Seclusion and Restraints”

   OSH Policy 8.039 “Secure Transport Restraints”

REFERENCES
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2018). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, PC.03.1.05. Oakbrook Terrace, IL.
