                        OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                               POLICY
  SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                               POLICY: 6.047

  SUBJECT:          Patient Food

  POINT PERSON:     Chief Clinical Dietitian

  APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                              DATE: SEPTEMBER 19, 2024


                    Interim Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:




I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes OSH’s dietary guidelines for patients and food-related
         procedures.
      B. This policy applies to all patients and must be implemented as written by all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) recognizes that food is an integral aspect of
         wellness and recovery. A healthy, balanced diet makes an important contribution
         to a person’s long-term health and wellbeing. Through person-centered care,
         education, and evidenced based practices, OSH provides high-quality, safe food
         that supports flexibility, respects choice, and optimizes health with the goal of
         leading to successful community transition.
         1. To the extent possible and practical, OSH provides and supports healthy food
            options in all OSH food environments.
         2. To the extent practical for the patient’s individual needs, patients are given
            some choice over their food to promote positive food decisions.
             a. The OSH Diet Manual establishes food choice guidelines for patients.
             b. Patients on a special diet may be limited to certain alternate meal choices
                based on what is clinically appropriate for that patient.
SUBJECT: Patient Food                                            POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

DATE:        September 19, 2024                                              PAGE 2 OF 9

    3. Food provided to patients may not be modified or withheld from a patient as a
       reward or punishment.
 B. Food Safety
    1. Food and Nutrition Services (FNS) must provide oversight for proper food
       handling, labeling, and storage practices at OSH. Food provided to patients at
       OSH must meet all established food sanitation rules and regulations.
    2. Food may not be stored in patient rooms or patient property rooms. Refer to
       Procedures C for Patient food handling, labeling and storage.
 C. OSH Dietitians oversee the nutritional aspects of patient care and maintain the
    OSH Diet Manual. Food provided to patients at OSH must meet all established
    dietary policy, rules, and regulations.
    1. The OSH Diet Manual outlines:
           a. Food practices and guidelines for all approved food sources,
           b. Available diets at OSH that must be ordered per Procedures A.
        2. The OSH Diet Manual is subject to change with notice to staff and patients.
 D. Approved Food Source for OSH patients
    1. Food sources are categorized as follows:
           a. OSH Dining Program food - provided by OSH as part of the OSH Dining
              Program (e.g., breakfast, lunch, dinner, menued snack)
           b. OSH Non-Dining Program food - provided by OSH that is not part of the
              OSH Dining Program (e.g., treatment group cooking class, treatment and
              activity groups, unit kitchenettes, food grown in OSH gardens and
              greenhouses, food purchases by SPOTS card, incentives, etc.)
           c. OSH Provided Foods for Patient Purchase – food supplied by OSH for
              purchase by patients with own funds (e.g. patient market, café, coffee
              shop)
    2. Food provided by OSH is reviewed and approved by designated persons to
       maintain food code requirements and ensure guidelines in the diet manual
       are followed.
           a. For OSH Dining Program food, designated persons include a food service
              supervisor and a clinical dietitian.
           b. For OSH Non-Dining Program food, designated persons may include OSH
              Treatment Services and Nursing.
SUBJECT: Patient Food                                            POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

DATE:     September 19, 2024                                                PAGE 3 OF 9

           i.   Clinical Dietitians may audit approval of Non-Dining Program food by
                designated persons listed above.
    3. Dining Program Food
        a. Three meals and menued snacks are made available each day to each
           patient. Planned Meals are provided to each patient according to a set
           schedule. When a patient is not able to attend a meal as scheduled (i.e.,
           outing, work schedule, etc.), they can receive a sack meal or clamshell.
        b. Weekly menus must be made available to patients and staff before the
           beginning date of the menu. Patients in need of translation services may
           seek services per OSH Policy 1.012 “Non-Discrimination and Alternate
           Language Access.”
        c. Nursing and FNS staff will collaborate to verify each patient receives their
           diet as ordered.
           i.   When patients eat on the unit, refer to Nursing protocol 2.210 for diet
                order review, food handling, storage, and labeling.
           ii. For meal and snack service in dining areas, refer to Procedures B.
        d. Patients on a special diet may be limited to certain alternate meal choices
           based on what is clinically appropriate for that patient.
    4. Non-Dining Program Food:
        a. Patients have access to food in addition to food provided by the OSH
           Dining Program. These foods can be acquired through Food and Nutrition
           Services or purchased with a SPOTS card.

        b. Staff providing food must be aware of patient diet orders (found in patient
           electronic medical record) and providing accommodations as needed for
           special diets.
        c. Food from the kitchenette or medication room may be available, as
           appropriate for the patient’s diet order, treatment care plan, and unit
           guidelines.
           i.   A medication-food-beverage compatibility guide is established by OSH
                Pharmacy for use on all units at OSH during medication administration.
           ii. Nutritional products supplied to medication rooms require practitioner
               order and documented when administration successful or
               unsuccessful.
SUBJECT: Patient Food                                            POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

DATE:     September 19, 2024                                                PAGE 4 OF 9

        d. Food for treatment groups, activities, celebrations, events, or outings or
           must be provided in accordance with the Diet Manual and are appropriate
           for the patient’s diet order.
           i.   All food purchased with state funds for events, outings, functions, or
                classes where staff may participate is subject to Oregon Accounting
                Manual policy 10.40.10, “Non-travel Meals and Refreshments.”
        e. All SPOTS card purchases are subject to OSH policy 4.018, “OSH
           Purchase and Maintenance,” Oregon Accounting Manual requirements for
           purchases with state funds and must adhere to the food guidelines in the
           SPOTS Card Safety Checklist.
           i.   Food incentives outside of the OSH Dining Program may be offered to
                patients as appropriate in balance with non-food prizes and incentives.
                Staff should reference the “SPOTS card safety checklist” found on the
                OSH Safety Owl page for food guidelines.
 E. OSH Provided Foods for Patient Purchase
    1. A patient may purchase food at the OSH patient market, café and coffee shop
       for their own consumption with their own funds.
        a. Food purchased by patients is considered patient property. Patient
           property is subject to storage and consumption regulations and
           designated dining area restrictions as defined in this policy, OSH policy
           8.037, “Patient Property and Valuables” and Nursing Protocol 2.210
           “Handling Patient Food on Units.”
        b. Patients may not share food with other patients or purchase food to be
           shared with other patients.
        c. Staff should make a reasonable effort to ensure foods purchased are per
           the patient’s approved diet order whenever possible or practical.
 F. Food not provided by OSH:
    1. Patients with appropriate privileges may purchase outside food for
       themselves during outings (see OSH policy 6.006, “On-grounds Off-grounds
       Movement").
        a. Food must be consumed during the outing and may not be brought back
           to OSH.
        b. Food may not be ordered, purchased, or sent to patients from outside
           OSH.
SUBJECT: Patient Food                                          POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

DATE:     September 19, 2024                                              PAGE 5 OF 9

        c. Staff should make a reasonable effort to ensure outside food is per the
           patient’s approved diet order whenever possible or practical.
    2. Visitors must adhere to OSH policy 8.026, “Visitors to Patients,” including any
       restrictions regarding bringing or sending food to patients.
 G. Caffeine
    1. OSH supports a balanced approach with caffeine for patients to enjoy the
       positive aspects of caffeine use while safeguarding their mental health and
       overall well-being.
    2. Refer to procedure D for Coffee Guidelines. Coffee and associated equipment
       must be obtained through Food and Nutrition Service.
        a. Though not restricted, consumption of caffeinated soda and tea may be
           limited when contraindicated.
    3. Interdisciplinary teams (IDT) retain the authority to implement specific caffeine
       restrictions for residents within their Treatment Care Plan (TCP) if it is
       determined that an individual is unable to self-regulate their caffeine
       consumption.
    4. Energy Drinks and similar beverages will not be made available for patient
       consumption on any OSH campus.
    5. Refer to Oregon State Hospital Patient Property/Items access list for non-
       OSH issued coffee and tea
 H. Patients must consume food in designated dining areas unless behavior, health,
    work, an appointment, a trip, school, or other activity prohibits participation.
    1. Exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Superintendent or
       Chief Medical Officer (CMO).
    2. Patient workers working along-side FNS staff may be granted an exception to
       designated dining area restrictions by the Director of FNS as appropriate or
       necessary.
 I. OSH values diversity and strives, where possible and practical, to accommodate
    cultural and faith system-based food requests. Patients may make special food
    requests per the Diet Manual.
 J. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
    and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
    (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
       SUBJECT: Patient Food                                           POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

       DATE:     September 19, 2024                                               PAGE 6 OF 9

           relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
           this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
        K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
           may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.    DEFINITIONS
        A. “Clam shell” in this policy means a disposable, one-piece container consisting of
           a bottom half and a top half connected at a hinge, which, when closed and
           latched, provides a sanitary and secure means of transporting and serving hot or
           cold food items.
        B. "Cook to serve item” means items that must be prepared (i.e., cooked) prior to
           serving.
        C. “Designated dining area(s)” include:
           1. Unit common area
           2. Unit kitchens
           3. Dining hall
           4. Café/cafeteria dining area
           5. Other areas approved for special events on a case-by-case basis
        D. "Dining hall” means a patient meal service area attached to either a Salem
           campus satellite kitchen or the Junction City production kitchen. A production
           kitchen means the main patient food storage, preparation, and distribution area
           for each OSH campus.
        E. “Directly consumable foods” are foods that are ready to eat and are safe for
           consumption that have been removed from their original packaging or OSH
           prepared container.
        F. “Food environments” include environments where patients may access OSH-
           provided food such as the dining hall, café, cafeteria, market, and unit
           kitchenettes. “Food environment” also refers to the patient’s experience with food
           at OSH.
        G. “Isolation” means the involuntary placement of a patient, who is suspected of or
           is diagnosed with a serious, highly infectious disease, alone in a locked room or
           area when it is medically necessary to prevent the spread of that infectious
           disease to other patients or staff. Isolation is not a form of restraint.
      SUBJECT: Patient Food                                            POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

      DATE:     September 19, 2024                                                 PAGE 7 OF 9

       H. “Menued Snack” are snacks as listed on the weekly menu for the OSH Dining
          Program.
       I. “OSH Dining Program/Service” in this policy means meals that are planned,
          provided by OSH, and served to patients at scheduled times (breakfast, lunch,
          dinner, snack).
       J. “Ready to eat item” means food items that are pre-packaged and do not require
          preparation prior to consumption.
       K. “Secure perimeter” means restricted high-security buildings, areas, and quads
          within the sallyport exits operated to management movement of persons within
          the OSH campus. The secure perimeter areas include all quads, the ball field,
          and Medical Clinic.
          1. The secure perimeter for Salem per OSH policy 6.006, “On-grounds Off-
             grounds Movement” includes the Kirkbride café, chart rooms on every unit,
             and the cubicle areas other than in Kirkbride building (floors 2-4).
          2. The secure perimeter for Junction City per OSH policy 6.006 includes the
             Valley café, chart rooms on every unit, and the first-floor cubicle area.
       L. "Serious, highly infectious disease” is a communicable disease which is widely
          considered highly contagious, which may lead to serious health consequences
          for a patient, including death.
       M. “Special diet” means the amount, type of ingredients, or selection of food or drink
          items is limited, restricted, or otherwise regulated for clinical or other therapeutic
          reasons. A special diet at OSH is more restricted than the DASH diet plan offered
          to all patients. Examples of special diet options at OSH include, but are not
          limited to:
          1. Vegan
          2. Gluten free
          3. Allergy-restricted diets (egg allergy or intolerance, shellfish allergy or
             intolerance, peanut/tree nut allergy, dairy intolerance, etc.)
       N. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
          and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
       O. “Transporting staff” in this policy means staff transporting patients between
          locations within the secure perimeter. Transporting staff are not escorting staff.

IV.    PROCEDURES
      SUBJECT: Patient Food                                       POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

      DATE:     September 19, 2024                                           PAGE 8 OF 9

       Procedures A     Diet Orders
       Procedures B     Meal and Snack Services
       Procedures C     Food Handling, Labeling, and Storage
       Procedures D     Coffee

V.     RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
       2.001 Infection Control Program
       6.003 Seclusion and Restraints
       6.006 On-grounds Off-grounds Movement
       6.011 Treatment Care Planning
       6.024 Transportation and Supervision Ratios
       6.029 Risk Review and Privileges
       6.031 Dysphagia Screening
       8.014 Room, Unit, Treatment Mall Searches
       8.026 Visitors to Patients
       8.037 Patient Property and Valuables
       8.044 Contraband and Prohibited Items
       Dietitians – OSH Diet Manual
       Nursing protocol 2.020, “Continuous Rounds, Census, and Milieu Management
          (RCM)”
       Nursing protocol 2.210, “Handling Patient Food on Units”
       Pharmacy protocol 13.009, “Medication/Food/Beverage Compatibility”



VI.    RELATED OSH FORMS
       Dietitians – Consult Request for Dietitian [form]
       Food and Nutrition Services – Bridges & Bird Med Room Order Form [form]
       Food and Nutrition Services – Cooking Class Order Form [form]
       Food and Nutrition Services – Fruit & Vegetable Orders [form – JC Only]
       SUBJECT: Patient Food                                                  POLICY NUMBER: 6.047

       DATE:      September 19, 2024                                                      PAGE 9 OF 9

        Food and Nutrition Services – Food and Nutrition Services Equipment Check-Out
        [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Harbors & Trails Med Room / Food Services Weekly
        Stock Form [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – JC Food Unit Based Activity Order Form [form – JC
        Only]
        Food and Nutrition Services – JC Kitchenette Par Stock [form – JC Only]
        Food and Nutrition Services – JC Med Room / Food Service Stock Form [form – JC
        Only]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Kitchenette Trails 1 and Bridges Par Stock [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Single Meal Diet Order Change by Nurse [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Special Event / Catering Request [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Springs Med Room Order Form [form]
        Food and Nutrition Services – Summer BBQ Request [form – Salem Only]

VII.    REFERENCES
        42 CFR § 482.28.
        Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
            for hospitals. MM.05.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
        Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
            for hospitals. MM.06.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
        Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
            for hospitals. PC.02.02.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
        Oregon Accounting Manual (2003). Non-travel Meals and refreshments. 10.40.10. Author.
        Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-150-0000.
        Oregon Administrative Rule § 333-520-0020.
        Occupational Safety and Health Administration [OSHA]. (2023). Regulations (Standards 1910.1030 -
           Bloodborne Pathogens). Retrieved from https://www.osha.gov/laws-
           regs/regulations/standardnumber/1910/1910.1030.
        U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (2022). Food Code. U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
            https://www.fda.gov/media/164194/download.
