                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 5:         Human Resource Management                                    POLICY: 5.020

  SUBJECT:           Staff and Adult in Custody
                     Worker Relationships

  POINT PERSON:      Chief Financial Officer/ Chief
                     Operations Officer

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                                     DATE: APRIL 6, 2023

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                                  Minor/technical revision of
                     New policy
                                                               existing policy

                     Reaffirmation of existing policy          Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes boundaries regarding relationships between Oregon State
         Hospital (OSH) staff and adult in custody workers.
      B. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. OSH staff must confine relationships with adult in custody workers to activities
         which are duly sanctioned as an integral part of assigned duties or
         responsibilities and which are consistent with professional conduct. On-duty or
         off-duty contact which is not related to work is prohibited, except as defined by
         this policy and procedures or other regulations.
      B. Staff may not knowingly engage in any personal or business transaction with any
         adult in custody worker or with an adult in custody worker’s family or friends,
         except as authorized in advance by the staff member’s supervisor or designee,
         the staff member’s position description, or as allowed by this policy.
      C. Relations between staff and an adult in custody is prohibited per Oregon Revised
         Statute (ORS) 163.452 and ORS 163.454.
      D. In the event disciplinary action is considered necessary in response to a violation
         of this policy, it will be carried out in accordance with provisions of this policy, the
         applicable collective bargaining agreements, and other regulations as needed.
       SUBJECT: Staff and Adult in Custody Worker                        POLICY NUMBER: 5.020
                Relationships

       DATE:      April 6, 2023                                                     PAGE 2 OF 3

         E. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         F. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Adult(s) in custody” is as defined in OSH policy 5.016, “Adults in Custody
            Workforce.” Adults in custody means any person working at OSH through the
            Adult in Custody Work Program under the supervision of the Department of
            Corrections (DOC) and who is not on parole, post-prison supervision, or
            probation status. Adults in custody in this policy does not refer to Oregon State
            Hospital patients.
         B. “Adult in Custody Program Coordinator” means the OSH manager assigned to
            serve as the Adult in Custody Work Program liaison between OSH and DOC.
         C. “Personal or business transaction” for the purpose of this policy includes, but is
            not limited to, giving or accepting personal gifts, favors, or special considerations
            of any kind.
         D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
            and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV.      PROCEDURES
         Procedures A     Staff Response to Staff and Adult in Custody Worker Relationships

V.       ATTACHMENTS

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
         1.003 Incident Reporting
         5.014 Conflict of Interest
         5.016 Adult in Custody Workforce
         5.018 Volunteers
         7.008 Abuse or Mistreatment Allegation Reporting
         9.002 Training for Staff
       SUBJECT: Staff and Adult in Custody Worker                          POLICY NUMBER: 5.020
                Relationships

       DATE:       April 6, 2023                                                    PAGE 3 OF 3

VII.     REFERENCES
         Oregon Revised Statute §§ 163.452 – 163.454.

         Oregon Revised Statute § 179.915.

         Oregon Revised Statute § 244.

         Shared Services. Conflict of interest, DHS/OHA 060-002. Author.
