                          OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                             POLICY
  SECTION 6:         Patient Care                                              POLICY: 6.024

  SUBJECT:           Transportation and Supervision
                     Ratios

  POINT PERSON:      Treatment Services Director

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                            DATE: NOVEMBER 17, 2022

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:        New policy                         Minor/technical revision of existing
                                                        policy

                     Reaffirmation of existing policy   Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) establishes transportation ratios, supervision ratios,
         and staff expectations during transports and patient activities within OSH’s
         secure perimeter to maintain a safe environment.
      B. This policy applies to transportation of patients between locations within the
         secure perimeter and supervision during off-unit patient activities within the
         secure perimeter.
      C. This policy does not apply to movement outside the secure perimeter (e.g., on-
         grounds walks or other patient-privileged outings). Staff escorting patients on
         patient-privileged outings should refer to OSH policy 6.006, “On-grounds and Off-
         grounds Movement.”
      D. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Staff transporting or supervising patient activities within the secure perimeter
         must follow Procedures A and take appropriate precautions to maintain a safe
         environment, such as securing doors and observing patient activity.
         1. Staff must be aware of and respond to security risks and patient needs,
            including physical disabilities. All staff are responsible to verify secure
            perimeter doors are latched closed and locked.
         2. Staff must wear a Personal Mobile Transmitter (PMT) per OSH policy 8.035,
            “Duress Alarm System,” and carry radios or state-issued cell phones when
SUBJECT: Transportation and Supervision Ratios                    POLICY NUMBER: 6.024

DATE:      November 17, 2022                                                 PAGE 2 OF 4

        transporting patients or during activity supervision within the secure
        perimeter.
  B. Staff must maintain appropriate transport and/or activity supervision staffing
     ratios per this policy.
     1. Patients and staff may request additional staff for a transport or for activity
        supervision.
     2. Visitors or volunteers may not count in the staffing ratio.
  C. Staff must provide identification badges to patients as required in OSH policy
     8.007, “Identification Badges.”
  D. Transportation ratios are not considered to be to supervision ratios, and
     supervision ratios are not considered to be transportation ratios.
  Transportation Ratios and Transporting Patients Within the Secure Perimeter
  A. Before transporting patients, staff must complete the transport training provided
     by OSH Staff Education and Development Department or Nursing department
     onboarding.
     1. Staff may be included in transportation ratios if they have been trained and if
        consistent with their position description or contract provisions.
  B. Minimum staff-to-patient transportation ratios inside the secure perimeter on both
     Salem and Junction City campuses of OSH are:
     1. Harbors units: two staff for one patient (2:1), two staff for groups of two to ten
        patients (2:10), adding one additional staff for every one to five additional
        patients (e.g., 3:15, 4:20);
     2. Secure Residential Treatment Facility (SRTF) level of care units: one staff for
        every patient (1:1), one staff for groups of two to eight patients (1:8), adding
        one additional staff for every eight patients (e.g., 2:16, 3:24), and
     3. All other units: one staff for one patient (1:1), one staff for groups of two to
        five patients (1:5), adding one additional staff for every one to five additional
        patients (e.g., 2:10, 3:15, 4:20).
  C. Unless an exception in OSH policy 8.039, “Secure Transport Restraints (STRs)”
     applies, STRs may not be used within the secure perimeter.
  D. If a patient is found unescorted, the staff person who finds them becomes
     responsible for the patient.
     1. Staff must immediately transport the patient to their home unit.
     2. If a patient attempts unauthorized leave, staff must follow OSH policy 8.018,
        “Unauthorized Leave”.
  Activity Supervision Ratios Within the Secure Perimeter
       SUBJECT: Transportation and Supervision Ratios                     POLICY NUMBER: 6.024

       DATE:      November 17, 2022                                                  PAGE 3 OF 4

         A. Minimum staff-to-patient activity supervision ratios for activities that occur off-unit
            and within the secure perimeter on both Salem and Junction City OSH campuses
            are as follows:
            1. One staff for every eight patients (1:8), at minimum, for all indoor activities
               (meals, therapeutic groups, etc.) inside the secure perimeter;
            2. For outdoor activities within the secure perimeter (e.g. quads, plazas, ball
               field):
                a. Vocational groups in indoor areas within the secure perimeter: one staff
                   for groups of one to five patients (1:5), and two staff for groups of six to
                   ten patients (2:10);
                b. All other activities in outdoor areas within the secure perimeter: one staff
                   for one patient (1:1), two staff for groups of two to ten patients (2:10),
                   adding one staff for every additional five patients (e.g., 3:15, 4:20).
         B. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         C. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Secure perimeter” means restricted high-security buildings, areas, and quads
            within the sallyport exits operated to manage movement of persons within the
            OSH campus. The secure perimeter areas include all quads, the ball field, and
            Medical Clinic.
            1. The secure perimeter for Salem is per Attachment B of OSH policy 6.006,
               “On-grounds and Off-grounds Movement,” and includes the Kirkbride café,
               chart rooms on every unit, and the cubicle areas other than in Kirkbride
               building (floors 2-4).
            2. The secure perimeter for Junction City is per Attachment C of OSH policy
               6.006, and includes the Valley café, chart rooms on every unit, and the first
               floor cubicle area.
            3. A secure perimeter door is any door within the above-listed secure perimeter
               areas.
         B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
            and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
       SUBJECT: Transportation and Supervision Ratios                         POLICY NUMBER: 6.024

       DATE:       November 17, 2022                                                      PAGE 4 OF 4

         C. “Supervision ratio” means the ratio of staff to patients required during off-unit
            patient activities on OSH campus within the secure perimeter.
         D. “Transportation ratio” or “transport ratio” means the ratio of staff to patients
            required for movement between locations within the secure perimeter.
         E. “Transporting staff” in this policy means staff transporting patients between
            locations within the secure perimeter. Transporting staff are not escorting staff,
            as defined in OSH policy 6.006.

IV.      PROCEDURES
         Procedures A       Transportation and Activity Supervision Staff Guidelines

 V.      ATTACHMENTS

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
         6.006 On-grounds and Off-grounds Movement
         6.029 Forensic Risk Review and Privileges
         6.043 Risk Review Panel for Civil Patients
         7.016 Outdoors and Fresh Air Patient Rights
         8.007 Identification Badges
         8.018 Unauthorized Leave
         8.035 Duress Alarm System
         8.039 Secure Transport Restraints
         8.041 Patient Personal Searches

VII.     REFERENCES
         42 CFR § 482.13

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2022). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral health care and human services, HRM.01.06.07. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2022). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for hospitals, EC.02.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2022). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for hospitals, LD.04.01.11. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
