                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 6:       Patient Care                                              POLICY: 6.046

SUBJECT:         Patient Falls Program

POINT PERSON:    Chief Nursing Officer

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                               DATE: FEBRUARY 18, 2025


                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                              Minor/technical revision of
                 New policy
                                                         existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy        Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This Policy and Procedures establishes expected response to patient falls and
      subsequent care and preventative measures to reduce risk of falls at Oregon
      State Hospital (OSH).
   B. This policy applies to all staff excluding students, volunteers or vendors unless
      properly supervised or trained.

II. POLICY
  A. Every patient shall be assessed for risk of falling via a Fall Risk Assessment per
     Nursing protocol 2.200 “Fall Risk Assessment” as described in Procedures A.
  B. A patient who falls must be appropriately addressed, evaluated, and monitored.
     For response to a fall and fall risk reassessment, see Procedures A.
  C. If any member of the IDT or direct care staff observes a potential change in
     patient status that may impact their fall risk, they should communicate this to the
     RN. The RN must determine if a reassessment of the fall risk is needed,
     justification for reassessment or not conducting a reassessment must be
     documented in avatar.
  D. Staff must monitor the patient care environment and will reasonably address
     potential fall hazards.
  E. The Falls Committee is an interdisciplinary group of fall prevention subject-matter
     experts whose primary goals are to promote patient safety, understand and
 Subject:                                                               Policy Number: 6.046
             Patient Fall Prevention Program
 Date:
             February 18, 2025                                                    P AGE 2 OF 3

      mitigate risks, reduce pre-/post-fall risks, improve patient outcomes, and provide
      training and awareness.
   F. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation standards.
      Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is more
      restrictive.
   G. Failure to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols may
      be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Fall” means a sudden, independent movement to the ground or lower surface
      that is unintentional, uncontrolled, or involuntary. It may be witnessed or not
      witnessed, with or without injury. A fall resulting from an aggressive interaction
      with another individual is not included in this definition. (NOTE: although fall
      monitoring processes would apply, such falls are reported separately.)
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Fall Risk Assessment, Response to a Fall and Reassessment

 V. HOSPITAL RESOURCES
   Patient Fall Prevention and Interventions OWL page

VI. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   Nursing Protocol 2.200 Fall Risk Assessment
   Nursing Protocol 2.205 Post Fall assessment and Monitoring



VII. REFERENCES
   42 CFR § 482.13(e).
   42 CFR § 482.41(a).
   42 CFR § 482.62(d).
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
   for hospitals. HR.01.05.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
   for hospitals. PC.01.01.01. – PC.01.02.08. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
Subject:                                                               Policy Number: 6.046
            Patient Fall Prevention Program
Date:
            February 18, 2025                                                    P AGE 3 OF 3

  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
  for hospitals. PC.02.03.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2025). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
  for hospitals. Sentinel Event Policy. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
