                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 1:        Administration                                             POLICY: 1.014

SUBJECT:          Data Governance

POINT PERSON:     Data and Analysis Manager

APPROVED:         Dolores Matteucci                             DATE: DECEMBER 28, 2023

                  Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




 PLEASE NOTE THAT ALL CHANGES WILL BE MADE AS TRACK CHANGES. TO CLEAR AND ACCEPT
 YOUR TRACK CHANGES, CONTACT OSH.POLICIESANDPROCEDURES@DHSOHA.STATE.OR.US.

PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

   A. This policy establishes the Oregon State Hospital (OSH) Data Governance
      Program and associated procedures to assure compliance with accrediting
      agencies, laws, regulations, and best practices related to data governance.

   B. This policy applies to all staff.

POLICY
   A. OSH will govern data as a component of hospital data management.
   B. The Data Governance Committee (DGC) will make data governance decisions,
      including:
      1. establishing appropriate responsibility for managing OSH data as an
         institutional asset;
      2. addressing data integrity by formalizing data security, collection, distribution,
         and retention; and
      3. governing information asset distribution according to the context for which it
         was created.
   C. DGC will govern an information asset that exceeds established thresholds for
      sensitivity or scope of distribution.
 Subject:                                                                Policy Number:1.014
              Data Governance
 Date:
              December 28, 2023                                                   P AGE 2 OF 4

         1. A unit or department may control an information asset which is created by
            that unit or department, and which is never reported, presented, or used by
            another department.
         2. An information asset created by a unit or department, and which is reported
            or used by a unit or department other than the one that created it must be
            assessed by the Data and Analysis Department (DA) to determine whether
            governance is needed.
   D. Information assets that require governance will be standardized as delineated in
      this policy.
   E. This policy applies to all staff including employees, volunteers, trainees, interns,
      contractors, vendors, and other state employees assigned to work at OSH.
   F. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services, Shared Services, and
      Oregon Health Authority policies; and relevant accreditation standards. Such
      regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is more
      restrictive.
   G. Staff who fails to comply with this policy or related procedures may be subject to
      disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

   DEFINITIONS
“Assessment” for the purposes of this policy refers to analyzing an information asset to
determine if the data contained within exceeds the established thresholds for either
sensitivity or scope of distribution.
“Data” for the purposes of this policy refers to the raw material for conveying
information, the basic component of information. Data is a collection of discrete values
including words, numbers, symbols, diagrams, images, or sounds/(audio).
“Data elements” refers to a unit of data defined by type (e.g., alphanumeric, true/false,
text, date); and name (i.e., “field name”, “tag”, or “caption”) or other identifier. Some data
elements have additional attributes such as size (e.g., number of characters or digits of
precision) and permissible values. Examples of data elements are: patient identification
number, patient name, phone number, county, diagnosis, or date of birth, images, or
audio.
“Data governance” means strategic planning and decision making on data-related
issues. Data governance activities include but are not limited to: addressing policies and
strategic initiatives on data-related topics; establishing data standards and protocols for
collection, displaying and storing data; and addressing data integrity issues by verifying
 Subject:                                                               Policy Number:1.014
              Data Governance
 Date:
              December 28, 2023                                                  P AGE 3 OF 4

that data is reported and presented within the appropriate context for which it was
intended.
“Data sensitivity” refers to data or information which requires controls on disclosure.
OSH-defined sensitive data elements are in the List of Governed Data
Elements. Examples of sensitive data include, but are not limited to: patient
identification number, patient name, admit date, diagnosis, or legal status.
“Discovery” refers to a continuous communication cycle of data governance at OSH that
includes DA scheduling annual assessments of known information assets and directors
and department managers notifying DA when a new information asset is created.
“Information asset” refers to a compilation of data where context can be applied and
includes, but is not limited to: reports, spreadsheets, databases, directories, repositories
of images, audio recordings, the electronic health record, or any combination of the
above.
“List of Governed Data Elements” refers to a list of data elements maintained by the
DGC. Data elements on this list contain data that exceed the threshold established for
either data sensitivity or scope of distribution. Examples of data elements on the list
include: patient identification number, social security number, or diagnosis.
“Scope of distribution” is a threshold established by the DGC that refers to the intended
audience and distribution of information.
“Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors, and
other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
“Standardization” is a process of applying OSH data guidelines to an information asset.
OSH data guidelines are maintained by DA and Technology Services and include, but
are not limited to:
            a. formalizing policies, rules, procedures, and protocols for the collection,
               display, transmission, security, and retention of data;
            b. requiring the use of uniform procedures for collection, validation, display
               and distribution for information assets that exceed the thresholds
               established for data sensitivity and scope of distribution;
            c. establishing safeguards and controls to guard data against accidental
               loss, damage, unauthorized alteration, unintentional change, and
               accidental destruction; and
            d. monitoring the compliance and continuous improvement process for
               hospital data.
 Subject:                                                                           Policy Number:1.014
               Data Governance
 Date:
               December 28, 2023                                                           P AGE 4 OF 4


PROCEDURES
    Procedures A        Data Governance Procedures

RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS

OSH Policy 2.013 “Electronic Health Record Access”

OSH Policy 2.006 “Public Records Retention and Destruction”

OSH Policy 2.008 “Privacy Security of Patient Information”

REFERENCES
Department of Human Services and Oregon Health Authority Shared Services. General security policy,
090-001. Author.

Department of Human Services and Oregon Health Authority Shared Services. Information System Audit
and Monitoring Process, 090-002. Author.

Department of Human Services and Oregon Health Authority Shared Services. Information Security and
Privacy Awareness and Training, 090-004. Author.

Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual for
hospitals, IM.02.01.03 EP2. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual for
hospitals, IM.02.02.03 EP1. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

Office of Information Services (2022, January). General privacy, 100-001. Author.
