                                                   SHARED SERVICES
                                              Office of Information Services
                                         Information Security and Privacy Office

    Operational Policy

    Policy title:             Information System Maintenance Policy

    Policy number:            ODHSOHA 090-012

    Original date:             06/06/2022                       Last update: 2/1/2026
                              Kris Kautz, Deputy Director OHA
    Approved:
                              Seth Lyons COO ODHS

Purpose
The Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) and the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) are
responsible for the establishment and implementation of information system controls that safeguard the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information systems.

Description
This policy addresses risks related to information systems maintenance and repairs by establishing an
information system maintenance program. This policy outlines the requirements for maintenance of
information systems and information system components for ODHS and OHA.

Applicability
This policy applies to all ODHS and OHA staff including full-time, part-time, contingent, temporary, and
limited duration employees, volunteers, trainees, and interns.

As keepers of the public trust, all ODHS and OHA staff play a vital role in upholding state and agency
policies, administrative rules, and state and federal laws. ODHS and OHA are committed to exceptional
public and customer service. The agencies are dedicated to maintaining standards of exceptional
service and trust staff to do the same. Failure to follow policies, rules and laws may result in beginning
a personnel process to consider formal action as appropriate, including progressive discipline up to and
including dismissal from state service.

If this policy is intended to apply to contractors or grantees the necessary language must incorporated
into the contract.

Policy
1. The information system owner1 or designee shall authorize, approve, control, and monitor
     maintenance and diagnostic activities performed on ODHS and OHA virtual or physical
     information systems, hardware, or software whether those activities are performed on or off-site.
2. Maintenance is any act that either prevents the failure or malfunction of equipment, software, or
     systems, or restores its operating capability.2


1
    National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) SP 800-53 Rev. 5 Glossary
2
    NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 Maintenance (MA)-1

                                                       Page 1 of 4                     ODHSOHA 090-012 (02/2026)
3.   This policy shall apply to all information systems and information system components that are
     managed by, or managed for, ODHS and OHA including, but not limited to:
      a. Mainframes, servers, and other devices that provide centralized computing capabilities.
      b. Devices that provide centralized storage capabilities.
      c. Desktops, laptops, and other devices that provide distributed computing capabilities.
      d. Mobile communication devices.
      e. Routers, switches, and other devices that provide network capabilities.
      f. Firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention systems, and other devices that provide
          dedicated security capabilities.
      g. Associated media such as scanners, copiers, and printers.
4.   Maintenance requirements for cloud or hosted service providers shall align with the Statewide
     Information Technology (IT) Control Standards and reflect the agreed upon service level
     agreement.
5.   The information system owner or designee shall approve the removal of information systems or
     information system components for off-site maintenance, repair, or replacement,3 and ensure that
     the equipment being maintained does not contain agency information4 by:
     a. Verifying that organizational information is not contained on the equipment when the
          equipment has the capability of retaining information.
     b. Sanitizing or destroying the equipment in accordance with state and federal requirements.
     c. Retaining the equipment within the facility.
     d. Obtaining an exemption from the information owner explicitly authorizing removal of the
          equipment from the facility.
6.   All media containing agency data shall be sanitized in accordance with ODHSOHA 090-011-01
     Media Disposal Process prior to removal for off-site maintenance, repair, or replacement.5
7.   Only authorized staff shall schedule, perform, document, and review records of maintenance and
     repairs on information system components in accordance with manufacturer, vendor, or partner
     specifications and organizational requirements. Authorized staff shall:
     a. Send notification of the date, time, and description of the planned maintenance activity to
          ODHSOHA information system owners in accordance with the ODHSOHA 070-015
          Information Technology Change Management Policy.
     b. Coordinate and follow maintenance activities inside of designated change management
          windows as required by ODHSOHA 070-015 and the OIS Change Management Process.
     c. Monitor vendor and partner changes that have potential to impact the ODHS and OHA
          information systems environment.
     d. Coordinate with appropriate OIS units to complete activities necessary for repair, dependent
          upon the warranty coverage of the device.
8.   Only authorized staff or technicians shall have unescorted access to agency-owned information
     systems. Individuals without appropriate access, such as Criminal Justice Information Services
     (CJIS) clearance, shall be escorted at all times by staff with the technical competence to supervise
     the maintenance activities.6 7


3
  NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 MA-2
4
  NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 MA-3.b(3)
5
  Statewide IT Control Standards MA-2(d)
6
  Statewide IT Control Standards MA-5(1)
7
  Statewide IT Control Standards MA-5.c.

                                              Page 2 of 4                ODHSOHA 090-012 (02/2026)
9.    All access by vendors for maintenance activities, whether performed on-site or remotely, and for
      maintenance tools that execute with increased privilege, shall be approved, monitored, and
      documented including:
      a. Using remote maintenance, diagnostic tools, and encryption consistent with agency policy
           and documented in the security plan for the system.
      b. Employing strong authentication in the establishment of remote sessions.
      c. Terminating session and network connections when remote maintenance is completed.
10.   Following maintenance, repair, or replacement actions, authorized staff shall check all potentially
      affected controls to verify that the controls are still functioning properly.
11.   Maintenance tools shall be approved, controlled, monitored, and documented in accordance with:
      a. IT Standards and Approved Products List.
      b. Approved contracts with third party entities.
12.   Maintenance tools can include hardware, software, and firmware items such as diagnostic test
      equipment and packet sniffers.8 The use of maintenance tools shall be restricted to authorized
      staff and comply with the following requirements:
      a. Have current patches and updates installed.
      b. Be inspected for improper or unauthorized modifications.
      c. Be checked for malicious code before use in the system.
      d. Be reviewed at least annually.
13.   Maintenance support and spare or replacement parts shall be available for critical information
      systems.9
14.   Information system maintenance records shall be retained as long as the system is operational.
      When the system is decommissioned, the records follow the record retention requirements.
      System maintenance records shall include the following information:10
      a. Component name.
      b. Component serial number.
      c. Date and time of maintenance.
      d. Maintenance performed.
      e. Names of entity performing maintenance, including the escort if required.

References
Acceptable Risk Controls for Affordable Care Act for Medicaid Partner Exchanges
Center for Internet Security Critical Security Controls
Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Security Policy
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) SP 800-53 Rev. 5, Security and Privacy
Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations
NIST SP 800-82 Rev. 3 Guide to Operational Technology (OT) Security
ODHSOHA 090-011-01 Media Disposal Process
Oregon Administrative Rules (OARs) 166-300-0030(1) Information and Records Management Records


8
  NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5, MA-3
9
  Statewide IT Control Standards MA-6
10
   Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) 5.9.4, MA-2(f)1-4

                                                        Page 3 of 4       ODHSOHA 090-012 (02/2026)
Statewide Information Technology (IT) Control Standards
OIS Change Management Process
IT Standards and Approved Products List

Related policies
DAS 107-004-110 Acceptable Use of State Information Assets
DAS 107-004-150 Cloud or Hosted Systems Policy
ODHSOHA 070-006 Disaster Recovery Policy for Information Technology
ODHSOHA 070-015 Information Technology Change Management Policy
ODHSOHA 090-009 Administrative, Technical and Physical Safeguards of Information Policy

This policy shall be reviewed and updated at least once every year and following any security incidents
involving unauthorized access to CJI or systems used to process, store, or transmit CJI.

Contact
Information Security and Privacy Office
OIS-ISPO-InfoSecurity@odhsoha.oregon.gov

History
Version 1 ODHS|OHA 090-012 established 06/06/2022
Version 2 revised 04/03/2023
Version 3 revised 09/09/2024
Version 4 reviewed 02/01/2026

Keywords
Equipment, maintenance tools, remote maintenance

You can get this document in other languages, large print, braille or a format you prefer free of charge.
Contact Publications and Creative Services at dhs-oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov or 503-
373-1342. We accept all relay calls.




                                              Page 4 of 4                ODHSOHA 090-012 (02/2026)
