                                   OFFICE OF INFORMATION SERVICES
                                  Information Security and Privacy Office


 Operational Policy
 Policy title:        HIPAA: Minimum Necessary Requirements

 Policy number:       ODHS|OHA 100-008
                                                                         (Joint ODHS|OHA)
 Original date:       07/22/2014 (OHA only)             Last update:
                                                                         01/24/2022
                      Kris Kautz, OHA Deputy Director
 Approved:
                      Don Erickson, ODHS Chief Administrative Officer

Purpose
This Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) policy is one of a series that outlines
Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) expectations for
the necessary collection, use, and disclosure of protected health information (PHI) about individuals
in order to provide services and benefits while maintaining reasonable safeguards to protect the
privacy of their information.

ODHS|OHA staff should review all ODHS|OHA privacy policies to be sure they understand how these
policies work together to protect individual privacy.

Description
This policy describes the responsibility of the ODHS|OHA staff to maintain the privacy of an
individual’s PHI by using, disclosing, or requesting only the minimum amount of information
necessary to complete the task for which the information is being used, disclosed, or requested.

Applicability
This policy applies to all OHA staff (see OAR 943-914-9915) and ODHS staff working in Business
Associate programs (see ODHS 100-013) including employees, volunteers, interns, and contractors.
This definition of staff aligns with the HIPAA definition of workforce.

As keepers of the public trust, ODHS|OHA staff has a responsibility to comply with state and
ODHS|OHA policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. ODHS|OHA take this
responsibility seriously and failure to fulfill this responsibility is not treated lightly. Staff who fail to
comply with state or agency policy, administrative rule, or state and federal law may face progressive
discipline, up to and including dismissal from state service.

Policy
1. When using, disclosing, or requesting PHI, ODHS|OHA shall use reasonable efforts to limit the
   use, disclosure, or request of PHI for the intended purposes only (the “Minimum Necessary
   Standard”) and only to the extent provided by federal and state statutes, federal and state rules,
   and ODHS|OHA policies.
                                                Page 1 of 4
2. The minimum necessary standard does not apply to:
    a. Disclosures to or requests by a health care provider made for treatment purposes.
    b. Disclosures made to the individual who is the subject of the information.
    c. Uses or disclosures made pursuant to an individual’s authorization.
    d. Uses or disclosures required for compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and
        Accountability Act (HIPAA).
    e. Disclosures made to the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
        when disclosure is required under the Privacy Rule for enforcement purposes.
        A. When requests are received from HHS Office for Civil Rights (OCR), the ODHS|OHA
           Privacy Compliance Officer shall be contacted immediately.
        B. The ODHS|OHA Privacy Compliance Officer or a designee will lead and coordinate
           investigations or requests from OCR.
    f. Uses or disclosures that are required by any other law.
3. All ODHS|OHA staff shall report any suspected violation of the minimum necessary standard to
    the Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO) immediately.
4. A routine and recurring disclosure is the ongoing release of specific and agreed upon PHI, to a
    single and specific requester in an established schedule or interval.
5. ODHS|OHA may designate the release of an agreed amount of PHI as a routine and recurring
    disclosure to a single individual or entity.
    a. ODHS|OHA is not required to conduct a full review for each routine and recurring disclosure to
        the same requester.
    b. The ODHS|OHA staff making the disclosure should confirm that the type and amount of PHI
        disclosed is consistent with the determination made during the initial review.
6. Requests for the disclosure of PHI that have not been approved as routine and recurring shall be
    reviewed on an individual basis to determine whether the information is subject to disclosure
    under federal and state statute and rule, ODHS|OHA policy, and applicable program
    requirements.
7. Disclosures of PHI that are required by law have been designated by OHA as routine and
    recurring uses, including:
    a. Mandatory Medicaid reports.
    b. Records necessary to carry out audit or oversight of ODHS|OHA programs or activities when
        the records are requested by federal or state agencies including the Department of Health and
        Human Services Office for Civil Rights and the Office of the Inspector General; Center for
        Medicaid Services; or the State of Oregon Medicaid Fraud Unit or Secretary of State.
8. Release of an approved PHI data set to a requester for whom the initial release was authorized is
    not a routine and recurring disclosure. These requests are new requests.
9. If ODHS|OHA deems it necessary or appropriate, ODHS|OHA may disclose PHI as a routine and
    recurring use to the Oregon Department of Justice to obtain advice and legal services.
10. ODHS|OHA shall not disclose an individual’s entire medical record, unless the entire medical
    record is specifically justified as the amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose of
    the disclosure, or the disclosure is not subject to the minimum necessary standard.
11. When ODHS|OHA requests an individual’s PHI from another entity, authorized ODHS|OHA staff
    members shall review the request and ensure that it meets the minimum necessary standard.
    a. To determine the minimum necessary amount of PHI to request, ODHS|OHA shall:
        A. Determine the purpose of the request; and
        B. Identify the data elements that are reasonably necessary to fulfill the request.

                                             Page 2 of 4
    b. ODHS|OHA shall not request an individual’s entire medical record unless ODHS|OHA can
        specifically justify the need for the entire medical record.
12. If ODHS|OHA policy conflicts with federal or state statute or rule, that statute or rule supersedes
    unless the ODHS|OHA policy provides more protection.

References
45 CFR 160 General Administrative Requirements
45 CFR 164 Security and Privacy
Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 192 Public Records Policy
Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) 943-014-0000 to 943-014-0320 Privacy and Confidentiality
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (SP) 800-53 Rev. 5
Oregon Department of Human Services Office of Equity and Multicultural Services REALD AND Data
Equity
Oregon Health Authority Office of Equity and Inclusion HB 2134-Race, Ethnicity, Language, and
Disability (REALD) Implementation


Forms
MSC 2093 Request for Access to Records
MSC 3010 Authorization for Disclosure, Sharing and Use of Individual Information

Policies
DHS 100-003 Uses and Disclosures of Individual Information

Contact
Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO)
Phone: 503-945-5780 (Privacy)
privacyoffice@odhsoha.oregon.gov

U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights
Medical Privacy, Complaint Division
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Toll free Phone: 877-696-6775
Phone: 866-627-7748
TTY: 886-788-4989
Email: mailto:OCRComplaint@hhs.gov

Policy History
Version 1.0 OHA 100-008 established 09/20/2013
Version 2.0 Reviewed 10/03/2016
Version 3.0 ODHS|OHA 100-008 established 01/24/2022

Keywords
Access, authorization, disclose, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, HIPAA, individual
information, minimum necessary, records, release


                                              Page 3 of 4
This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with disabilities or
in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To request this document in
another format or language, contact the Publications and Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for
TTY, or email dhs-oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov.




                                             Page 4 of 4
