                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 6:         Patient Care                                             POLICY: 6.016

  SUBJECT:           Sexual Activity Involving Patients

  POINT PERSON:      Chief Medical Officer

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                            DATE: FEBRUARY 16, 2024

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:




I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) has the responsibility to take reasonable steps to
         discourage sexual contact between patients and to direct appropriate follow-up
         actions if sexual contact or sexual assault occurs. This policy establishes
         definitions of appropriate touch and inappropriate sexual behaviors for patients
         and expectations for staff response in the event of such behaviors.
      B. This policy applies to all staff and patients.

II.   POLICY
      A. Staff and patients are authorized to use appropriate touch; however, staff and
         patients must receive permission before touching another person. Even if
         permission is received, the other party may change their mind at any time, and
         the appropriate touch must stop immediately.
      B. If sexual contact or other inappropriate sexual behavior between patients is
         observed, staff must interrupt those behaviors and immediately notify a manager
         on site (Program Nurse Manager, Security Manager, Nurse Manager or Unit
         Administrator) to support necessary interventions and/or follow up.
      C. Staff must follow Procedures A if staff witness or receive reported allegations of a
         patient engaging in inappropriate sexual behaviors (other than sexual contact)
         with another person.
      D. Staff must follow Procedures B if staff witness or receive reported allegations of a
         patient engaging in sexual contact with another person. Patient sexual contact is
       SUBJECT: Sexual Activity Involving Patients                      POLICY NUMBER: 6.016

       DATE:      February 16, 2024                                                PAGE 2 OF 4

            considered a reportable incident per OSH policy 1.003, “Incident Reporting,” and
            a sentinel event per OSH policy 2.012, “Sentinel Events.”
         E. Staff must follow OSH policy 8.019, “Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts,”
            when responding to an allegation of sexual assault.
         F. Staff must provide education to patients, family members, and patient
            representatives about this policy.
         G. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         H. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Appropriate touch” includes, but is not limited to:
            1. Handshakes,
            2. Fist bumps,
            3. Touching a person’s shoulder,
            4. Side hugs, and
            5. Any behavior normally associated with friendship or emotional support.
         B. “Inappropriate sexual behaviors” include:
            1. Sexual contact,
            2. Intimate/inappropriate touching,
            3. Kissing,
            4. Extended hand holding,
            5. Full body hugs,
            6. Hugs from behind,
            7. Sexual conversations/statements,
            8. Going off alone with another patient to be more intimate,
      SUBJECT: Sexual Activity Involving Patients                      POLICY NUMBER: 6.016

      DATE:      February 16, 2024                                                PAGE 3 OF 4

           9. Other behaviors normally associated with sexual interactions or relationships,
              and/or
           10. Any sexual or dating behavior the interdisciplinary treatment team deems as
               contraindicated for recovery.
        C. “Representative” in this policy means a person who legally acts on behalf of a
           patient.
        D. “Sexual abuse” is as defined by ORS 430.735(13). The definition of sexual abuse
           includes any incident which meets the definition of sexual assault, as well as
           incidents of non-consensual sexual behavior without sexual contact. An example
           of this includes but is not limited to exposing one’s genitals to someone else
           without their consent. (If any sexual behavior occurs in which one party is a staff
           and the other is a patient, it is always considered assault or abuse, even if the
           patient asserts that they consented.)
        E. “Sexual assault” means an incident of sexual contact between patients where
           criminal activity is alleged to have occurred as defined by Oregon Criminal Code,
           including, but not limited to, non-consensual sexual intercourse or penetration,
           and those acts involving an alleged victim who lacks capacity to consent to sexual
           contact. (If any sexual behavior occurs in which one party is a staff and the other
           is a patient, it is always considered assault or abuse, even if the patient asserts
           that they consented.)
        F. “Sexual contact” is defined by ORS 163.305 and means any touching of the
           sexual or other intimate parts of a person or causing such person to touch the
           sexual or other intimate parts of the actor for the purpose of arousing or gratifying
           the sexual desire of either party.
        G. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
           and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV.     PROCEDURES
        Procedures A     Staff Response to Inappropriate Sexual Behavior Involving Patients
        Procedures B     Staff Response to Sexual Contact or Alleged Sexual Contact
                         Involving Patients

V.      ATTACHMENTS

VI.     RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
        1.003 Incident Reporting
        2.012 Sentinel Events
       SUBJECT: Sexual Activity Involving Patients                            POLICY NUMBER: 6.016

       DATE:       February 16, 2024                                                      PAGE 4 OF 4

         5.009 Staff and Patient Relationships
         6.011 Treatment Care Planning
         6.045 Clinical Documentation
         6.052 Trauma Screening
         7.008 Patient Abuse Allegation Reporting
         8.019 Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts

VII.     REFERENCES
         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2022). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for hospitals, EC.02.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2022). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for hospitals, PC.01.02.09. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
         Oregon Administrative Rule § 407-045-0400.
         Oregon Administrative Rule § 943-0450-0260.
         Oregon Revised Statute § 163.305.
         Oregon Revised Statute § 163.315.
         Oregon Revised Statute § 124.050.
