                       OREGON STATE HOSPITAL

SECTION 6:         Patient Care                                                POLICY: 6.071

SUBJECT:           Oregon State Hospital History and
                   Physical Examination Requirements

POINT PERSON:      Chief Medical Officer              r
APPROVED:          Jim Diegel                                              DATE: 10/30/2025

                   Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      ,•• New policy                           r Minor/technical revision of
                                                            existing policy

                 r Reaffirmation of existing policy       r Major revision of existing policy

 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A This policy further defines the Oregon State Hospital ("Hospital") and Medical
     and Allted Health Professional Staff ("MAHPS") requirements for performing and
     documenting Comprehensive History and Physical ("H&P") examinations, as
     referenced in the MAHPS Bylaws. Clinical Departments may establish additional
     protocols with this policy. If a department protocol conflicts with this policy, this
     policy takes precedence.
   B. This policy applies to Medical and Allied Health Professional Staff.

II. GUIDELINES
   A A complete history and physical examination are required for all admissions and
     all inpatient procedures requiring anesthesia. OSH does not perform inpatient
     procedures requiring anesthesia, so this pollcy addresses the requirements for
     the admission history and physical.
   B. OSH does not currently conduct outpatient surgical or procedural services that
      qualify for an assessment instead of a complete history and physical
      examination. As stated in the Medical Staff Bylaws, if OSH conducts qualifying
      outpatient surgical or procedural services in the future, the medical staff shall
      define the specific types of patients and/or procedures that qualify for an
      assessment instead of a complete history and physical examination.
Subject: Oregon State Hospital History and                       Policy Number: 6.071
Physical Requirements
Date:
                                                                          PAGE 2 OF 3
10/30/2025


  C. As stated in the Medical Staff Bylaws, a history and physical examination shall be
     completed no more than thirty (30) days before or twenty-four (24) hours after
     admission or registration.
     a. If the history and physical examination cannot be completed due to the
        patient's condition, including refusal, the medical record shall be updated to
        reflect the attempt to complete the history and physical examination in
        accordance with protocol Med-Clin 8.001 Admission, Annual and Discharge
        Physical Exams and Laboratory Evaluations, Including Refusals.
     b. If the history and physical examination were completed within thirty (30) days
        before registration or inpatient admission, an update documenting any
        changes in the patient's condition is required within twenty-four (24) hours
        after registration or inpatient admission.
  D. A complete history and physical examination report must include the following
     information:
     a. Chief complaint or reason for the admission or procedure,
     b. A description of the present illness,
     c. Past medical history, including medications, allergies, past and present
         diagnoses, illnesses, operations, injuries, treatment, and health risk factors,
     d. An age-appropriate social history,
     e. A pertinent family history,
     f. A review of systems,
     g. A screening neurological exam, including the cranial nerves, with a complete
         neurological exam if indicated,
     h. Cardiorespiratory exams,
     i. Other relevant physical exams, and
     j. Documentation of medical decision-making, including a review of diagnostic
         test results, response to prior treatment, assessment, clinical impression or
         diagnosis, plan of care, evidence of medical necessity, and appropriateness
         of diagnostic and/or therapeutic services, counseling provided, and
         coordination of care.
  E. The practitioner performing the history and physical is expected to use his or her
     clinical judgment based on the patient's condition to determine the extent of
     additional examination. MAH PS has developed guidelines that can be
     referenced in Med-Clin 8.001 Attachment A: Guidelines for the History and
     Physical Protocol.
  F. A Doctor of Medicine (MD), Doctor of Osteopathy (DO), Nurse Practitioner (NP)
     or Physician Assistant (PA) with admitting privileges are permitted to complete
     the history and physical examination if it's within the practitioner's scope of
     practice for the care of the medical problem that may be present on admission or
 Subject: Oregon State Hospital History and                                    Policy Number: 6.071
 Physical Requirements
 Date:
                                                                                           PAGE 3 OF 3
 10/30/2025


       that may arise during an inpatient stay. These practitioners must be granted the
       appropriate clinical privileges to perform the history and physical.
   G. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
      and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
      (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
      relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
      this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
   H. Failure to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols may
      be subject to disciplinary action.

Ill. DEFINITIONS (SEE GLOSSARY)

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.001 Policy System at OSH
   Med-Clin 8.001 Admission, Annual and Discharge Physical Exams and Laboratory
   Evaluations, Including Refusals
   Med-Cl in 8.001 Attachment A - History and Physical Protocol

V. REFERENCES
   TJC PC.01 .02.03-04: The patient receives a medical history and physical examination no more than
   30 days before, or within 24 hours after, registration or inpatient admission, but prior to surgery or a
   procedure requiring anesthesia services.
   T JC PC.01 .02.03-05: As stated.
    TJC MS.03.01 .01-06: The organized medical staff specifies the minimal content of medical histories
   and physical examinations, which may vary by setting or level of care, treatment, and services. (See
   also PC.01 .02.03, EP 4)
    CFR §482.61 (a)(5) When indicated, a complete neurological examination must be recorded at the
   time of the admission physical examination.
