                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 5:        Human Resource Management                              POLICY: 5.024

SUBJECT:          HEART Trauma Response
                  Program

POINT PERSON:     Trauma Response Coordinator

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                  DATE: JULY 31, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                           Minor/technical revision of
                                                       existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy     Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) recognizes that staff are a valued resource and are
      essential to OSH’s mission of delivering high quality, recovery-oriented,
      compassionate, cost-effective, and respectful mental health services. OSH
      provides a trauma response program via the Hospital Employee’s Assistance
      Response Team (HEART) to offer timely support to staff who have been involved
      in, have witnessed, or who have been affected by a traumatic incident. This
      policy establishes the trauma response program through HEART and provides
      guidance to staff for participating in or using this resource.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. Participation in HEART is voluntary.
      1. Any staff may request the services of a trained HEART responder for another
         staff who has been impacted by a traumatic event.
      2. The supervisor receiving information regarding a traumatic incident involving
         staff is responsible to contact HEART for support services.
      3. If a staff member may require services beyond the scope of HEART, the staff
         member may be referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and/or
         onsite counselor.
Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 5.024
             HEART Trauma Response Program
Date:
             July 31, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 4

  B. If emergency medical services are necessary after a traumatic incident, staff
     must follow OSH policies 8.002, “Emergency Medical Care Provided by OSH,”
     and 8.038, “Code Blue Medical Emergency”.
  C. At the discretion of the Superintendent or On-Call Administrator, in consultation
     with the appropriate unit manager/administrator, program nurse manager, or
     director of nursing services, a staff member may be relieved from duty and
     replaced by another staff member if there is a question of a staff member’s
     fitness for duty.
  D. Subject to minimum staffing requirements, a staff member who feels unable to
     perform assigned job duties may request to be relieved of assigned duties. The
     staff member may use “critical incident leave” or accrued leave according to
     applicable Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Oregon Health
     Authority (OHA), and OSH policies as well as applicable union contracts.
  E. Trauma responder assistance and support will be provided in a nonthreatening
     and confidential environment separate from any investigative process that may
     occur related to the traumatic incident.
        1. Exceptions to confidentiality will be made for communications or actions that
           meet criteria in OSH Policy and Procedure 7.008, “Patient Abuse or
           Mistreatment Allegation Reporting” and other regulations regarding abuse
           reporting.
        2. HEART responders must disclose confidential information in accordance with
           requirements for mandatory reporters, including:
           a. information for a court-ordered subpoena;
           b. indication that the impacted staff member is going to commit a crime;
           c. warning that the impacted staff member is going to harm themselves or
              others.
  F. Trauma responders must receive education and training pertaining to effective,
     evidence-based, trauma response services. Training is coordinated and provided
     by the Trauma Response Coordinator in collaboration with OSH Education
     Services, the EAP, and other contracted service providers as necessary.
  G. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
     rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
     and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
     standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
     policy is more restrictive.
 Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 5.024
               HEART Trauma Response Program
 Date:
               July 31, 2024                                               P AGE 3 OF 4

   H. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
   B. “Traumatic incident” for the purposes of this policy means a situation or event
      that creates a significant risk of substantial or serious harm to the physical,
      mental, or emotional health; safety; or well-being of a person and may impact the
      person’s ability to function adequately in working or personal environments.
      Examples of traumatic incidents may include, but are not limited to:
         1. serious injury or threat of serious injury,
         2. suicide or serious suicide attempt,
         3. assault,
         4. death,
         5. sexual abuse,
         6. an event that elicits memories of past trauma.
   C. “Trauma responders” refers to volunteer staff from various disciplines throughout
      the hospital and Training and Support Department (TSD) who have received
      training specific to the HEART responder role.
   D. “Trauma Response Coordinator” means the person designated to coordinate
      HEART services.

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A         Staff Responsibilities

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.003 Incident Reporting
   2.012 Sentinel Events
   5.028 Electronic Time Management System
   6.052 Trauma Screening
   7.008 Patient Abuse or Mistreatment Allegation Reporting
   8.002 Emergency Medical Care Provided by OSH
 Subject:                                                                  Policy Number: 5.024
             HEART Trauma Response Program
 Date:
             July 31, 2024                                                         P AGE 4 OF 4

   8.019. Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts and Contraband
   8.038 Code Blue Medical Emergency

VI. REFERENCES
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals. LD.03.09.01. Author.
   Service Employees International Union Local 503 State of Oregon 2023 – 2025 Collective Bargaining
       Agreement, Contract Article 136.
