                                      SHARED SERVICES
                             OFFICE OF INFORMATION SERVICES
                            Information Security and Privacy Office


Operational Policy
Policy Title:     HIPAA: ODHS|OHA Business Associate Relationships

Policy
                  ODHSOHA 100-013
Number:

Original Date: 7/22/2014                       Last Update:      11/07/2022
                  Kris Kautz, OHA Deputy Director
Approved:
                  Don Erickson, Chief Administrative Officer, ODHS

Purpose
This Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) policy is one of a
series that outlines Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) and Oregon
Health Authority (OHA) expectations for the necessary collection, use, and disclosure
of protected health information (PHI) about individuals in order to provide services and
benefits while maintaining reasonable safeguards to protect the privacy of their
information.

ODHS and OHA workforce shall review all ODHS and OHA privacy policies to protect
individual privacy and ensure compliance.
Description
This policy describes the responsibilities of ODHS programs that are business
associates of OHA when creating, receiving, maintaining, or transmitting individual
PHI.

Applicability
This policy applies to all ODHS and OHA staff including employees, volunteers,
interns, and agency contractors employed by or doing business with the covered entity
components of OHA or the business associate components of ODHS.

As keepers of the public trust, all agency employees have a responsibility to comply
with state and agency policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. The
agency takes this responsibility seriously and failure to fulfill this responsibility is not
treated lightly. Employees who fail to comply with state or agency policy, administrative
rule, or state and federal law may face progressive discipline, up to and including
dismissal from state service.
Policy
1. A covered entity is a health plan, health care clearinghouse, or any health care
   provider which transmits protected health information (PHI) in electronic form in
   connection with transactions for which the U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services (DHHS) has adopted standards under the Health Insurance Portability and
   Accountability Act (HIPAA).
2. A business associate in general is a person or entity that, on behalf of the covered
   entity component of OHA or a business associate component of an ODHS program,
   creates, receives, maintains, or transmits PHI as detailed by the Health Insurance
   Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Health Information Technology for
   Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH).
3. Due to functions performed by certain ODHS programs on behalf of OHA, some
   programs are considered and defined as business associates of OHA.
4. ODHS and OHA contract administrators shall review contracts to ensure a business
   associate agreement is in place for relationships, when appropriate.
5. When OHA covered entity components or ODHS business associate components
   are engaged in a relationship with an external entity that involves creating,
   receiving, maintaining, or transmitting PHI:
   a. The agency program most directly involved in that relationship shall determine
      whether the external entity is a business associate.
   b. The agency program is responsible for communicating the relationship to ODHS
      and OHA contract administrators and ISPO.
6. Staff who are unclear about the activities or services performed by the agency that
   creates a business associate relationship as defined by HIPAA, shall contact ISPO.
7. Staff shall complete required privacy and security training and review of agency
   policies as follows:
   a. Staff shall complete all required training assigned by the Department of
      Administrative Services (DAS); and
   b. Partner and contractor staff shall complete all required privacy and security
      training within 30 days of accessing ODHS and OHA information.
8. Staff shall adhere to ODHS privacy and security policies as outlined by DAS and
   ISPO.
9. Examples of ODHS programs who have been identified as performing business
   associate functions include but are not limited to:
   a. Office of Developmental Disability Services (ODDS)
   b. Facilities
   c. Internal Audits
   d. Office of Payment Accuracy and Recovery (OPAR)
   e. Office of Program Integrity (OPI)
                                                                              Page |2
   f. Aging and People with Disabilities (APD)
   g. Office of Business Intelligence (OBI)
   h. Office of Contracts and Procurement (OC&P)
   i. Office of Legal and Client Relations
10. When any ODHS or external entity staff learns of a practice or pattern of activity
   that constitutes a data breach or violation of the business associate’s obligation
   under the HIPAA Privacy and Security rule, related Oregon Administrative Rules
   (OARs), the contract, or other agreement:
   a. ISPO and OC&P shall be notified.
   b. ISPO and OC&P shall consult on contract breaches, mitigation, and corrective
      action plans, up to and including terminating the business associate contract.

References
45 CFR 160 General Administrative Requirements
45 CFR 164 Security and Privacy
OAR 407-014-0050 Business Associate
OAR 943-014 Privacy and Confidentiality
OAR 943-014-0015 Covered Entity Status for Purposes of the HIPAA Privacy Rules


Contacts
Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO)
Phone: 503-945-6812 (Security)
        503-945-5780 (Privacy)
Fax: 503-947-5396
dhsinfo.security@odhsoha.oregon.gov
privacyoffice@odhsoha.oregon.gov

Policy History
Version 1 Established 7/22/2014
Reviewed 10/03/2016
Version 2 ODHS|OHA 100-013 established 11/07/2022

To request this policy in another format or language, contact the Publications
and Design Section at 503-378-3486, 711 for TTY, or email dhs-
oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov.

Keywords
Business associate, contract, covered entity, external entity, HIPAA, protected health
information, PHI
                                                                                Page |3
This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with
disabilities or in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To
request this document in another format or language, contact the Publications and
Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for TTY, or email dhs-
oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov.




                                                                                  Page |4
