                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                            POLICY
SECTION 6:         Patient Care                                             POLICY: 6.055

SUBJECT:           Medication Management

POINT PERSON:      Director of Pharmacy Services

APPROVED:          Sara Walker, MD                               DATE: OCTOBER 15, 2024

                   Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. The purpose of this policy is to outline the guidelines around medication
      prescribing, dispensing, and administering at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
   B. This policy applies to all staff who prescribe, handle, and administer medication
      at OSH.
II. POLICY
   A. The prescribing of medication for the treatment of medical and psychiatric
      disorders must be evidence-based and must adhere to contemporary standards
      of practice.
   B. All patients must be continually monitored by their practitioners and other
      members of the interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT) for the safety and
      appropriateness of medication regimens with respect to optimizing treatment
      goals.
   C. The following information about patients is accessible to all staff who participate
      in the management of the patient’s medications:
         1. Age;
         2. Assigned sex at birth;
         3. Diagnoses;
         4. Allergies and Hypersensitivities;
         5. Current medications;
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                              P AGE 2 OF 13

           6. Height and weight;
           7. Pregnancy and lactation information;
           8. Vitals; and
           9. Laboratory results.
  D. The following disciplines may initiate, change, or discontinue medication orders:
     physicians (i.e., M.D., D.O.), dentists (i.e., D.D.S., D.M.D.), nurse practitioners
     (i.e., NP, PMHNP), pharmacists (i.e., Pharm D. PhD, RPh, under Pharmacy and
     Therapeutics Committee-approved Clinical Pharmacy Agreements (CPAs), which
     includes Collaborative Drug Therapy Management (CDTM), with the OSH
     Medical and Allied Health Professional Staff (MAHPS)).
   E. Upon a patient’s admission, the admitting practitioner must generate the
      “Admission Medication Reconciliation” form in Avatar and complete it.
           1. Allergies and hypersensitivities must be reconciled or included prior to
              pharmacists processing any medication orders.
           2. Admission packets are available on the I:Drive to assist with medication
              reconciliation.
   F. The following requirements pertain to every medication order.
           1. Prior to prescribing a medication to a patient, the practitioner must:
               a. Obtain a comprehensive medication history with emphasis on past
                  responses to drug treatment and allergic or toxic reactions, use of
                  illegal substances, use of tobacco and alcohol, and use of over-the-
                  counter and nutritional supplements.
               b. Consider the patient’s mental and physical examinations and
                  laboratory findings.
               c. Explain the indication, potential side effects, and any other concerns of
                  the medication to the patient.
               d. Verify that informed consent for medication has been obtained as
                  indicated in Medical Department Protocol 1.001, “Informed Consent”.
           2. All medication orders must be submitted using the Medication Order form
              or Telephone Order form in Avatar.
               a. Exceptions include the following:
                      i.    Medication Reconciliation Orders printed from Avatar for
                            Admission, Transfer, Expiring, Discharge, and Leave orders.
Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                           P AGE 3 OF 13

                     ii. Complex medication order forms printed from the I:Drive for
                         sliding scale insulin, clozapine, long-acting injectable
                         antipsychotics, and smoking cessation.
           3. Practitioners must minimize the use of verbal and telephone orders as
              much as possible.
              a. Verbal orders must be used only in emergent situations. See OSH
                 policy 10.004, “Override Process for Medications in Emergency
                 Situations”.
              b. Telephone orders should be reserved for when the practitioner does
                 not have ready access to Avatar.
                     i.   Telephone orders can only be given to a pharmacist or a nurse.
               c. The Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee tracks and reviews
                  the use of telephone orders at OSH.
           4. Each medication order must contain the following elements:
              a. Patient name;
              b. Date and time order written;
               c. Ordering practitioner;
              d. Medication name (generic and trade name, if feasible, to decrease the
                 risk of Look-Alike Sound-Alike errors);
              e. Medication dose;
               f. Route of administration;
              g. Frequency of administration;
              h. Diagnosis, reason, indication, or conditions necessitating medication
                 use;
               i. Any special instructions, as applicable, such as parameters for
                  administration and not-to-exceed limits;
               j. Start date and time; and
               k. Duration of therapy or stop date and time.
               l. All paper orders such as order forms and medication reconciliation
                  orders require the ordering practitioner’s signature
           5. OSH practitioners should prescribe according to FDA-approved dosages
              but may prescribe medications above the FDA-approved dosage limits due
              to the complexity of OSH patient population.
Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                                P AGE 4 OF 13

               a. The “OSH Drug Upper and Lower Limit Guidelines” reference provides
                  dosage guidelines that may be outside of FDA-approved dosage limits
                  for select medications and can be found on the Pharmacy OWL Page.
               b. If a practitioner exceeds the dosage limits per these guidelines
                  justification for doing so must be included in a progress note.
           6. If first dose monitoring is required, the practitioner must enter a treatment
              order including what vitals to measure, what signs of adversity to look for,
              and at what frequency the patient should be monitored after the first dose
              is administered.
           7. Practitioners must write a progress note at the time the medication is first
              prescribed or the treatment initiated and whenever the order is reassessed
              or modified and include:
               a. An explanation of the intended purpose of the medication or treatment
                  with specific reference to the target symptoms these are designed to
                  alleviate.
               b. An assessment of the efficacy of the medication and a justification or
                  description of the experienced side effects in the case of order
                  reassessment or modifications.
           8. Prior to order transcription and verification, pharmacists must contact the
              ordering practitioner if an order is incomplete, illegible, or unclear or if they
              have questions about an order.
  G. Abbreviations with Medication Orders
           1. The use of abbreviations is error-prone and should be limited as much as
              possible.
           2. The following abbreviations are The Joint Commission’s official “Do Not
              Use” List and are not permitted at OSH.
              Do Not Use                 Potential Problem           Use Instead
              U, u (unit)                Mistaken for "0" (zero), Write "unit"
                                         the number "4" (four)
                                         or "cc"
              IU (International Unit)    Mistaken for IV             Write "International
                                         (intravenous) or the        Unit"
                                         number 10 (ten)
              Q.D., QD, q.d., qd         Mistaken for each           Write "daily"
              (daily)                    other
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                              P AGE 5 OF 13

              Q.O.D., QOD, q.o.d,       Period after the Q         Write "every other
              qod (every other day)     mistaken for "I" and       day"
                                        the "O" mistaken for "I
              Trailing zero (X.0 mg)    Decimal point is           Write “X mg”
              Lack of leading zero      missed                     Write “0.X mg”
              (.X mg)
              MS                        Can mean morphine          Write "morphine
                                        sulfate or magnesium       sulfate"
              MSO4 and MgSO4
                                        sulfate
                                                                   Write "magnesium
                                        Confused for one           sulfate"
                                        another


           3. The Institute of Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) has a List of Error-Prone
              Abbreviations, Symbols, and Dose Designations that should be avoided in
              all medication orders. The list can be found on the Pharmacy OWL Page.
  H. PRN Orders
           1. All PRN orders must:
               a. Clearly specify the dosing interval (i.e. ordered as Q number of hours
                  PRN instead of two times per day PRN, three times per day PRN,
                  etc.).
                      i.   Once daily PRN, QHS PRN, AC PRN, and PC PRN are
                           acceptable to use.
               b. Include not-to-exceed (NTE) parameters for number of doses per day if
                  less than what is allowed per the frequency (e.g. order for Q4H PRN
                  with NTE 2 doses per day).
               c. Include instructions, when necessary, to clearly specify the
                  circumstances under which the nurse administers one order versus the
                  other order, such as:
                      i.   may use acetaminophen together with ibuprofen;
                      ii. use acetaminophen first, and, if ineffective after 1 hour, may use
                          ibuprofen.
           2. All PRN orders must not:
               a. Create therapeutic duplication with the order’s indication (e.g. sleep
                  and insomnia).
               b. Use overlapping indications (e.g. anxiety and moderate anxiety).
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                                P AGE 6 OF 13

           3. At OSH, midnight to midnight constitutes one day (e.g. the dosing interval
              for a once daily PRN order is midnight to midnight not a rolling 24 hours).
  I. Hold Orders
           1. Orders to hold PRN medications are not permitted. Such orders need to be
              discontinued with new orders submitted to reinitiate PRNs, as warranted.
           2. If the duration to hold scheduled medications is less than 24 hours, nurses
              must document any scheduled doses as held on the eMAR at the time the
              order is submitted.
           3. If the duration to hold scheduled medications is more than 24 hours,
              pharmacists will discontinue the scheduled medication orders. The
              practitioner must submit new orders to reinitiate the medications, as
              warranted.
  J. Taper and Titration Orders
           1. In addition to all elements of a medication order, taper and titration orders
              must also include the duration for each incremental dose.
           2. Taper and titration orders are limited to a maximum duration of 14 days.
               a. New orders are required every 14 days for the duration of the taper or
                  titration.
                      i.   For titrations, the last order will be entered as ongoing until new
                           orders are written.
               b. The 14-day maximum duration does not apply to long-acting
                  injectables.
           3. All taper and titration orders dosed more than one time per day, such as
              twice daily, will be entered to start the next day (e.g. titrating orders for
              twice daily submitted at noon today will start tomorrow morning to avoid
              splitting days).
               a. If a different dose is required on the day the practitioner writes new
                  taper or titration orders, a one-time order is required for the different
                  dose.
  K. Automatic Durations
           1. OSH uses default durations for select medications or medication classes.
              Orders submitted beyond these durations will be shortened and entered
              using the following default durations:
              Medication or Class                      Default Duration
              All non-scheduled medications            365 days
              unless otherwise indicated below
              Schedule 3-5 Controlled                  180 days
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                              P AGE 7 OF 13

              Substances
              Vaccines                               120 days
              Schedule 2 Controlled Substances       30 days
              Loperamide                             3 days
              Oxymetazoline Nasal Spray (Afrin)      3 days


  L. Discontinuing and Changing Orders
           1. All medication order changes require discontinuation of previous orders
              and initiation of new orders.
           2. When changing orders that are linked (e.g. intramuscular backups (IMBUs)
              or medications to be co-administered):
               a. Discontinuation of a medication that has an IMBU will result in the
                  pharmacist also discontinuing the IMBU order.
               b. Discontinuation of a medication that has instructions to give with other
                  medications will result in the pharmacist discontinuing each order.
               c. The practitioner should ensure any linked orders have the exact same
                  stop date/duration.
           3. Customized features of an order will not automatically carry over with order
              changes (e.g. special instructions, crush, customized administration times,
              etc.). It is the practitioner’s responsibility to specify these features in the
              new order.
  M. Medication Administration
           1. OSH uses standard medication administration times as follows:
               a.    Daily, Q day, or once every day, – 0800;
               b.    Twice a day, “BID” – 0800, 2000;
               c.    Three times a day, “TID” – 0800, 1600, 2000;
               d.    Four times a day, “QID” – 0800, 1200, 1600, 2000;
               e.    Five times a day, “5XD” – 0800, 1200, 1600, 2000, 2330;
               f.    Once a day at bedtime, “QHS” – 2000;
               g.    With meals – 0800, 1200, 1700;
               h.    Before meals – 0700, 1100, 1600; and
                i.   After meals – 0900, 1300, 1800.
           2. Medications must be administered according to the order, but they may be
              administered between one hour before and one hour after the scheduled
              administration time.
  N. Orders not permitted at OSH:
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                               P AGE 8 OF 13

           1. contingent orders (e.g. “if TSH lab comes back greater than X mg/L, then
              start levothyroxine Y mcg”);
           2. standing orders;
           3. blanket orders (e.g. “change all AM medication administration times to
              0600,” “add crush to all crushable meds,” “continue previous order,” or
              “discharge on current orders”);
           4. range orders for either frequency or dose (e.g. “one tablet every 4-6 hours
              PRN,” “one or two tablets every 6 hours PRN”);
           5. scheduled medications with extended administration windows (e.g., “may
              take AM clozapine between 0700 and 1200”); or
           6. methadone for opioid use disorder (OUD) without ongoing involvement of a
              SAMHSA-certified opioid treatment program.
  O. Medications not permitted at OSH:
           1. medications or supplements not supplied by OSH Pharmacy (e.g. OTC
              products obtained by the unit on a SPOTS card).
           2. patient’s own medications or supplements, including herbal products;
           3. compounded medications;
           4. medication samples;
           5. investigational medications; or
           6. radiopharmaceuticals;
           7. Exceptional circumstances will require approval for use of outside
              medications, such as methadone, by Pharmacy Management.
  P. Discharge Medication Orders
           1. When feasible, at least 48 hours prior to a patient’s discharge, the
              Attending Practitioner must:
               a. Complete the “Discharge Medication Reconciliation Orders” form from
                  Avatar and scan it to the Pharmacy; these are the prescriptions that
                  will be dispensed from the OSH Pharmacy and must clearly specify
                  durations and quantities to dispense.
               b. Complete hard copy prescriptions and deliver to the Pharmacy; these
                  prescriptions are for the patient to fill post-discharge and will be sent in
                  the discharge packet. Below are the days’ supply limits based on the
                  patient’s discharge location.
                          Patient Discharge     # Days’ Supply    # Days’ Supply
                          Location              Dispensed via the for Written
                                                Discharge
Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                            P AGE 9 OF 13

                                              Medication            Prescriptions
                                              Reconciliation
                         Lane and Jackson     5 days                14 days
                         County Jails
                         All Other Oregon     3 days                14 days
                         County Jails
                         Community         14 days                  30 days
                         Restoration
                         (secure or non-
                         secure group
                         home, independent
                         living)


           2. Discharge medication transitions-of-care considerations:
               a. Many sites, including county jails, will not administer a variety of
                  medications such as PRN benzodiazepines, valproic acid syrup and
                  divalproex sprinkles, or IMBUs. Practitioners are encouraged to
                  coordinate with pharmacists to optimize patient medication regimens to
                  reflect what will be supported at their discharge location.
               b. Over the counter (OTC) medications are readily available at most
                  discharge locations and are not routinely covered by insurance.
                  Practitioners should consider indicating the continuation of these
                  medications on the Discharge Medication Reconciliation form, as
                  warranted, but not indicate to dispense from the OSH Pharmacy nor
                  write outpatient prescriptions.
               c. Coordination of long-acting injectables administration should occur
                  prior to discharge. The prior administration date and next dose due
                  date should be included on the Discharge Medication Reconciliation
                  form. OSH Pharmacy does not dispense injectable medications at
                  discharge.
               d. Information regarding county jail formularies and the use of clozapine
                  and benzodiazepines can be found on the Pharmacy OWL Page.
               e. Practitioners should contact the pharmacy to discuss an exception to
                  any of the above if circumstances may compromise patient care or
                  access to medications.
           3. OSH Pharmacy cannot provide refills for any outpatient prescriptions.
  Q. Antibiotic Stewardship
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                            P AGE 10 OF 13

           1. OSH’s Antibiotic Stewardship Subcommittee monitors all systemic
              antibiotic orders and is responsible for the creation and review of evidence-
              based, OSH-specific treatment algorithms.
           2. OSH practitioners should adhere to these algorithms when ordering
              systemic antibiotics. All algorithms can be found on the Pharmacy OWL
              Page.
           3. For each systemic antibiotic order, pharmacists must:
               a. prospectively review the order for alignment with algorithms and overall
                  appropriateness prior to order transcription and verification.
               b. Monitor therapy at 24 hours, 72 hours, and completion and document
                  this monitoring.
  R. Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) Reporting
           1. Any staff directly involved in medication order submission, transcription,
              verification, dispensing, or administration must report should report all
              suspected or confirmed ADRs via the “Oregon State Hospital Suspected
              Adverse Drug Event Report” form found at
              I:\PUBLICATIONS\PHARMACY.
               a. Staff must also report ADRs involving vaccines to the Vaccine Adverse
                  Event Reporting system (VAERS).
               b. Staff may also report serious drug or device ADRs to FDA Med Watch.
           2. ADRs can be identified by:
               a. Patient monitoring, including:
                      i.   Direct observation of, or communication with, patients; and
                      ii. Patient chart reviews.
               b. Communication with other members of the healthcare team.
               c. Practitioner orders that indicate an ADR occurred, such as:
                      i.   Sudden discontinuation or rapid dose decrease of medications
                           with high ADR potential; and
                      ii. New orders related to the treatment of potential ADRs (e.g.
                          diphenhydramine, benztropine, ondansetron).
           3. When ADRs are identified, they must:
               a. be addressed appropriately to weigh the risk vs. benefit of the
                  medication therapy; and
               b. be reported to appropriate members of the IDT and the patient and/or
                  guardian, as warranted.
Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                           P AGE 11 OF 13

   S. Medication Error Reporting
           1. OSH Medication Variance Subcommittee reviews all reported medication
              errors and suggests improvements to medication management systems
              and processes with the goal of improving patient safety.
           2. Any staff directly involved in medication order submission, transcription,
              verification, dispensing, or administration must report actual and potential
              medication errors using the “Oregon State Hospital Medication Variance
              Report”, which may be accessed through an icon available on all computer
              desktops. It can also be found at I:\PUBLICATIONS\RISK
              MANAGEMENT\Medication Variance Report.
           3. Pharmacy and nursing staff are to follow direction as indicated in Pharmacy
              Protocol 13.003, “Medication Error Reporting and Follow-up” and Nursing
              Protocol 2.080, “Medication Errors”, respectively.
   T. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
      and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
      (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
      relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
      this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
   U. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
“Adverse Drug Reaction” is an appreciably harmful or unpleasant reaction, resulting
from an intervention related to the use of a medicinal product, which predicts hazard
from future administration and warrants prevention or specific treatment, or alteration of
the dosage regimen, or withdrawal of the product.
“Clinical Pharmacy Agreement”, as defined by the Oregon Board of Pharmacy, means
an agreement between a Pharmacist or pharmacy and a health care organization, or a
physician as defined in ORS 677.010 or a naturopathic physician as defined in ORS
685.010 that permits the Pharmacist to engage in the practice of clinical pharmacy for
the benefit of the patients of the health care organization, or physician or naturopathic
physician.
"Collaborative Drug Therapy Management", as defined by the Oregon Board of
Pharmacy, means the participation by a Pharmacist in the management of drug therapy
pursuant to a written protocol that includes information specific to the dosage,
frequency, duration, and route of administration of the drug, authorized by a practitioner
and initiated upon a prescription order for an individual patient and:
        (a) Is agreed to by one Pharmacist and one practitioner; or
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.055
             Medication Management
Date:        October 15, 2024                                              P AGE 12 OF 13

        (b) Is agreed to by one or more Pharmacists at a single pharmacy registered by
        the board and one or more practitioners in a single organized medical group,
        such as a hospital medical staff, clinic, or group practice, including but not limited
        to organized medical groups using a pharmacy and therapeutics committee.
“First dose monitoring” means assessing the patient per practitioner’s order after the
first dose is administered.
“Medication error” per the National Coordinating Council of Medication Error Reporting
and Prevention (NCC MERP) means, “any preventable event that may cause or lead to
inappropriate medication use or patient harm while the medication is in the control of the
health care professional, patient, or consumer. Such events may be related to
professional practice, health care products, procedures, and systems, including
prescribing, order communication, product labeling, packaging, and nomenclature,
compounding, dispensing, distribution, administration, education, monitoring, and use.”
A medication error may also be referred to as a “medication variance”.
“Medications” mean chemical compounds that may be administered to humans in order
to aid in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of disease or other abnormal condition,
as well as relieve pain or suffering.
“Polypharmacy” means two or more medications within the same class.
“Range order” is a medication order with a range of either dose or frequency to allow for
flexibility in patient symptom management.
“Standing order” means an order that becomes active without the use of a Pharmacy
and Therapeutics Committee-approved protocol or without prior review of ordering
practitioner.
“Titration orders” are orders in which a dose is either progressively increased or
decreased by established increments in response to a patient’s status as determined by
assessment. At OSH, a “taper” or “wean” order is considered equivalent to a titration
order.
“Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors, and
other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.035 Medication Reconciliation
   10.004 Override Process for Medications in Emergency Situations
   Oregon State Hospital Medical Department Protocol 1.001 Informed consent
   Oregon State Hospital Nursing Department Protocol 2.080 Medication Errors
Subject:                                                             Policy Number: 6.055
           Medication Management
Date:      October 15, 2024                                                    P AGE 13 OF 13

  Oregon State Hospital Pharmacy Department Protocol 13.003 Medication Error
  Reporting and Follow-up

V. REFERENCES
  42 CFR § 482.23(c).

  Do not use list fact sheet. The Joint Commission. (n.d.).
  https://www.jointcommission.org/resources/news-and-multimedia/fact-sheets/facts-about-do-
  not-use-list/

  Edwards IR, Aronson JK. Adverse drug reactions: definitions, diagnosis, and management.
  Lancet. 2000 Oct 7;356(9237):1255-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02799-9. PMID: 11072960.
  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
      for behavioral health and human services, CTS.04.01.01 – CTS.04.01.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL:
      Author.

  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
      for hospitals, MM.01.01.01. – MM.06.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

  Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 309-114-010 – 309-114-015.
