                 OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                              POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:    Oregon State Hospital Information Technology          POLICY : 1.005
                 (IT) Purchase Process

POINT PERSON:    Director of Technology Services

APPROVED:        Superintendent                                DATE: APRIL 21, 2023

SELECT ONE:                                         Minor/technical revision of
                   New policy attachment
                                                    existing policy attachment
                   Reaffirmation of existing        Major revision of existing
                   policy attachment                policy attachment


 RESPONSIBLE                                   PROCEDURES
PERSON/GROUP
Oregon State     1. Identify an IT asset need.
Hospital (OSH)   2. Check the OIS Our Work Link (OWL) page for standard or
Requestor           commonly ordered items and review the OSH BuyTech
                    frequently asked question document.
                 3. Determine if the item is for a patient care area.
                    a. If the item is for a patient care area, staff must complete the
                        OSH Purchase Safety Checklist form to complete an initial
                        assessment of the item, which includes but is not limited to:
                        i. Reviewing room risk levels per OSH policy 8.009, “OSH
                             Safety Program.”
                        ii. Viewing the log of completed Product Risk
                             Assessments (PRA) maintained by the OSH Safety
                             department.
                        iii. Completing a PRA request per Procedures B of OSH
                             policy 4.018, “OSH Purchase and Maintenance:
                             Supplies, Assets, and Equipment,” for items that do not
                             have a PRA. Items that may be similar to an item with a
                             completed PRA require a PRA of their own.
                        iv. Conferring with Salem or Junction City Facilities
                             departments about installing product in OSH buildings.
                 4. When the item has a completed PRA, or if a PRA is not
                    required (i.e., product used in non-patient care area only), staff
                    must submit a product order to OSH Warehouse using the
                    hospital’s electronic internal product ordering system if the item
                    is available through the OSH Warehouse.
PROCEDURES A: Oregon State Hospital Information               POLICY NUMBER : 1.005
              Technology (IT) Purchase Process
DATE:           April 21, 2023                                            Page 2 of 4

                 5. If the item is not available through the OSH Warehouse, email
                     Office of Information Services (OIS) Information Technology
                     Asset Management (ITAM) to request a price quote and item
                     availability.
                     NOTE: Quotes received from ITAM are valid for 30 days after
                     they are issued. Quotes that have expired (on day 31 and
                     beyond) require a new quote. Each new IT asset request
                     requires a new quote, even if staff are newly requesting a
                     previously quoted item within the 30-day timeframe.
                 6. If the product is not available, start the process again with a
                     new item or find an alternate solution.
                 7. If the product is available, complete the IT Purchase
                     Request/Acquisition (MSC 0075) form maintained by Shared
                     Services, including clear and accurate billing codes, order
                     type, requested hardware or software, and business need.
                     a. Staff may contact OSH Buy Tech for assistance and
                         instructions for completing the MSC 0075 form.
                     b. Contact OSH Business Analyst office for assistance with
                         department fund codes (agency, index, PCA).
                     c. Complete the address section for the appropriate OSH
                         campus address where the item should be delivered.
                     d. The business need for the request must clearly justify why
                         a request should be approved. For example, business need
                         statements may identify an issue and state how the request
                         solves the issue. Business need statements also may list
                         alternate solutions and reasons for rejecting the alternate
                         solution. Forms without a business need or without an
                         adequate business need may be rejected. Contact OSH
                         Technology Services for assistance with business need
                         statements.
                 8. Exception Process Only: If the request is related to an ADA
                     accommodation, email the ITAM quote and completed MSC
                     0075 form to Human Resources for approval.
                 9. Email the ITAM quote, completed MSC 0075 form, and Human
                     Resources approval (if applicable) to OSH BuyTech. Allow up
                     to 5 business days for a reply from the OSH BuyTech Team.
                 10. Cooperate with OSH BuyTech to correct any missing
                     information or form errors if the request is returned. If staff do
                     not reply to correct the missing information or error within 8
                     business days, the purchase request may be closed.
PROCEDURES A: Oregon State Hospital Information             POLICY NUMBER : 1.005
              Technology (IT) Purchase Process
DATE:           April 21, 2023                                          Page 3 of 4

                 11. If OSH BuyTech determines the item is not compatible, start
                     the request process again with a new item or find an alternate
                     solution.
                 12. If the purchase is approved by OSH BuyTech, the Approving
                     Manager, Human Resources (for ADA accommodation
                     exception requests only), and the Chief Financial Officer/Chief
                     Operating Officer (CFO/COO) (for exception requests only),
                     email OIS ITAM with:
                     a. The completed MSC 0075 form,
                     b. OIS ITAM-provided quote,
                     c. OSH BuyTech approval,
                     d. Approving Manager approval,
                     e. Human Resources approval (if applicable), and
                     f. CFO/COO approval (if applicable).
                     g. OIS ITAM shall respond with a tracker number or further
                          instructions if an order cannot be accepted as submitted.
                          OSH Requestor must follow up within 5 business days or
                          the purchase request may be closed.
                          i. Once submitted by OSH, OIS ITAM processes
                              equipment exception requests internally per Shared
                              Services policy ODHS/OHA 070-007-01.
                          ii. Note that OSH approvals do not assure that IT asset
                              items will be purchased and provided as requested. OIS
                              ITAM may reject requests that have been approved
                              internally by OSH.
                     h. Use the ITAM-provided tracker number for any follow-up on
                          the IT purchase.
OSH BuyTech      1. Review requests for completeness. Forms that are missing
                    information or that are not accompanied by an appropriate
                    quote from ITAM will be sent back to the OSH Requestor. If a
                    request is left open for more than 8 business days from OSH
                    BuyTech requesting additional information, the purchase
                    request may be closed and no further action taken.
                 2. Review requests for compatibility.
                    a. Requests that are not compatible will be sent back to the
                        OSH Requestor.
                    b. ADA requests that are not compatible will be sent back to
                        the OSH Requestor and Human Resources. Work with the
                        OSH Requestor and Human Resources to determine an
PROCEDURES A: Oregon State Hospital Information                POLICY NUMBER : 1.005
              Technology (IT) Purchase Process
DATE:             April 21, 2023                                           Page 4 of 4

                          alternate solution that meets the OSH Requestor’s ADA
                          accommodation needs.
                  3. If the request is compatible, notify the OSH Requestor and
                     OSH Approving Manager as listed on the MSC 0075 form of
                     approval via email. Attach the MSC 0075 form to the approval
                     email.
OSH Approving     1. Review MSC 0075 form for accuracy and completeness.
Manager              Correct any errors in coding, order type, hardware or software
                     or business need. Incomplete, inaccurate, or vague forms may
                     be rejected by ITAM.
                  2. Forward all exception requests to the CFO/COO for review and
                     approval.
                  3. If the purchase is not approved, notify the OSH Requestor of
                     the declination with the reason the purchase was rejected.
                     Copy OSH BuyTech in the notification email for tracking
                     purposes.
                  4. If the purchase is approved, email an approval message to the
                     OSH Requestor.
                  5. Update the Workstation Tracker Database, any staff
                     equipment tracking forms (MSC 0050), and/or Flexible Work
                     Solution agreements per OSH policy 5.031, “Flexible Work
                     Solutions,” as appropriate as purchases are completed and
                     delivered.
CFO/COO           1. Review exception requests.
                  2. Send approval or denial to the Approving Manager.
OIS Information   1. Review requests for completeness.
Technology        2. Respond to OSH Requestor, the approving manager, and
Asset                OSH BuyTech (as appropriate) with an order tracker number
Management           or additional information if the order cannot be completed as
(ITAM)               submitted.
                  3. If the request is appropriate, complete purchase per OIS ITAM
                     IT purchase processes.
                  4. Notify OIS Desktop Support Team if support is required as part
                     of order fulfillment.
OIS Desktop       1. If support is required as part of ITAM order fulfillment, contact
Support Team         the OSH Requestor or end user as listed on the MSC 0075
                     form to complete delivery/setup.
