                          OFFICE OF INFORMATION SERVICES
                            Information Security and Privacy
                                         Office


Operational Policy

Policy title:     Enforcement of Individual Privacy Violations

Policy
                   ODHS|OHA 100-012
number:

                                               Last
Original date:     7/22/2014 OHA only                         09/12/2022 (Joint)
                                               update:
                   Kris Kautz, Deputy Director OHA
Approved:
                   Don Erickson, Chief Administrative Officer ODHS

Purpose
This policy is one of a series that outlines Oregon Department of Human Services
(ODHS) and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) expectations for the necessary collection,
use, and disclosure of protected information about individuals in order to provide
services and benefits while maintaining reasonable safeguards to ensure the privacy of
protected information.

ODHS|OHA staff are responsible for reading all ODHS|OHA privacy policies to be sure
they understand how these policies work together to protect individual privacy.

Description
This policy describes ODHS|OHA enforcement and staff responsibilities related to
knowing, understanding, and complying with state and federal privacy statutes and
rules, and ODHS|OHA policies.

Applicability
This policy applies to all ODHS|OHA staff including employees, volunteers, interns,
and contractors. This definition of staff aligns with the HIPAA definition of workforce.

As keepers of the public trust, staff have a responsibility to comply with state and
agency policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. The agency takes this
responsibility seriously and failure to fulfill this responsibility is not treated lightly.
Individuals who fail to comply with state or agency policy, administrative rule, or state

                                         Page 1 of 3
and federal law may face progressive discipline, up to and including dismissal from
state service.

Policy
1. ODHS|OHA staff shall guard against unauthorized use or disclosure of protected
   information through ongoing education, awareness, training, and regular review of
   agency policies.
   a. Staff who are uncertain about whether a use or disclosure is allowed shall
      consult with a supervisor.
   b. The Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO) is a resource for any
      ODHS|OHA staff who cannot resolve a disclosure question.
   c. The Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Local Agency Security Officer is
      a resource for any ODHS|OHA staff who cannot resolve a disclosure question
      regarding CJI.
2. ODHS|OHA programs shall ensure staff are trained on their program specific
   information privacy and security responsibilities related to protected information.
   Protected information includes, but is not limited to, personally identifiable
   information (PII), protected health information (PHI), federal tax information (FTI),
   Criminal Justice Information (CJI), and Social Security Administration (SSA)
   information.
3. ODHS|OHA partners required to protect information under the terms of their
   agreements and contracts may have their agreements terminated for failure to
   comply.
4. Unintentional and non-malicious actions may not be subject to discipline based on
   determinations made in collaboration with ISPO and Human Resources.

References
45 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 160 General Administrative Requirements
45 CFR 164 Security and Privacy
Oregon Administrative Rules (OARs) 943-014-0015 Covered Entity Status for
Purposes of the HIPAA Privacy Rules
Department of Administrative Services (DAS) Master Collective Bargaining Agreement

Policies
ODHS|OHA 090-004 Information Security and Privacy Awareness and Training Policy
ODHS|OHA 100-001 Privacy Policy

Contact
Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO)
Phone: 503-945-5780 (Privacy)
                                       Page 2 of 3
Email: privacyoffice@odhsoha.oregon.gov

U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights
Medical Privacy, Complaint Division
200 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20201
Toll free Phone: 877-696-6775
Phone: 866-627-7748
TTY: 886-788-4989
Email: OCRComplaint@hhs.gov

Policy history
Version 1 OHA 100-012 established 07/22/2014
Version 1 ODHS|OHA 100-012 established 09/12/2022

Keywords
Collective Bargaining Agreement, discipline, enforce, enforcement, guard, non-
malicious, unauthorized, unintentional, violate


This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with
disabilities or in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To
request this document in another format or language, contact the Publications and
Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for TTY, or email dhs-
oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov.




                                        Page 3 of 3
