                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 8:        Safety, Security, Emergency                                POLICY: 8.040
                  Management

SUBJECT:          Acute Milieu Emergency

POINT PERSON:     Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                     DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                              Minor/technical revision of
                                                          existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy        Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will strive to provide a safe milieu for patients, staff,
      and others. In the event of imminent danger of significant harm to a group of
      patients and staff (e.g., multiple homicidal threats, threats of hostage situations,
      threats of rioting), “Acute Milieu Emergency (AME) status” may be instituted to
      facilitate resources necessary to resolve the situation and return the milieu to a
      safe, therapeutic environment. This policy and attached procedures establish
      parameters and requirements concerning instituting an AME.
   B. This policy applies to all staff and patients.

II. POLICY
   A. High-acuity situations regularly encountered during what could be considered a
      normal course of a high-acuity milieu (e.g., several patients fighting or multiple
      discrete events of imminent danger of harm) do not meet criteria for
      implementing this policy.
   B. If a situation escalates to the point of considering AME status, the OSH Incident
      Command System (ICS) may be initiated in accordance with the OSH
      Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) to help manage the situation and necessary
      resources.
   C. The Superintendent may request additional notifications and consultations
      according to situational needs.
   D. A patient maintains all rights as indicated in 42 Code of Federal Regulations §
      482.13 and applicable Oregon Revised Statutes, Oregon Administrative Rules,
 Subject:                                                              Policy Number: 8.040
               Acute Milieu Emergency
 Date:
               July 25, 2024                                                   P AGE 2 OF 3

         and OSH policies, except as limited by application of this policy. Any limitation to
         a patient’s rights must be clinically justified, explained to the patient, and
         documented in the patient’s medical record.
   E. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   F. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Acute milieu emergency (AME) status” is a designation indicating a critical large-
      scale emergency in a patient-care area where the behavior or threatened
      behavior of multiple people indicates imminent danger of significant harm for a
      group of people in the area.
   B. “Imminent danger of harm” in this policy means a substantial likelihood of
      immediate physical harm to the patient or others, an immediate and substantial
      likelihood of significant property damage, or an immediate and serious disruption
      of the activities of other patients in the area.
         1. A situation in which a patient is shouting or arguing with staff does not on its
            own constitute immediate danger of harm.
   C. “Incident Command System (ICS)” is an organizational management system
      which integrates facilities, equipment, personnel, procedures, and
      communications to manage large-scale or high-risk emergency incidents.
   D. “Patient-care area” for the purpose of this policy means any portion of the facility
      wherein a patient is intended to be examined or treated.
   E. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A         Acute Milieu Emergency Procedures

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.003 Seclusion and Restraint
   6.010 Enhanced Supervision
   7.005 Patient Rights
 Subject:                                                                 Policy Number: 8.040
             Acute Milieu Emergency
 Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                        P AGE 3 OF 3

   7.008 Patient Abuse or Mistreatment Allegation Reporting
   8.014 Room, Unit, and Treatment Mall Searches
   8.019 Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts and Contraband
   8.041 Patient Personal Searches

VI. REFERENCES
   42 CFR § 482.13.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, EM.09.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, EM.10.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 426.385.
