                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                            POLICY
SECTION 6:         Patient Care                                             POLICY: 6.062

SUBJECT:           Epinephrine Outside the Secure
                   Perimeter

POINT PERSON:      Chief of Medicine

APPROVED:          Dr. Sara Walker                                   DATE: APRIL 23, 2024

                   Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
A. Purpose Statement: Oregon State Hospital is committed to safely providing
   epinephrine auto-injector pens (epinephrine) for emergent situations to a patient
   who has a known hymenoptera venom allergy (e.g., bee or wasp venom) or another
   serious allergy with the potential to cause anaphylaxis. Epinephrine for a patient
   may only be dispensed, carried, and used as directed by this policy for situations
   while they are outside the secure perimeter.
B. This policy applies to staff to staff and patients

POLICY
A. Whenever a Staff, or patient agrees to carry and administer epinephrine when
   needed outside the secure perimeter, the person accepts full responsibility for
   carrying and administering it in accordance with the provisions of this policy.
B. A patient may not carry or administer epinephrine to another patient.
C. Epinephrine may only be dispensed to a staff or patient if:
         1. The physician/nurse practitioner (NP) has assessed the situation and, if
            approved,
         2. Has written an order approving the staff or patient to carry and administer
            epinephrine when needed.
D. Before a staff may carry and administer epinephrine while outside the secure
   perimeter, they must successfully pass the required competency requirements.
   Only licensed nursing staff, physicians, or NPs may administer epinephrine while
   outside of the secure perimeter.
Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 6.062
             Epinephrine Outside the Secure Perimeter
Date:
             April 23, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 4

        1. Staff listed in Attachment A must complete applicable epinephrine
           medication administration competency on hire.
E. Before a patient may carry and administer epinephrine while outside the secure
   perimeter, they must be assessed to be capable of safely administering
   epinephrine. Such education must be documented.
        1. A registered nurse (RN) must educate the patient who is allowed to carry or
           administer epinephrine before giving epinephrine to them.
                a. The RN must re-assess their capability to administer epinephrine
                  before giving epinephrine to them for subsequent passes or outings. If
                  needed, the RN must provide additional education and deem they are
                  capable of safely administering epinephrine.
                b. At each reassessment, per Nursing Services protocol the RN must
                  document whether the person is capable of safely administering
                  epinephrine and whether education was needed or provided.
        2. The RN must educate the patient as follows:
                a. Initially and at least annually thereafter, the RN must educate the
                  patient in epinephrine self-administration.
                b. In addition, six months after each training the RN must re-assess
                  whether the patient is capable of safely administering epinephrine and
                  provide education if needed.
                c. The RN must document all education results on the appropriate
                  medical record form.
F. At minimum, patient education about epinephrine must include:
        1. Medication name, type, and reason for use;
        2. how to administer medication, including process, time, frequency, route, and
           dose;
        3. Anticipated actions and potential side effects of the medication administered;
        4. Monitoring the effects of the medication;
        5. Other special instructions, including instructions that if epinephrine has been
           administered to a patient, the person must call 911, notify the patient’s unit
           RN, and call OSH reception; and
        6. Demonstration that the staff or patient is capable of safely administering
           epinephrine.
G. If the RN does not believe the patient is able to carry or administer epinephrine and
   a licensed nurse or medical staff is not available to accompany the patient, the RN
   may cancel the outing.
H. An epinephrine pen must be secured at all times.
Subject:                                                                   Policy Number: 6.062
               Epinephrine Outside the Secure Perimeter
Date:
               April 23, 2024                                                         P AGE 3 OF 4

         1. The medication must be dispensed to the automated dispensing cabinet
            (ADC) according to Pharmacy processes.
         2. Staff may not retrieve epinephrine from an emergency kit or the ADC’s
            emergency supply to send with a patient on an outing or pass.
         3. The staff or patient allowed by this policy to carry or administer epinephrine
            must keep it on their person at all times in its sealed security bag until
            needed for the patient or until returned to the ADC.
I.   If epinephrine is administered the staff or patient must report the administration to the
     RN.
J. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
   and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS),
   Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant
   accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy
   unless this policy is more restrictive.
K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
   may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

PROCEDURES
     Procedures A       Epinephrine Screening, Education and Use

ATTACHMENTS
     Attachment A       Epinephrine Training List

RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
     OSH Policy 9.002 Training for Staff

REFERENCES
     42 Code of Federal Regulations § 482.23(c)(6).
     42 Code of Federal Regulations § 482.25.
     Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
     for behavioral healthcare, MM 06.01.03. EPs 1-7. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
     Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
     for hospitals, MM 06.01.03. EPs 1-7. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
     Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
     for hospitals, MM 06.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
     Oregon Administrative Rule § 309-035-0215.
     Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 851-048-0010 – 851-048-0060.
     Oregon Revised Statute § 678.036.
Subject:                                               Policy Number: 6.062
            Epinephrine Outside the Secure Perimeter
Date:
            April 23, 2024                                     P AGE 4 OF 4

  Oregon Revised Statute § 678.150.
