                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 5:        Fiscal                                                     POLICY: 4.011

SUBJECT:          Donations, Contributions,
                  Charitable Fundraising

POINT PERSON:     Director of Volunteer Services

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                     DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                              Minor/technical revision of
                                                          existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy        Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will accept donations and contributions and will
      facilitate charitable fundraising events for the benefit of patients or designated
      non-profit organizations in accordance with state rules and policy and not
      otherwise prohibited by this or another policy.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. The Volunteer Services Director or designee will manage donations,
      contributions, and charitable fundraising events in accordance with established
      processes, policies, and rules.
   B. The Volunteer Services Donations Program may accept ongoing or one-time
      donations or contributions, including cash, products, goods and services, for
      general patient benefit. All donations given to OSH or OSH patients must be
      approved, accepted, screened, processed, stored, or distributed by the Volunteer
      Services Donations Program.
      1. Donated items will be assessed and must be determined to be safe and
         usable at OSH before being accepted by the Volunteer Services Donations
         Program.
      2. If a patient’s family member or friend requests a specific donation be directed
         to the patient’s unit, the patient’s interdisciplinary treatment team must
         approve the donation before it may be accepted.
Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 4.011
              Donations, Contributions, Charitable Fundraising
Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 5

        3. The Volunteer Services Director or designee will report donations or
           contributions with restrictions or special requirements to the Superintendent.
  C. Staff must contact the Volunteer Services department to process donations and
     contributions.
        1. Staff may not donate products, goods, services, including consumable foods,
           directly to a patient, unit, program, or department.
        2. Oregon State Hospital or staff may not request or accept any donation from a
           current patient, including any of a patient’s personal property, consumable
           goods, or items such as crafts or artwork.
        3. Staff may not request a donation or contribution from an individual donor,
           business, organization, club or other entity unless the request is approved
           and coordinated through Volunteer Services according to established rules.
        4. If a staff member, unit, or department other than Volunteer Services receives
           a donation or contribution outside the process in this policy, the area’s
           supervisor must contact the Volunteer Services Director or designee for
           direction on how to handle the donation or contribution.
  D. The Volunteer Services Director or designee may donate unusable donations to
     other charitable or non-profit organizations as necessary.
        1. The Volunteer Services Director or designee may dispose of donations
           deemed inappropriate, broken, damaged, or outdated.
        2. At the discretion of the Volunteer Services Director or designee certain
           unusable or non-functional items may be discarded into the garbage.
        3. Donations made to OSH that are not useable or needed may not be given to
           staff or other individuals or re-sold for personal gain or profit.
  E. The Volunteer Services Director or designee will manage, direct, and collaborate
     on special events or charitable fundraising events according to processes
     governed by Department of Administrative Services rules. Staff may not
     fundraise or hold a charitable fundraising event at OSH unless the event has
     been approved by the Volunteer Services Director.
  F. The Volunteer Services Director or designee must approve and coordinate all
     donation requests or solicitations to benefit OSH or OSH patients. The Volunteer
     Services Director or designee may prepare a “request for donation” solicitation to
     select societies, businesses, or organizations on behalf of OSH programs and
     departments.
Subject:                                                              Policy Number: 4.011
              Donations, Contributions, Charitable Fundraising
Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                  P AGE 3 OF 5

  G. The Volunteer Services Director or designee may receive and process
     abandoned patient property in accordance with applicable Oregon Administrative
     Rules (OAR), including OAR 141-045-0005 through 141-045-0185, and
     guidelines in OSH Policies and Procedures 8.037, “Patient Property and
     Valuables,” and 6.005, “Deceased Patient.”
        1. If necessary, the Volunteer Services Director must verify with the Security
           Director, Legal Affairs Director, and Consumer and Family Services Director
           that there has been no contact with the patient in the last two years or less if
           there is a question of whether property is unclaimed or abandoned.
        2. Items inadvertently donated to the Volunteer Services Donation Program that
           meet criteria established in OAR 141-045-0031 must be processed by the
           Volunteer Services Donation Program according to guidelines in that rule.
  H. Special fund accounts may be established and managed by the Volunteer
     Services Director or other OSH managers with the approval of the
     Superintendent in accordance with Oregon Revised Statute 179.520 and other
     applicable regulations.
        1. Funds must be expended through state limitation according to State
           Purchasing Rules and OSH Policy and Procedure 4.014, “Procurement of
           Goods, Services, and Personal Services”, and other applicable policies.
        2. No more than three persons may be duly authorized and listed to sign for
           withdrawal from each special fund account. The list must be on record in the
           Business Office.
  I. Upon acceptance of a monetary contribution or gift, a special fund account will be
     created by the Volunteer Services Director and OSH Business Office in the Trust
     Fund Account maintained by the State Treasurer.
        1. New special accounts will be established with a clear statement of the source
           of funds, the intent for the use of the funds, and a record of authorized
           signatures.
        2. Copies of relevant correspondence, wills, and other documents may be
           attached for retention in a permanent file in the Business Office.
        3. Monetary contributions to existing special fund accounts must be deposited
           by the Volunteer Services Director or designee in the Business Office to the
           designated account.
        4. The Business Office must issue a written receipt for all such deposits.
 Subject:                                                                       Policy Number: 4.011
              Donations, Contributions, Charitable Fundraising
 Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                               P AGE 4 OF 5

   J. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Contribution” for the purposes of this policy means a monetary gift.
   B. “Donation” for the purposes of this policy means a non-monetary in-kind product,
      good, or service gift.
   C. “Special Fund Account" means an account consisting entirely of donated
      monetary funds accounted for in the OSH Trust Fund Account maintained by the
      State Treasurer. Expenditures from these accounts are for budgeted expenditure
      limitations.
   D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.005 Deceased Patient
   4.004 Patient Benevolent Fund
   8.037 Patient Property and Valuables
   4.008 Peggy Ross Trust Fund

V. REFERENCES
   Oregon Department of Administrative Services Facilities Manual. Sales and solicitations in state office
      buildings and on state grounds, 107-011-322. Author.
   Oregon Department of Human Services Volunteer Services Manual.
   Oregon Administrative Rules § 125-080-0010.
   Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 137-046-0100 — 137-046-0480.
   Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 943-060-0000 — 943-060-0120.
   Oregon Revised Statute §§ 98.302-98.436
   Oregon Revised Statute §§ 179.510 – 179.530.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 279A.
Subject:                                                       Policy Number: 4.011
            Donations, Contributions, Charitable Fundraising
Date:
            July 25, 2024                                             P AGE 5 OF 5

  Oregon Revised Statute § 279B.
  Oregon Revised Statute § 279C.
