                 OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:      Proposal Process                                       POLICY : 2.016

POINT PERSON:      President of MAHPS

APPROVED:          Interim Superintendent                          DATE: JULY 25, 2024

SELECT ONE:




I. CLINICAL PRACTICE PROPOSALS
  A. Any MAHPS member, MAHPS committee, or the Governing Body may identify an
     evidence-based practice and propose its implementation, in the form of a clinical
     practice guideline, to the MAHPS Executive Committee, clinical leaders, and the
     Governing Body.
     1. Proposed clinical practice guidelines must be referred initially to the President
        of MAHPS.
     2. Proposed clinical practice guidelines must contain the following elements:
        a. Rationale: a brief description of the clinical process or problem which aims
           to be improved by implementation of the proposed guideline.
        b. Affected Disciplines/Departments: identification of all disciplines or
           departments affected by the proposed guideline. At least one of these must
           include a MAHPS discipline.
        c. Proposal: detailed description of the proposed guideline, including
           procedural requirements for all affected staff.
        d. Evidence Base: summary of the evidence used to develop the proposed
           guideline, together with supporting documents, including whether the
           guideline is recognized for inclusion by the National Guideline
           Clearinghouse of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality or a
           similar body.
        e. Metrics: proposed data to be collected to assess efficacy, including
           proposed process and personnel responsible for data collection and
           analysis.
        f. Implementation Plan: procedure for implementation of the proposed
           guideline, including recommendations for education and communication of
           the guideline to affected staff.
PROCEDURES A: Proposal Process                                 POLICY NUMBER: 2.016
DATE:            July 25, 2024                                              Page 2 of 2

 B. Proposals which meet the above criteria must be reviewed by the MAHPS
    Executive Committee, the Chief Medical Officer, and the Superintendent. Review
    by other stakeholders may be requested by the President of MAHPS before the
    proposal is deemed ready for consideration by MAHPS.
    1. Proposals must be reviewed with all of the following factors in mind:
        a. scope of impact on patient care, patient safety, and patient satisfaction
           within OSH
        b. quality of evidence base
        c. applicability to more than one discipline or department within OSH,
           including members of MAHPS
        d. feasibility of implementation, ongoing practice, and enforcement within OSH
    2. Clinical practice guidelines may be implemented only if approved by the
       MAHPS Executive Committee, the Chief Medical Officer, and the
       Superintendent.
 C. Clinical practice guidelines must be implemented initially per the proposal as
    approved. At a minimum, this must include education of and communication to all
    affected staff, a specific set of steps or interventions to be performed or taken, a
    monitoring process to identify whether the guideline is being followed, and a
    process to identify whether the use of the guideline improves care to patients.
    1. Clinical practice guidelines must be published in a centrally accessible,
       electronic location:
        I:\OSH Protocols\Clinical Practice Guidelines
    2. Published clinical practice guidelines must include all of the required elements
       of the proposal in their approved form, except the implementation plan.
    3. Metrics must be collected and reported per the guideline requirements, at a
       minimum to the MAHPS Executive Committee and the appropriate clinical
       discipline chief or chiefs.
 D. On a regular basis (at least once every two years), the MAHPS Executive
    Committee must review all existing clinical practice guidelines or delegate this
    review to the appropriate body.
    1. Review must include analysis of any relevant metrics and feedback from
       stakeholders.
    2. Based on this review, recommendation must be made to the MAHPS Executive
       Committee to revise or discontinue the guideline, as appropriate.
        a. MAHPS Executive Committee may approve revisions to existing guidelines.
        b. MAHPS Executive Committee and the Chief Medical Officer must both
           approve discontinuation of a guideline.
