                                   SHARED SERVICES
                           OFFICE OF INFORMATION SERVICES
                             Information Security and Privacy
                                          Office

Operational Policy

Policy title:      eDiscovery Program Policy

Policy
                   ODHSOHA 090-019
number:

                                                 Last
Original date: 11/01/2024                                        11/01/2024
                                                 update:
                   Kris Kautz, OHA
Approved:
                   Seth Lyon, ODHS
Purpose
The Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) and the Oregon Health Authority
(OHA) are committed to the legal preservation and the exchange of data facilitated
through the eDiscovery program. This policy supports agency requests by authorized
requestors for electronically stored information produced for internal and external
investigations, public record requests, and pending litigation.

Description
This policy outlines the requirements for identifying, collecting, preserving, and
producing electronically stored information.

Applicability
This policy applies to all ODHS and OHA staff including employees, volunteers,
trainees, and interns as well as partners and contractors.

As keepers of the public trust, all employees have a responsibility to comply with state
and agency policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. The agency takes
this responsibility seriously and failure to fulfill this responsibility is not treated lightly.
Employees who fail to comply with state or agency policy, administrative rule, or state
and federal law may face progressive discipline, up to and including dismissal from
state service.




                                           Page 1 of 3             ODHS/OHA 090-019 (11/2024)
Policy
1. The eDiscovery coordinator shall comply with federal and state laws related to the
    protection and preservation of electronically stored information.
2. The eDiscovery coordinator shall manage and fulfill eDiscovery requests made for
    the purpose of internal and external investigations, public record requests, and
    pending litigation.
3. The eDiscovery coordinator shall:
     a. Complete the request within ten business days.
     b. Notify the authorized requestor within five business days if the timeline
        requires more than 10 business days for completion.
4. The eDiscovery coordinator shall provide data only to requestors who have been
    authorized and granted access. The method for becoming an authorized requestor
    is outlined in the ODHSOHA 090-019-01 eDiscovery Program Process.
5. Authorized requestors shall receive, preserve, and deliver agency data provided
    by the eDiscovery coordinator subject to agency retention requirements.
6. Authorized requestors have up to 45 days to move the requested information from
    the ISPO-managed eDiscovery folders to their own secure folder or secure
    location.
     a. After 45 days, the eDiscovery staff shall delete the exported records from
        ISPO-managed eDiscovery folders.
     b. Files requiring a longer retention period shall be moved from the ISPO-
        managed eDiscovery folders by the authorized requestor to their own secure
        folder or secure location.
     c. Moved files shall be subject to the retention policies and litigation needs of the
        applicable ODHS or OHA unit.

References
Acceptable Risk Controls for Affordable Care Act for Medicaid Partner Exchanges
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 26 Duty to Disclose; General Provisions
Governing Discovery
Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 36 General Provisions Governing Discovery
Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 192 Records; Public Reports and Meetings
ODHSOHA 090-019-01 eDiscovery Program Process
ODHSOHA 090-019-02 eDiscovery Program Process Map




                                        Page 2 of 3
Related policies
DAS 107-004-100 Acceptable Use of State Information Assets Policy
ODHSOHA 010-018 Record Retention and Management Policy

Contact
Information Security and Privacy Office (ISPO), eDiscovery
dhsoha.ediscoveryrequests@odhsoha.oregon.gov

This policy shall be reviewed at least once every year to ensure relevance.

Policy history
Version 1 ODHS 090-019 established 11/01/2024

Keywords
Authorized, eDiscovery, discovery, litigation, preserving, producing

This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with
disabilities or in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To
request this document in another format or language, contact the Publications and
Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for TTY, or email dhs-
oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov




                                        Page 3 of 3
