                 OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:      Property Claim Requests                               POLICY : 8.034

POINT PERSON:      Director of Legal Affairs

APPROVED:          Interim Superintendent                         DATE: JULY 25, 2024

SELECT ONE:




I. PROPERTY CLAIMS REQUESTS
   A. Each claim for a permanently damaged item must include the following:
     1. A completed “Application for Staff Reimbursement of Damaged Property” form;
     2. A completed incident report detailing the circumstances of the incident
        including, but not limited to what happened, what was damaged, how it was
        damaged, and who was involved;
     3. Copies of all receipts or estimates for replacement or repair of each
        permanently damaged item; and
     4. Physical evidence that the item was permanently damaged by providing a
        picture of the item showing permanent damage or by providing the OSH Legal
        Affairs Torts and Litigation Department with the damaged item.
   B. A claim must be submitted on the “Application for Staff Reimbursement of
      Damaged Property” form within 180 days after the employee discovers or should
      have discovered the damage.
     1. Before a claim is submitted to the OSH Legal Affairs Torts and Litigation
        Department, it must be reviewed by a supervisor to confirm that a patient was
        involved in the event and that a patient caused permanent damage to the
        property being claimed.
     2. A completed claim must be sent to the OSH Legal Affairs Torts and Litigation
        Department once approved by the employee’s supervisor.
     3. Incomplete claims will not be processed and will be returned to the employee’s
        supervisor.
   C. The OSH Legal Affairs Torts and Litigation Department will review the completed
      claim to determine whether the claim is payable.
PROCEDURES A: Property Claims Requests                            POLICY NUMBER: 8.034
DATE:              July 25, 2024                                               Page 2 of 2

  D. The cost of repair or replacement of prosthetic appliances damaged when in use
     at the time of, and in the course of, a compensable injury is a compensable
     medical expense, including when the worker received no physical injury.
     Reimbursement for prosthetic appliances may be claimed through the workers
     compensation claim process.
  E. A claim will not be paid under the following circumstances:
        1. where damage to an item is not permanent, making the item still usable;
        2. where damage to an item was caused by body fluids including, but not limited
          to blood, urine or feces;
        3. where a claim is invalid, incomplete, or doesn’t qualify for coverage;
        4. where the amount sought exceeds the maximum amount listed in this policy;
        5. where the amount sought exceeds the funds appropriated for such claims;
        6. where replacement cost exceeds the original cost as documented by original
          purchase receipt and replacement receipt, or where the replacement cost is
          unreasonable;
        7. where replacement costs of an item are beyond a reasonable replacement
          value;
        8. where personal items are unnecessary in the completion of job duties as
          determined by the OSH Legal Affairs Torts and Litigation Department (e.g.,
          jewelry, non-prescription sunglasses);
        9. where the person incurring damage has been or may be compensated by
          liability insurance or other restitution; or
        10. where the Superintendent or designee determines the cause or occasion of
         the accident resulting in damage is chargeable to the conduct or negligence of
         the party damaged.
