                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 10:      Medications                                               POLICY: 10.003

SUBJECT:         Medication Crush

POINT PERSON:    Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                               DATE: SEPTEMBER 20, 2024


                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) has the responsibility to provide safe care to
      patients. According to accepted standards of medication management practices,
      OSH will require crushing of medications that have moderate to high risk for
      abuse in order to minimize the potential for diversion. This policy applies to all
      OSH programs.
   B. This policy applies to all staff who provide medication to OSH patients.

II. POLICY
   A. All medications listed in this policy must be crushed unless specifically labeled or
      noted by the Pharmacy Department as DO NOT CRUSH (e.g., sustained
      release, special formulations).
      1. All immediate-release opioid analgesics including, but not limited to:
         a. Oxycodone products (e.g. Oxy IR, Percocet)
         b. Hydrocodone products (e.g. Norco)
         c. Morphine products
         d. Tramadol products (e.g. Ultram)
         e. Codeine products (e.g. Tylenol #3)
         f. Hydromorphone products (e.g. Dilaudid)
         g. Methadone
         h. Oxymorphone products (e.g. Opana)
      2. All benzodiazepines including, but not limited to:
Subject:                                                    Policy Number: 10.003
           Medication Crush
Date:      September 20, 2024                                            P AGE 2 OF 3

        a. Lorazepam (Ativan)
        b. Clonazepam (Klonopin)
        c. Diazepam (Valium)
        d. Temazepam (Restoril)
        e. Chlordiazepoxide (Librium)
     3. Non-benzodiazepine sedative/hypnotic agents (e.g. “Z-drugs”) including, but
        not limited to:
        a. Zolpidem (Ambien)
        b. Eszopiclone (Lunesta)
        c. Zaleplon (Sonata)
     4. Gabapentinoids including, but not limited to:
        a. Gabapentin (Neurontin)
        b. Pregabalin (Lyrica)
     5. Stimulants (immediate release) including, but not limited to:
        a. Amphetamine products (e.g. Adderall, Dexedrin)
        b. Methylphenidate products (e.g. Ritalin)
        c. Modafinil (Provigil)
     6. Miscellaneous (immediate release) drugs with abuse potential at OSH
        including, but not limited to:
        a. Quetiapine (Seroquel)
        b. Bupropion products (e.g. Wellbutrin)
  B. Physicians and nurse practitioners may write orders to crush other medications
     not included on the list above as appropriate (e.g., “Crush Acetaminophen”).
 C. If a physician/ nurse practitioner believes a patient requires an exception for the
    crush order, they must receive approval from the CMO.
     1. Exceptions may only be granted if all other medication options have been
        exhausted (ex. liquid form, IM, oral disintegrating) and if Occupational
        Therapy (OT) or Speech-Language Pathology (SLP) have recommended an
        exception due to sensory or swallowing concerns. Exceptions will not be
        granted based on patient preference alone.
 D. Nursing staff must perform careful mouth checks for those patients that have an
    exception and immediately report any behaviors of concern to the
    physician/nurse practitioner and interdisciplinary treatment team.
  E. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
     rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
     and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
     standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
     policy is more restrictive.
 Subject:                                                      Policy Number: 10.003
            Medication Crush
 Date:      September 20, 2024                                             P AGE 3 OF 3

   F. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.   DEFINITIONS
   A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   Nursing Services Department Protocol 2.060 Medication Administration
   6.055 Medication management
