                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 5:        Human Resources                                           POLICY: 5.018

SUBJECT:          Volunteers

POINT PERSON:     Deputy Superintendent

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                              DATE: NOVEMBER 15, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) maintain a volunteer services program individuals
      and groups can volunteer to provide services to patients or others at OSH. This
      policy outlines the parameters for volunteer services, and the requirements of
      anyone interested in volunteering at OSH.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. A volunteer means anyone who is approved by Volunteer Services to provide
      services at OSH without remuneration, including but not limited to a one-time
      professional volunteer.
      1. An individual who provides a professional service or educational visit within
         one eight-hour period as a one-time, approved, registered, volunteer is
         considered a one-time professional volunteer.
   B. A volunteer may not provide clinical care to patients, except as outlined in this
      policy.
      1. Pre-approved, trained volunteer support may be utilized for direct patient care
         in specific situations as identified by emergency operations and as approved
         per instance by the superintendent or designee.
      2. In specific situations as identified by emergency operations, the
         superintendent or designee may grant temporary approval for the utilization of
         pre-approved, trained, and specifically qualified volunteer support for direct
         patient care under the supervision of OSH management. Such volunteers
Subject:                                                              Policy Number: 5.018
              Volunteers
Date:
              November 15, 2024                                              P AGE 2 OF 4

           must maintain any active licenses or continued education for the roles
           performed and will only be authorized to provide direct patient care for the
           duration of the identified temporary need (and will be relieved of direct patient
           care duties as soon as adequate employee coverage is possible).
  C. Before any person volunteers at OSH, they must complete the volunteer
     application process and orientation, or briefing required by Volunteer Services
     and applicable OSH policies.
  D. Each volunteer will be assigned a supervisor who is responsible for their
     necessary site or program orientation, training, supervision, assignments, and
     evaluation. The supervisor must coordinate all volunteer positions and status
     changes with Volunteer Services.
  E. Volunteer Services must maintain a personnel file on all volunteers. At minimum,
     the file must contain a position description describing the duties to be performed,
     all completed orientation papers, the Human Resources criminal or background
     check results notification statement, and other materials as directed by the
     Volunteer Services Director.
  F. Volunteers must follow all applicable laws or regulations, OSH policies and
     procedures, and program or department protocols. If a volunteer does not follow
     these regulations, the Director of Volunteer Services or designee, Human
     Resource Analyst or hospital leadership may dismiss the volunteer.
  G. Staff may volunteer if the volunteer work is substantially different from the
     individual's assigned work (i.e., the volunteer work is not in the same
     occupational category as defined by the Dictionary of Occupational Titles) and all
     approvals are in place prior to the volunteer work being conducted.
  H. A former patient may serve in a volunteer capacity at OSH if:
        1. they were discharged from OSH more than one year before applying to
           volunteer,
        2. there is a demonstrated need for the volunteer activity,
        3. the director or supervisor of the area in which the individual would volunteer
           deems that volunteering would be consistent with their continued
           development as a former patient, and
        4. their community caregiver, if applicable, agrees to the volunteer arrangement.
  I. A current patient may serve in a volunteer capacity at OSH if:
        1. the patient expresses a desire to volunteer,
        2. the patient’s interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT) determines that
           volunteering is consistent with the patient's treatment program,
 Subject:                                                               Policy Number: 5.018
               Volunteers
 Date:
               November 15, 2024                                                P AGE 3 OF 4

         3. the IDT provides a demonstrated need for the patient's volunteer activity to
            Vocational Services, and
         4. the patient’s volunteer activities are consistent with patient rights as set forth
            in Oregon Revised Statute 426.385.
            a. A patient's volunteer activities must be recreational in nature and may not
               be construed as, nor confused with, work activities. Allowed recreational
               activities include, but are not limited to arts and crafts, playing games,
               general visiting, taking walks, field trips, recreational gardening.
            b. A patient may not provide patient care (e.g., changing beds, bathing,
               feeding, toileting), kitchen work, custodial work, plant maintenance and
               repair, or grounds work (e.g., mowing and watering lawns, trimming
               hedges and trees).
   J. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A        Volunteering, Standard Procedures

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   8.004 Criminal Offender Information Access
   5.017 Dress code for Staff Author.
   2.013 Electronic Health Record Access
   5.028 Electronic Time Management System
   4.006 Meal service for Staff and Others
   8.007 Identification Badges
   9.010 Interns
 Subject:                                                                    Policy Number: 5.018
              Volunteers
 Date:
              November 15, 2024                                                       P AGE 4 OF 4

   8.021 Key Inventory and Control
   7.008 Patient Abuse or Mistreatment Allegation Reporting
   5.009 Staff and Patient Relationships
   8.006 Vehicle Usage
   8.026 Visitors to Patients

VI. REFERENCES
   Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. § 8 (1938)
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for behavioral health care, CTS.06.01.03. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, EM.12.02.07. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Oregon Administrative Rule § 407-043-0020.
   Oregon Department of Administrative Services Policy Manual. Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA),
      20.005.20.
   Oregon Department of Administrative Services Policy Manual. Liability self-insurance policy manual,
      125-7-201. Risk Management.
   Oregon Department of Human Services. Background Checks on DHS Volunteers, DHS-060-010-04.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 409.360.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 413.036.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 426.385.
