                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                              POLICY
  SECTION 5:         Human Resource Management                                POLICY: 5.017

  SUBJECT:           Dress Code for Staff

  POINT PERSON:      Chief Financial Officer/ Chief Operations Officer

  APPROVED:          Dr. Sara Walker                              DATE: NOVEMBER 15, 2024


                     Interim Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:




I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. This policy establishes a dress code for Oregon State Hospital (OSH) which
         ensures personal appearance of staff is appropriate to their assigned job duties
         and maintains professionalism. Staff dress influences the patient environment,
         and this policy establishes guidelines to protect patient experience, wellbeing,
         and safety at OSH.
      B. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Staff must present a clean, neat, and professional appearance to persons
         served, members of the public and to fellow staff.
      B. Clothing must be appropriate, clean, in good repair and considered professional
         casual wear; staff may dress more formally if work duties allow. Clothing must be
         discreet and respectful of patients and other staff and be appropriate for the work
         performed.
         A. Camouflage or military-type clothing may not be worn.
         B. Torn clothing that exposes the midriff, thighs, or backside may not be worn.
         C. Clothing may not be provocative. Clothing that is lowcut, or that exposes
            undergarments, back, midriff, or thighs at any time (i.e., while sitting,
            standing, or bending over) may not be worn.
SUBJECT: Dress Code for Staff                                    POLICY NUMBER: 5.017

DATE:      November 15, 2024                                                PAGE 2 OF 4

     D. Clothing may not be worn with words or logos relating to alcohol, tobacco
        products, drugs, vulgarity, violence, bigotry, sexual connotations, or those
        containing allusion to the items listed above.
     E. The outer shirt layer may not consist of tank tops or tops that expose the
        chest, back or midriff without an acceptable covering shirt.
            a. An acceptable covering shirt must be opaque, cover any disallowed
               exposure and follow additional requirements as listed in this policy.
     F. Short skirts which rise higher than mid-thigh when sitting or standing may not
        be worn.
     G. Leggings may only be worn if a mid-thigh length outer layer is worn and they
        are not see-through at any time (i.e., while sitting, standing, or bending over).
     H. Shorts must:
            a. Be knee length and may not rise more than two inches above the knee
               when seated;
            b. Be hemmed (i.e., may not be cut-off pants); and
            c. Be appropriate for the work setting.
     I. Jewelry that constitutes a safety hazard may not be worn including, but not
        limited to, long, looped necklaces or choker necklaces.
     J. Shoes must be worn at all times and must be appropriate to the work
        environment.
  C. Clothing, including accessories, must be appropriate to the work assignment and
     environment. Clothing and accessories should provide ease of movement and
     protection from avoidable risk of injury.
  D. Uniforms are required only in designated departments where more specific
     clothing requirements are appropriate (i.e., Food and Nutrition Services), staff of
     such departments must follow associated protocols and guidelines.
     1. More restrictive clothing requirements and personal protective equipment may
        be adopted as necessary due to safety and other needs of the workplace.
  E. Hats or other head coverings may not be worn indoors except as appropriate for
     health, safety, religious, or worksite reasons, or for a uniform.
     1. Tinted safety glass with full field of vision may be worn as an alternative to
        wearing a hat. Wearing sunglasses indoors is prohibited.
SUBJECT: Dress Code for Staff                                     POLICY NUMBER: 5.017

DATE:      November 15, 2024                                                  PAGE 3 OF 4

         a. Staff with approved accommodations from HR are exempt from the
            requirements above.
     2. All headwear is subject to inspection for security purposes. If an inspection of
        religious headwear is necessary, the person wearing the religious headwear
        may request a private screening with a security staff of their choice who is on
        duty.
  F. OSH is not responsible for repair or replacement of valuable jewelry or clothing
     damaged while the staff is on duty.
     1. Under special circumstances, OSH may consider claims according to current
        collective bargaining agreements and OSH policy 8.034, “Property Claims for
        Employee Personal Property.”
  G. Exceptions to this policy may be temporarily approved by the Superintendent or
     designee.
  H. Each supervisor must monitor staff clothing compliance with this policy.
     1. If a supervisor believes policy is not being followed by staff, the supervisor
        must discuss with staff.
     2. If it is concluded that staff attire is against policy, the supervisor must
        determine appropriate follow up action.
         a. Appropriate follow up actions include but are not limited to a discussion
            with staff regarding dress code expectations, staff adding another
            compliant layer to address the concern, removal of staff from patient care
            areas, and sending staff home to change.
     3. If staff is sent home to change, the supervisor must immediately notify HR.
        Time usage under these circumstances must be charged in accordance with
        collective bargaining agreements or as directed by Human Resources.
  I. Conflicts involving the interpretation of this policy may be resolved by the staff’s
     direct supervisor or by another manager as approved by the department or
     Program Director.
     1. Staff are encouraged to discuss clothing appropriateness with their direct
        supervisor.
     2. Ethnic or cultural attire which may conflict with this policy must be reviewed
        and approved by the staff’s direct supervisor in consultation with the Office of
        Human Resources prior to the staff having direct patient contact.
       SUBJECT: Dress Code for Staff                                        POLICY NUMBER: 5.017

       DATE:      November 15, 2024                                                     PAGE 4 OF 4

         J. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Leggings” in this policy includes but is not limited to any tight-fitting stretch pants
            such as exercise pants, leggings, or tights.
         B. “Patient-care area” for the purpose of this policy means any portion of the facility
            wherein a patient is intended to be examined or treated.
         C. “Professional casual wear” for the purpose of this policy means clean and job
            appropriate clothing that is comfortable, provides coverage and allows for ease of
            movement.
         D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
            and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).



IV.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
         5.008 Equal Opportunity Employment or Non-Discrimination
         5.009 Staff and Patient Relationships
         5.016 Adults in Custody Workforce
         5.018 Volunteers
         5.031 Flexible Work Solutions
         6.006 On-grounds and Off-grounds Movement
         8.034 Property Claims for Employee Personal Property

V.       REFERENCES
         Applicable collective bargaining agreements and contracts
