SUBJECT: NATIVE ARTIFACTS AND PROPERTY                          POLICY NUMBER: 7.017

DATE: 10/30/2025                                                                 PAGE20F3


  D. Within the limits of safely and resources, OSH will:
     1. Act with and follow OSH policy 7.011 Faiths, Beliefs and Practices, as well as
        any applicable tribal, federal, and state laws regarding religious, spiritual, and
        cultural practices;
     2. Consult and collaborate with the Native Services department to purchase
        artifacts recognized by Native communities or tribes for patients to use during
        ceremonies and other practices.


 DI. Staff authorized by the Native Services Coordinator are expected to attend and
     support patients' cultural needs by performing any or all of the following
     functions related to Native, Alaskan Native, and other Indigenous tribal and
     cultural items:
     1. Helping patients use Native or Tribal artifacts correctly, alone or in groups.
        Helping patients order, receive, or send sacred items. Patients who want to
        order sacred items must work with Native Services staff, get approval from
        the Native Services Coordinator or designee, and follow purchasing steps.
 DII. Patients who want to mail sacred items may ask Native Services staff
      with packaging and mailing. All sacred items must be handled with care and
      respect.
     •   Staff must work with the Native Services Coordinator or designee for proper
         handling, search, and storage. If sacred items must be stored, Native
         Services staff will assist with this process.
     •   Sacred items should only be taken away if they contain contraband or the
         patient refuses a search.
         a. If a medicine bag contains contraband or cannot be searched, it may be
             confiscated.
         b. Confiscation must involve the Native Services Coordinator and OSH
             Security staff.
         c. The treatment team must work with Native Services before returning
             items.
     •   If sacred items must be searched, the Native Services Coordinator or
         designee must be present.
         a. Staff may wear protective equipment if needed, following OSH policy
             8.031.

DIII. Inter-Tribal Sweat Lodge Ceremony is a deeply spiritual practice rooted in
      Indigenous traditions that is practiced at Oregon State Hospital.
     1. Sweat Lodge uses an interdisciplinary approach requiring the patient, Native
        Services Coordinator, Interdisciplinary Treatment Team (IDT), medical
