                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                             POLICY: 6.065

SUBJECT:          Pregnant Patient Care, Labor,
                  and Birth

POINT PERSON:     Chief Medical Officer

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                   DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                             Minor/technical revision of
                                                         existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy       Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) will provide a pregnant patient with care necessary
      to support the mother and baby’s health and safety throughout the pregnancy,
      labor, and birth. This policy outlines the parameters and requirements of care for
      pregnant patients.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. A pregnant patient’s interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT) must consult with the
      Program Executive Team to establish a plan of care. The patient’s treatment care
      plan must include plans for term pregnant care and a safety plan for the baby if
      they are born at OSH.
   B. While in labor, a patient may not be put in secure transport restraints (STRs)
      during transportation to or during labor at an acute-care hospital. This exception
      does not apply to a pregnant patient who is not in labor.
   C. A patient who is in labor may be buckled for safety during transportation as
      directed by emergency medical services (EMS) personnel.
   D. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
 Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 6.065
             Pregnant Patient Care, Labor, and Birth
 Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 2

   E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT)” includes the attending
      psychiatrist/psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner (PMHNP), registered
      nurse (RN), psychologist, social worker, mental health therapist MHT or case
      monitor, treatment care plan specialist (TCPS), and any other clinical staff
      member who provides active treatment to the patient. The IDT is responsible to
      coordinate in planning and overseeing a patient’s care and treatment.
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Pregnant Patient Care, Labor, and Birth Procedures

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.003 Incident Reporting
   6.045 Clinical Documentation
   8.038 Code Blue Medical Emergency
   8.039 Secure Transport Restraints
