                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                               POLICY
SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                              POLICY: 6.031

SUBJECT:          Dysphagia Screening,
                  Management, and Treatment

POINT PERSON:     Chief of Medicine

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                    DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                             Minor/technical revision of
                                                         existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy       Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows established guidelines for routine screening
      of the signs and symptoms of dysphagia in order to identify patients who have a
      pre-existing condition or develop signs and symptoms related to dysphagia. This
      policy outlines the requirements for dysphagia screening, management, and
      treatment at OSH.
   B. This policy applies to clinical staff.

II. POLICY
   A. Physicians and nurse practitioners are ultimately responsible for oversight of
      dysphagia screening, management, and care.
   B. All patients newly admitted to OSH must be screened for the risk of dysphagia.
   C. Risk of dysphagia must be assessed in all patients as part of the initial and
      annual medical history and physical examination.
   D. Any patient with a significant choking incident requiring assistance from staff
      must be assessed by a physician or nurse practitioner for a formal swallowing
      evaluation by a speech-language pathologist.
   E. Physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses, dietitians, and other clinicians must
      follow procedures attached to this policy when managing dysphagia risk.
   F. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
 Subject:                                                                  Policy Number: 6.031
              Dysphagia Screening, Management, and Treatment
 Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                         P AGE 2 OF 2

         standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
         policy is more restrictive.
   G. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Clinical staff” means any person employed or contracted by OSH to provide
      clinical services to patients.
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A        Dysphagia Screening Procedures

V. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS

VI. REFERENCES
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for behavioral healthcare and human services, CTS.04.03.33.Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
   Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
       for hospitals, PC.02.02.03.Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.
