                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                             POLICY
  SECTION 1:       Administration                                              POLICY: 1.016

  SUBJECT:         OSH Delegation of Authority

  POINT
                   Superintendent
  PERSON:

  APPROVED:        Dolores Matteucci                                   DATE: APRIL 13, 2023

                   Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                           Minor/technical revision of existing
                     New policy proposal
                                                        policy
                     Reaffirmation of existing policy   Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. The Oregon State Hospital (OSH) is a division of the Oregon Health Authority
         (OHA), an Executive Branch state agency led by the Governor-appointed
         Director of OHA. Oregon statutes require the Director of OHA to appoint the
         Superintendent of OSH, who serves as the executive head of OSH.
      B. The Director of OHA serves as the governing body for OSH, providing – among
         other things – delegated authority to the OSH Superintendent for standing
         meetings, privileging/credentialing of licensed independent practitioners, and
         other duties prescribed by statute and necessary for the public good.
      C. OSH recognizes that to conduct business and to have an effective plan of
         succession, certain authority must be delegated from the OSH Superintendent to
         other appropriate hospital staff. This policy describes OSH executive authority
         delegations and executive responsibilities.
      D. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. The OSH Superintendent reserves all authority authorized by OHA and law.
      B. Persons receiving delegated authority under this policy may not further delegate
         that authority, unless otherwise noted by this policy, the OSH Superintendent, or
         other OSH policy.
       SUBJECT: OSH Delegation of Authority                             POLICY NUMBER: 1.016

       DATE:      April 13, 2023                                                   PAGE 2 OF 3

         C. The OSH Superintendent establishes and delegates authority to the OSH
            Executive Team. Via the OSH Executive Team, the Superintendent and the OHA
            Director bring together executive OSH leaders to establish organizational
            priorities, make executive decisions, and keep OSH on track toward its goals.
            1. OSH Executive Team responsibilities and delegations are as described in
               Attachment A.
            2. Procedures A describes and clarifies OSH executive delegated responsibility
               (i.e., identifies who the responsible executive leader is for each OSH campus
               at all times).
         D. The OSH Superintendent delegates administration and oversight of financial
            authority at OSH and Pendleton Cottage to the Chief Financial Officer. The Chief
            Financial Officer establishes and maintains a system to delegate signature
            authority, including financial authority, at OSH and Pendleton Cottage
            (Procedures B).
         E. The OSH Superintendent delegates administration and oversight of Pendleton
            Cottage to the Pendleton Cottage Program Director.
         F. The OSH Superintendent may delegate responsibility and grant authority ad hoc
            as required. The Superintendent maintains a file of such delegations.
         G. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         H. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
            and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV.      PROCEDURES
         Procedures A     OSH Executive Delegated Responsibility
         Procedures B     Signature Authority Delegation

V.       ATTACHMENTS
         Attachment A     OSH Executive Team
       SUBJECT: OSH Delegation of Authority                                     POLICY NUMBER: 1.016

       DATE:        April 13, 2023                                                          PAGE 3 OF 3

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
         All OSH policies and protocols
         1.005 Information Technology Hardware and Software
         4.007 Capital and Non-Capital Assets
         4.012 Medical Equipment or Goods and Outside Medical Service Purchase
         4.018 OSH Purchase Process: Supplies, Assets, and Equipment
         4.020 Contracts at Oregon State Hospital
         5.028 Electronic Time Management System
         9.002 Training for Staff

VII.     REFERENCES
         All applicable collective bargaining agreements and contracts
         42 CFR §482.12
         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.01.01.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.01.02.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.01.03.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.01.04.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.02.01.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.02.02.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.02.04.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2023). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for behavioral healthcare, LD.03.02.01 Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

         Oregon Revised Statute § 179.321.

         Oregon Revised Statue § 179.331.

         Oregon Revised Statue § 179.360.

         Shared Services Delegated Signature Authorization (MSC 286) [form]
