                                      SHARED SERVICES
                                 Office of Information Services
                            Information Security and Privacy Office

Operational Policy

Policy title:     Administrative Privileges Policy

Policy
                  ODHSOHA 090-013
number:

                                               Last
Original date:    03/07/2022                                 08/01/2025
                                               update:
                  Kris Kautz, OHA
Approved:
                  Seth Lyon, ODHS

Purpose
The Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS) and the Oregon Health Authority
(OHA) are committed to the security of agency information systems. The agency gives
administrative access to limited numbers of individuals under clearly defined
circumstances to reduce the risk of exposure to the ODHS and OHA network from
malware and other vulnerability exploits that may lead to security incidents, system
performance issues, lost productivity, higher support costs, and the unavailability or loss
of data.

Description
This policy describes the circumstances under which administrative privileges are
granted to ODHS and OHA staff and the on-going administration and monitoring of
those privileges.

Applicability
This policy applies to all ODHS and OHA staff, including employees, volunteers, interns,
contractors, and partners.

As keepers of the public trust, all agency employees have a responsibility to comply with
state and agency policies, administrative rule, and state and federal law. The agency
takes this responsibility seriously and failure to fulfill this responsibility is not treated
lightly. Employees who fail to comply with state or agency policy, administrative rule, or
state and federal law may face progressive discipline, up to and including dismissal from
state service.


                                          Page 1 of 4     ODHSOHA 090-013 (08/2025)
Policy
1. Staff shall be provided only with the level of access necessary to accomplish
   assigned tasks in accordance with agency missions and business functions.
2. Staff with administrative privileges shall only use this elevated access when
   performing assigned tasks that require elevated access such as installing updates,
   installing applications, managing user accounts, and modifying operating system
   (OS) and application settings.
3. Staff with administrative privileges shall use a dedicated or secondary account for
   activities requiring elevated privileges. Users shall:
   a. Establish unique, different passwords for their administrator and non-
      administrative accounts.
   b. Use multi-factor authentication and encrypted channels for all administrative
      account access.
   c. Use passwords unique to the system that meet any applicable regulatory
      requirements where multi-factor authentication is not supported, such as local
      administrator, root, or service accounts.
   d. Only use agency supported equipment when performing tasks requiring
      administrative privileges.
   e. Not conduct general computing activities, such as internet browsing, email, and
      productivity suite use, using privileged administrative accounts.
   f. Install only approved software on agency-owned devices.
4. Centralized account management shall be used for authentication, where applicable,
   for all applications and devices using a directory or identity and authorization
   management system approved by the Office of Information Services (OIS).
5. System owners, program owners, or delegates shall establish and maintain a
   documented process to inventory administrator accounts, including cloud, domain,
   and local accounts, to ensure only authorized individuals have elevated privileges. A
   system owner is an official responsible for the overall procurement, development,
   integration, modification, operation, and maintenance of a system.1
6. The account owner’s manager shall ensure administrative account access remains
   necessary to perform assigned job functions on a recurring schedule at least
   annually.
7. ODHS and OHA managers shall ensure that assigned access entitlements are
   reviewed to validate their necessity and that roles assigned follow the principle of
   least privilege requirements, providing users with only the access necessary to
   perform their assigned organizational tasks.2 (Refer to ODHSOHA 090-003 Access
   Control Policy).

1 National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (SP) 800-53 Rev. 5
2 Statewide Information Technology Control Standards AC-6

                                                       Page 2 of 4         ODHSOHA 090-013 (08/2025)
8. If services are outsourced to third parties, privacy and security language shall be
   included in the contracts or in standalone access agreements to ensure the third
   party protects and controls administrative access and complies with any applicable
   federal requirements. The program sponsoring the access shall also submit a MSC
   0785 Third Party Information System Access Request.

References
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS)
Security Policy
Internal Revenue Service Publication 1075, Tax Information Security Guidelines for
Federal, State and Local Agencies
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (SP) 800-53
Rev. 5 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations
Minimum Acceptable Risk Safeguards for Exchanges (MARS-E) Document Suite,
Volume 1: Harmonized Security and Privacy Framework, Version 2.2
Statewide Information Security Plan
Statewide Information Technology Control Standards
ODHSOHA Agency Information Security Plan
Center for Internet Security Controls
ODHSOHA 090-003-05 User Access Process
ODHSOHA 090-003-08 Third Party Entity Approval for System Access Process

Forms
MSC 0785 Third Party Information System Access Request

Related policies
DAS 107-004-110 Acceptable Use of State Information Assets
DAS 107-004-140 Privileged Access to Information Systems
ODHSOHA 070-014 Information Technology Asset Management Policy
ODHSOHA 090-003 Access Control Policy
ODHSOHA 090-009 Administrative, Technical and Physical Safeguards of Information
Policy

This policy shall be reviewed at least once every year to ensure relevance.

Contact
Office of Information Services
Service Desk: 503-945-5623

                                        Page 3 of 4    ODHSOHA 090-013 (08/2025)
OIS.servicedesk@dhsoha.oregon.gov

Policy history
Version 1 ODHSOHA established 03/07/2022
Version 2 ODHS|OHA revised 03/06/2023
Version 3 ODHSOHA revised 08/01/2025

Keywords
Access, Account, Elevated, Entitlements, Multi-Factor, rights, Password

This document can be provided upon request in an alternate format for individuals with
disabilities or in a language other than English for people with limited English skills. To
request this document in another format or language, contact the Publications and
Design Section at 503-378-3486, 7-1-1 for TTY, or email dhs-
oha.publicationrequest@odhsoha.oregon.gov




                                          Page 4 of 4     ODHSOHA 090-013 (08/2025)
