                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 8:        Safety, Security, Emergency                                POLICY: 8.044
                  Management

SUBJECT:          Contraband, Prohibited Items,
                  Limited Access Items

POINT PERSON:     Director of Security

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                 DATE: JANUARY 15, 2025

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                                Minor/technical revision of
                  New policy
                                                           existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) strives to provide a safe treatment environment for
      patients where contraband requires specific actions when discovered, which are
      established in this policy and attached procedures.
   B. This policy applies to all staff and visitors on OSH property; this also applies to
      patient care environments which may be on-grounds or off-grounds.

II. POLICY
   A. Supplying contraband into OSH may result in a Class C felony charge. Signs
      indicating contraband requirements must be posted at each entrance.
   B. Any person who enters OSH facilities, including the person’s belongings, is
      subject to search.
   C. Per Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 309-108-0020, a patient must be
      informed of this policy upon admission.
   D. If a person supplies contraband, or a patient knowingly makes, obtains, or
      possesses contraband, staff must immediately contact Security and follow
      Procedures A.
   E. Staff should consult Attachment C for related OSH Policies and Procedures that
      must be considered in conjunction with this policy in more specific scenarios,
      such as patient property, admissions, or purchase requests.
Subject:                                                             Policy Number: 8.044
              Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
Date:
              January 15, 2025                                              P AGE 2 OF 8

        1. All items entering patient care areas must follow appropriate procedure for
           acquisition and use.
  F. Prohibited items are not allowed in patient possession and must be handled as
     contraband as instructed in this policy’s procedures.
        1. An exception to this is when patients are attending treatment mall, classes, or
           vocational work where specific prohibited items are approved for use within
           the designated area and under staff supervision.
        2. Staff must not provide prohibited items to a patient outside the provisions of
           this policy.
        3. Staff must secure found prohibited items and follow Procedures A. Security,
           and law enforcement if applicable, must be consulted before an item may be
           stored, disposed of, or destroyed.
  G. Limited access items must only be used in the settings and for the purposes
     established in the attachments of this policy. Any limited access item that is
     found outside of these parameters must be treated as a prohibited item.
  H. Staff may transport personal items considered to be prohibited in patient care
     areas if the item is listed in Attachment B. The item(s) must remain in staff’s
     secure possession at all times.
  I. Items that do not appear on Attachment A may be allowed unrestricted on units
     within reasonable amounts unless contraindicated by the patient’s treatment care
     plan, state or federal law, other regulation, or other OSH policy. However,
     Attachment A is not all-inclusive and OSH may restrict items that are not
     specifically listed as needed.
  J. An accommodation may be requested for religious or native practices; see also
     OSH Policies 7.011 “Faiths Beliefs, and Practices,” and 7.017 “Native Artifacts
     and Property.”
  K. See Attachment C for related policies, for example 4.018 “OSH Purchase and
     maintenance,” on how to request a product that may be eligible for an exception,
     such as aromatherapy products or medical devices (See also Attachment A for
     more information).
  L. If approved, an item exception or accommodation must be documented in the
     patient’s treatment care plan.
        1. Refer to applicable Nursing protocol regarding documentation process.
 Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 8.044
              Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
 Date:
              January 15, 2025                                              P AGE 3 OF 8

   M. A patient’s IDT may restrict an item that is currently unrestricted at OSH or may
      require extra supervision of the patient when using an item, based on the
      patient’s individual needs, safety, and treatment care plan.
         1. A more restrictive limitation must be documented in the patient’s treatment
            care plan.
         2. A more restrictive limitation on a patient’s access must be reviewed by the
            patient’s IDT at least every 30 days. The review must be documented and
            must include a rationale for continuing the more restrictive limitation.
   N. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   O. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Chain of custody” means an unbroken, documented trail of accountability that is
      initiated and maintained by staff that proves the physical security, including
      movement and location, of an item.
   B. “Contraband” means any controlled substance, drugs not prescribed to the
      patient, drugs not prescribed or authorized by OSH, drug paraphernalia,
      weapons, unauthorized currency, or prohibited items.
   C. “Criminal act” or “alleged criminal act” means an act or crime actually or allegedly
      committed by a person which violates a law and is punishable by the state or
      federal government. Such acts may include, but are not limited to, assault,
      vandalism, theft, threat to staff, supplying contraband into OSH, or suspicious
      activity on an OSH campus.
         1. An "alleged criminal act" should be considered to have occurred if:
            a. a staff member has reasonable cause to believe a crime has been
               committed; or
            b. information has been reported to a staff member which, if true, would
               constitute a crime.
   D. “Drug” means:
Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 8.044
             Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
Date:
             January 15, 2025                                              P AGE 4 OF 8

        1. Substances recognized as drugs in the official United States Pharmacopoeia,
           official Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States or official National
           Formulary, or any supplement to any of them;
        2. Substances intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or
           prevention of disease in humans or animals;
        3. Substances (other than food) intended to affect the structure or any function
           of the body of humans or animals, including but not limited to vitamins,
           supplements, dietary powders, synthetic cathinones, synthetic cannabinoids;
           or
        4. Substances intended for use as a component of any article specified in
           paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of this subsection; however, the term does not
           include devices or their components, parts or accessories.
  E. “Drug Paraphernalia” means all equipment, products and materials of any kind
     that are marketed for use or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
     growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
     processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
     containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into
     the human body a controlled substance in violation of ORS 475.752 to 475.980.
  F. “Excess Personal Property” means property which cannot be stored in the
     designated storage in the patient’s room or personal storage space on the unit.
  G. “Hospital Level of Care (HLOC)” means the treatment and services specific to
     what only a psychiatric hospital can perform and are not able to be performed by
     community placements and/or services outside of the hospital.
  H. “Level of care” means the intensity of psychiatric or medical care provided to a
     patient by OSH and differentiated by “hospital level of care” or “secure residential
     treatment facility (SRTF) level of care”.
  I. “Limited Access Item” means an item that could pose a safety or security risk in
     the possession of a patient but is permitted for a set duration of time with the
     prior authorization of OSH staff and, if applicable, with the direct supervision of
     OSH staff. A limited access item becomes a prohibited item if the patient
     possesses or uses the item outside of the scope of the authorization or without
     OSH staff supervision if required.
  J. “OSH Property” includes OSH buildings, surrounding grounds, and parking lots.
     Personally owned vehicles parked on OSH property are not considered part of
     OSH property.
Subject:                                                             Policy Number: 8.044
             Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
Date:
             January 15, 2025                                               P AGE 5 OF 8

  K. “On-grounds” means any area outside the secure perimeter (e.g., outside a
     sallyport), while still on the OSH campus (Salem or Junction City).
        1. On-grounds areas on the Salem campus include the Empowerment Center;
           Kirkbride building floors 2, 3, and 4; the OSH Museum; Cottages, tennis court;
           and the OSH disc golf courses.
        2. On-grounds areas on the Junction City campus include the Education and
           Development Department classrooms, National Alliance on Mental Illness
           (NAMI) office, administration second-floor areas, community gardens, NAMI
           memorial garden, disc golf course, fruit orchard, and the access road.
  L. “Patient care area” means any place at OSH where a patient may be examined
     or treated, may have unrestricted or supervised access, or may spend time,
     which includes, but is not limited to, units, treatment malls, quads, ballfield, etc.
  M. “Patient care environment” means patient care areas, as well as environments
     where patients are on outings (cottages, etc.) outside the secure perimeter.
  N. “Prohibited item” means:
        1. Alcohol;
        2. Possession of drugs in the patient's room without authorization by OSH;
        3. Any item that reasonably could be used to escape or leave the hospital
           without authorization;
        4. Food stored in the patient room or in the patient's storage in the patient
           property room;
        5. Any item in the possession of a patient who is prohibited from possessing or
           using that item in their treatment care plan because it is considered
           detrimental to their treatment;
        6. Excess personal property;
        7. Any limited access item in the possession of a patient that exceeds the
           scope of the authorization or is not being supervised by OSH staff as
           required; or,
        8. Any item that could pose a safety or security risk for the hospital.
  O. “Reasonable amount” is defined as property that fits into the storage areas
     assigned to patients: the storage area in the patient’s room and one clear plastic
     bin in the Patient Property room, food items need to fit within snack bin
 Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 8.044
              Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
 Date:
              January 15, 2025                                              P AGE 6 OF 8

   P. “Reasonable cause” or “reasonable suspicion” may be used interchangeably and
      means an OSH staff member has knowledge or notice of facts or circumstances
      and the rational inferences drawn therefrom that would lead a reasonable and
      experienced OSH staff member to come to a conclusion.
   Q. “Secure perimeter” means restricted high-security buildings, areas, and quads
      within the sally port entrances and exits at the state hospital.
   R. “Secure possession” means an item is transported in staff’s possession to a
      locked area such as a locker or a locked staff area and includes the time period
      when the item is secured in the locked area.
   S. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
   T. “Unauthorized Currency” means paper money and coins in the possession of a
      patient in an amount or in a location not authorized by OSH.
   U. “Unrestricted item” means any item that is not contraband that has been
      authorized by OSH for the patient’s use or possession.
   V. “Weapon” means any item that can be used or modified to be used to harm the
      patient or others, including but not limited to guns, knives, improvised pointed or
      bladed instrument, and pepper spray.
   W. “Workplace violence” means behavior that to a reasonable person is intimidating,
      hostile, threatening, violent or abusive. Such behavior may include:
         1. Threats and threatening behavior such as physical, verbal, or written acts that
            express or are reasonably perceived to imply intent to cause physical or
            psychological harm against a person or persons, or cause damage to
            property.
         2. Statements, gestures, or expressions that communicate a direct or indirect
            threat of physical or psychological harm.
         3. Violent behavior such as carrying out threats or threatening behavior.

IV. PROCEDURES
   Procedures A       Staff Response to Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access
                      Items

V. ATTACHMENTS
   Attachment A       OSH Contraband and Limited Access Items
   Attachment B       OSH Staff Personal Items Access List
 Subject:                                                                  Policy Number: 8.044
             Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
 Date:
             January 15, 2025                                                       P AGE 7 OF 8

   Attachment C       Policy & Procedure Reference Sheet

VI. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   1.003 Incident Reporting
   3.002 Electrical Equipment and Resource Conservation
   4.010 Patient Funds
   4.018 OSH Purchase and Maintenance
   5.001 Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace
   5.007 ADA and Reasonable Accommodation in Employment
   6.006 “On-grounds Off-grounds Movement”
   6.030 Electronic Device and Internet Access
   6.047 Patient Food
   6.058 Admissions
   7.001 Mail and Packages for Patients
   7.002 Media Access for Patients
   7.005 Patient Rights
   8.014 Room Unit and Treatment Mall Searches
   8.019 Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts and Contraband
   8.024 Tool and Sharp Security
   8.026 Visitors to Patients
   8.027 Weapons on Campus
   8.033 Workplace Violence Prevention
   8.037 Patient Property and Valuables
   8.041 Patient Personal Searches

VII. REFERENCES
   Department of Administrative Services. Weapons in the workplace, 50-010-05. Author.
   Department of Administrative Services. Violence-Free Workplace, 50-010-02. Author.
   Oregon Administrative Rules §§ 309-108-0000 — 309-108-0020.
   Oregon Revised Statute § 162.135.
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 8.044
            Contraband, Prohibited Items, Limited Access Items
Date:
            January 15, 2025                                            P AGE 8 OF 8

  Oregon Revised Statute § 162.185.
  Oregon Revised Statute 426.385.
