                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 4:        Fiscal                                                     POLICY: 4.008

SUBJECT:          Peggy Ross Trust Fund

POINT PERSON:     Director of Volunteer Services

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                     DATE: JULY 25, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                               Minor/technical revision of
                                                           existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. The Peggy Ross Trust Fund was established to provide funding for clinical
      projects that directly benefit patients at Oregon State Hospital (OSH). The
      Volunteer Services Director (Director) is responsible for administering the trust
      funds. This policy guides staff and establishes requirements for the application
      and award process.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
      A. The Director is responsible to establish a common format and specific criteria
         for Peggy Ross Trust Fund proposals each year. The Director must make
         these criteria available well in advance of the submission deadline.
           1. Proposal formats must include:
              a. identification of the need or problem addressed;
              b. definition of the goals and objectives;
              c. definition of the goals and objectives;
              d. description of expected benefits and proposed impact upon patient
                 care;
              e. definition of the project methods which indicate the goals and
                 objectives are addressed by the project;
              f. definition of the method and criteria used to evaluate the project at the
                 end of the specified project time; and
Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 4.008
             Peggy Ross Trust Fund
Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 4

              g. description of needed materials or services and estimated costs.
           2. On March 31 of each year, the Director must send a reminder of the
              proposal submission deadline to all program directors and discipline
              directors. The reminder must include the approximate projected dollar
              amount expected to be available that year, the project proposal criteria,
              and the proposal format for that year.
  B. A department, a program, or an individual may submit a proposal.
        1. Proposals submitted must demonstrate direct benefit to OSH patients.
        2. Proposals must follow the format and criteria established by the Director.
           a. Proposals involving separate expenditures over several months must
              include a schedule of expenditures as part of the proposal.
           b. Proposals which anticipate follow-up awards in subsequent years must
              indicate anticipated follow-up awards in the first year proposal (NOTE:
              such proposals must be submitted each subsequent year).
        3. Proposals must be submitted no later than May 1.
        4. The money requested in a proposal may be all or part of the available funds
           for the period.
  C. The Director must consider all proposals and recommend funding select
     proposals to Superintendent’s Cabinet.
        1. On June 1, the Director must submit the proposals recommended for funding
           to the Superintendent’s Cabinet.
        2. Superintendent’s Cabinet will review the presented proposals and select
           projects to fund.
        3. The number of proposals funded will depend on the quality of proposals and
           amount of funds available.
        4. The Director must notify the authors of approved funded projects by memo.
           a. The memo must include instructions that monies awarded are available
              no later than June 30.
           b. Sponsoring directors must be copied on the memo.
  D. The Business Office must provide the Director with the amount of interest
     available for consideration on or near January 1.
        1. The amount available is the interest accrued from January 1 through
           December 31 of the previous year.
Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 4.008
             Peggy Ross Trust Fund
Date:
             July 25, 2024                                                P AGE 3 OF 4

        2. The amount available may not exceed the interest earned that year, less any
           necessary expenses that may occur in managing the fund.
        3. Monies awarded must be available no later than June 30.
        4. Unexpended or unobligated balances from the prior year must revert to the
           fund and become a part of the principal on December 31 of the following year.
        5. The Business Office must establish other necessary monetary procedures to
           verify proper distribution and use of funds.
  E. Purchases are subject to all state purchasing rules. Items purchased with these
  trust funds become hospital property unless otherwise indicated.
        1. The Director must keep track of the awards – including when partial orders
           are involved.
        2. Purchases made under Peggy Ross Trust funds must originate with an
           approved request for purchase (RFP) clearly marked as to the source of
           funding.
        3. The RFP must be first approved by the Director.
        4. In the case of purchases of services, such as entertainment, a Personal
           Services Contract must be executed in accordance with purchasing rules.
           a. A “Contract Request” form MSC 0118 must be completed and submitted
              to the Director instead of a RFP.
           b. After approval by the Director, the Purchasing Department must forward
              the RFP to the Office of Contracts and Administration for execution of a
              Personal Services Contract.
        5. Projects must be completed and awarded funds expended by November 30
           of the current year following the award.
        6. For those projects which are not completed by November 30, the sponsor
           must provide the Director with a status report on December 1. The report
           must include a revised estimate of the completion date.
  F. The program directors or discipline directors who have sponsored approved
     proposals must monitor the projects until the project is completed.
  G. If notification dates indicated in this policy are not able to be met due to a
     legitimate reason for delay, notification dates may be adjusted to accommodate
     the delay as long as funds are awarded and expended as intended by
     November 30 of the same year.
  H. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
     rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
 Subject:                                                            Policy Number: 4.008
              Peggy Ross Trust Fund
 Date:
              July 25, 2024                                                 P AGE 4 OF 4

         and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
         standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
         policy is more restrictive.
   I. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   Oregon state hospital request for purchase, MSC 0114OSH [Oregon State Hospital
   form]

V. REFERENCES
   Contract request, MSC 0118 [Shared Services form]
