                   OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:      STR Process                                           POLICY : 8.039

POINT PERSON:      Director of Security

APPROVED:          Interim Superintendent                         DATE: JULY 17, 2024

SELECT ONE:




  Responsible                                   Procedures
 Person/Group

Security           1. Arrive at patient’s home unit to pick up a .370 patient, GEI or
                      EDP patient without off-grounds privileges and bring to the
                      designated sallyport for transport.
                   2. Follow established Security Department protocols and
                      associated policy.
                   3. Upon return to the unit Transport staff who removed the STRs
                      are responsible to report to the UNIT RN that the patient was
                      wearing STR’s.
                   4. This must be documented per OSH Security Protocol 6.015.
Nursing            1. Contact Reception or Junction City Access Control for any
                      unanticipated or emergency transport of a .370 patient or a GEI
                      or EDP patient without off-grounds privileges.
                   2. If alternate restraint devices are necessary, follow provisions of
                      OSH Policy and Procedure 6.003, “Seclusion and Restraints.”
Registered nurse    1. If STRs are medically contraindicated, make a recommendation
                       to law enforcement or OSH Security personnel.
                    2. Document the recommendation in the patient’s medical record.
                    3. On patients return to OSH complete skin assessment and
                       document in a progress note.
                   On hospital level-of-care (HLOC) units, the RN may assign the
                    Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) to collect skin integrity data and
                    may use that data partially or wholly in their assessment.
                   On Secure Residential Treatment Facility (SRTF) units, the LPN
                    may independently collect skin integrity data and must
                    communicate the use of STRs and collected data to the covering
                    RN.
PROCEDURES A: STR Process                                         POLICY NUMBER: 8.039
DATE:             July 17, 2024                                                 Page 2 of 2

Physician/Nurse   1. If STRs are medically contraindicated, make a recommendation
Practitioner         to law enforcement personnel.
                  2. Document the recommendation in the patient’s medical record.
                  3. If alternate restraint devices are necessary, follow provisions of
                     OSH Policy and Procedure 6.003.
                  4. In the event a civilly committed or voluntarily admitted patient
                     experiences a behavioral emergency during a medical
                     emergency and off-grounds transportation is necessary,
                     consider ambulatory restraints per OSH Policy and Procedure
                     6.003.
Medical Clinic    Coordinate scheduled medical appointments with law enforcement
                  and the patient’s unit.
Reception /       Coordinate with law enforcement for unanticipated or emergency
                  transport of a .370 patient or a GEI or EDP patient without off-grounds
Junction City
                  privileges.
Access Control
