                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 7:        Patient Rights                                              POLICY: 7.012

SUBJECT:          Patient Responsibilities and
                  Family Responsibilities

POINT PERSON:     Director of Ombuds and Family
                  Services

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                      DATE: JULY 25, 2024


                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:




 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) recognizes that health care delivery is enhanced by
      the involvement of the patient, appropriate to the patient’s skill level, as a partner
      in the health care process. To facilitate the process, OSH can expect reasonable
      and responsible behavior and involvement on the part of a patient and the
      patient’s family members. This policy outlines the expected responsibilities of
      patients, families, and OSH staff’s communication of these responsibilities.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH will provide education about patient responsibilities and family
      responsibilities to a patient, the patient’s guardian, and the patient’s designated
      family in accordance with OSH Policy and Procedure 6.028, “Education for
      Patients,” and this policy. Such education must include the patient and family’s
      role in helping to facilitate safe care to the patient.
   B. OSH will provide resources or programs to support collaborative patient
      communication and problem-solving resources while the patient resides at OSH.
   C. Staff will inform a patient and guardian of the patient’s responsibilities.
      1. Staff must review and discuss patient responsibilities with the patient during
         the admission process and as needed thereafter.
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 7.012
           Patient Responsibilities and Family
           Responsibilities
Date:      July 25, 2024                                                       P AGE 2 OF 5

     2. The review must be documented on the “Patient Responsibilities” form.
         a. The patient and guardian are requested to sign the form.
         b. If the patient is unable to sign the form, staff must note the information on
            the form and authenticate the form.
         c. The completed form must be filed in the patient’s medical record.
         d. A copy must be given to the patient and guardian.
  D. Patient responsibilities include, but are not limited to the following:
     1. providing accurate and complete information about present symptoms, past
        illnesses and hospitalizations, medications, and other matters related to the
        patient’s health to the best of the patient’s knowledge;
     2. reporting perceived risks in the provision of care, unexpected changes in the
        patient’s condition, and providing feedback about care needs and
        expectations, which may include but is not limited to completing a Mental
        Health Advance Directive;
     3. communicating clinical concerns or questions in person to staff, as clinical
        concerns communicated by any other means (e.g., email, text, voicemail) are
        not assured of being received;
     4. asking questions when the patient does not understand what the patient has
        been told about care or treatment, or asking about expectations regarding
        follow-up care or treatment;
     5. following instructions and the treatment care plan (TCP) developed in
        collaboration with the interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT).
         a. The patient is encouraged to express any concerns they have about their
            ability to follow the TCP.
         b. Every reasonable effort consistent with best practices will be made to
            modify a patient’s TCP to the patient’s desires and needs.
     6. accepting that there may be natural outcomes if the patient is unable to follow
        the TCP or cues given by staff;
     7. following rules and regulations concerning patient care, safety and security,
        and conduct;
     8. showing respect and consideration toward other patients, staff, and visitors,
        helping control noise and environmental disturbances, and respecting other
        patient and OSH property; and
Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 7.012
           Patient Responsibilities and Family
           Responsibilities
Date:      July 25, 2024                                                    P AGE 3 OF 5

     9. meeting financial commitments as able.
  E. Staff will provide information on family responsibilities listed below to family.
     Family responsibilities will be made available via:
     1. Ombuds and Family Services.
     2. the OSH website,
     3. the Family Guidebook,
     4. Ombuds and Family Services information boards in campus reception areas,
        and
     5. Patient Financial Services (financial information only).
  F. OSH requests family enhancement and supports their involvement as a partner
     in the health care process by:
     1. providing accurate and complete information about present symptoms, past
        illnesses and hospitalizations, medications, and other matters related to the
        patient’s health to the best of the person’s knowledge;
     2. reporting perceived risks in the provision of care, unexpected changes in the
        patient’s condition, and providing feedback about care needs and
        expectations;
     3. communicating clinical concerns or questions;
     4. asking questions when family does not understand what has been
        communicated about care or treatment, or asking about expectations
        regarding follow-up care or treatment;
     5. expressing any concerns about the patient’s ability to follow the TCP;
     6. accepting natural outcomes if the family does not follow instructions given by
        staff;
  G. OSH expects family to support patients in the health care process by:
     1. following rules and regulations including, but not limited to: patient care,
        safety, security, contraband, visitation, and conduct;
     2. showing respect and consideration toward patients, staff, and other visitors,
        including being aware of patient needs when interacting, helping control noise
        and environmental disturbances, and respecting patient and OSH property;
     3. meeting financial commitments when acting as fiduciary for patient’s finances;
 Subject:                                                         Policy Number: 7.012
             Patient Responsibilities and Family
             Responsibilities
 Date:       July 25, 2024                                                       P AGE 4 OF 5

       4. assisting in maintaining health of patients, staff, and visitors by:
          a. getting recommended vaccinations (e.g., flu)
          b. arranging visits when physically well; and
          c. arranging visits when emotionally calm.
   H. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   I. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. "Family" in this policy means a person or persons who play a significant role in
      an individual's life. A family is a group of two or more persons united by blood or
      adoptive, marital, domestic partnership, or other legal ties. The family may also
      be a person or persons not legally related to the individual (such as a significant
      other, friend, or caregiver) whom the individual personally considers to be family.
      A family member may be the surrogate decision-maker if authorized to make
      care decisions for the individual should he or she lose decision-making capacity
      or choose to delegate decision making to another.
   B. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
   C. “Guardian” has the same meaning as the definition in OSH Policy 6.044,
      “Guardianship and Conservatorship”.

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.058 Admissions
   8.044 Contraband and prohibited items
   6.028 Education for patients
   6.044 Guardianship and conservatorship
   6.011 Interdisciplinary treatment team
   7.005 Patient rights
   7.006 Patient grievances
Subject:                                                             Policy Number: 7.012
            Patient Responsibilities and Family
            Responsibilities
Date:       July 25, 2024                                                        P AGE 5 OF 5

  7.008 Patient abuse or mistreatment allegation reporting
  8.026 Visitors to patients

V. REFERENCES
  DHS OHA 060-041

  Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2024). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
  for hospitals, RI 02.01.01. Oakbrook Terrace, IL: Author.

  Oregon Administrative Rules §§ 309-106-0000 — 309-106-0020
