                     OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                          POLICY
SECTION 1:       Administration                                              POLICY:1.010

SUBJECT:         Research at Oregon State
                 Hospital

POINT PERSON:    Research Committee Chair

APPROVED:        Sara Walker, MD                                      DATE: MAY 15, 2024

                 Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:      New policy                               Minor/technical revision of
                                                          existing policy

                 Reaffirmation of existing policy         Major revision of existing policy

PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
A. This policy establishes and defines the function of the Research Committee (RC) at
   Oregon State Hospital (OSH). The purpose of the RC is to review and promote
   internal research, recruit external research, ensure patient and staff privacy, protect
   patient rights, and guide research through the OSH system.
B. This policy applies to all staff including employees, volunteers, trainees, interns,
   contractors, vendors, and other state employees assigned to work at OSH.

I. POLICY
A. All research conducted at Oregon State Hospital (OSH) must be reviewed by the
   OSH Research Committee (RC) and the Oregon Health Authority (OHA)
   Institutional Review Board (IRB). Both the RC and OHA IRB approval must be
   secured before commencing the research study at OSH.
B. The RC is responsible for determining whether a particular research study is
   appropriate and feasible for OSH.
C. Any IRB authorized by the RC to review a project must have a current Federal-wide
   Assurance, federal registration through the Department of Health and Human
   Services, and a signed authorization agreement with OSH.
D. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
   rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services, Shared Services, and Oregon
   Health Authority policies; and relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations
   supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
E. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related procedures may be subject to
   disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
 S UBJECT :    Research at OSH                                P OLICY N UMBER : 1.010

    D ATE :    M AY 15, 2024                                              P AGE 2 OF 2


II. DEFINITIONS

   A. “Research,” for the purpose of this policy, means a systematic investigation
      including research development, testing and evaluation designed to develop or
      contribute to generalizable knowledge based on data collected from OSH staff or
      patients. For the purposes of OSH, research does not include activities such as
      program evaluation or quality improvement data collection and analysis, unless
      the expressed purpose of that activity is to contribute to the generalizable
      knowledge through publication or other means.

   B. “Institutional Review Board” means a committee that has been formally
      designated to approve, monitor, and review research involving humans with the
      aim to protect the rights and welfare of the research subjects.

   C. “Human subjects” for the purpose of this policy includes patients and health care
      personnel (HCP) who participate in research at OSH.
   D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

PROCEDURES
Procedures A          Research Requests



RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   OSH Policy 1.014 Data Governance
   OSH Policy 2.008 Privacy and Security of Patient Information



REFERENCES
Oregon Administrative Rule § 943-014-0000 — 943-014-0465.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2021, June 29). Additional requirement –
    31. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
