                 OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                               POLICY ATTACHMENT
PROCEDURES A:     Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM)                  POLICY : 8.028
                  Procedures

POINT PERSON:     Director of Occupational Health and Safety

APPROVED:         Interim Superintendent                        DATE: JULY 31, 2024

SELECT ONE:                                         Minor/technical revision of
                     New policy attachment
                                                    existing policy attachment
                     Reaffirmation of existing      Major revision of existing
                     policy attachment              policy attachment



I. ILSM PROCEDURES
  A. Whenever any life safety system or equipment is out of service or is incapable of
     operating as designed or per standards due to unplanned hazardous or abnormal
     conditions (e.g., power outage or flooding) and it cannot be immediately
     corrected, the following processes must occur:
     1. Staff must report the outage to Facilities and Safety Departments
     2. The Safety Director or Superintendent must assign an impairment coordinator
        from the safety or Facility department to comply with requirements for
        reporting, coordinating, and documenting ILSM.
     3. The designated impairment coordinator must immediately evaluate the
        situation for impact on exiting, compartmentation, fire detection and response
        systems, ignition sources, storage debris, and other potential hazards;
        determine its significance per NFPA requirements; and establish a relevant
        ILSM plan.
        a. The impairment coordinator must document the findings on the approved
           Interim Life Safety Assessment form (see attached).
           i. When ILSM are indicated, the designated impairment coordinator
                must use the Interim Life Safety Assessment form to identify code
                deficiencies, construction hazards, and the administrative actions
                required to compensate for the deficiencies.
           ii. The impairment coordinator must address each of the required
                actions identified on the Interim Life Safety Assessment form and
                document findings, including frequencies for testing, training,
                monitoring, and evaluation.
PROCEDURES A: ILSM Procedures                                   POLICY NUMBER : 8.028
DATE:             July 31, 2024                                             Page 2 of 4


        b. At a minimum, ILSM must include the following assessment and plans:
           i.    associated hazards;
           ii.   equivalent exiting, if applicable; and
           iii. protection of all OSH occupants from fire and smoke by establishing a
                temporary and equivalent alarm and smoke detection system.
        c. If indicated, ILSM must:
           i.    provide additional exits to ensure egress,
           ii.   ensure access for emergency responders,
           iii. provide for additional fire protection,
           iv. include “Just in Time Refresher Fire Response” integrating changes to
               exit points and temporary exit routes,
           v.    provide for increased staffing to perform surveillance of the buildings
                 and grounds through a fire watch,
           vi. build smoke-tight temporary construction partitions or fire barriers,
           vii. provide additional emergency lighting within the means of egress,
           viii. temporarily revise the hospital’s emergency evacuation plans, or
           ix. remove debris from the affected area.
    4. The designated impairment coordinator must immediately notify OSFM and
       the local fire department (i.e., city or county fire responders) of findings and
       proposed ILSM. Other licensing agencies may be notified dependent on the
       reason for ILSM implementation.
        a. The impairment coordinator must contact the OSFM via email or phone
           and provide the name of the facility, location, nature of emergency
           condition, beginning time and date of the impairment requiring ILSM, and
           proposed ILSM.
        b. OSFM or the local fire department may modify the plan as necessary.
        c. The impairment coordinator must adjust the ILSM plan if directed by
           OSFM or the local fire department.
        d. Documentation of ILSM plans must be in writing and be approved by the
           OSFM prior to implementation in accordance with Orgon Fire Code
           (2022), Section 901.7.
    5. ILSM must be communicated to all appropriate persons at OSH.
        a. The impairment coordinator must submit written recommendations to the
           Safety Director and Superintendent or their designee.
PROCEDURES A: ILSM Procedures                                   POLICY NUMBER : 8.028
DATE:            July 31, 2024                                               Page 3 of 4

        b. The impairment coordinator must alert and inform the supervisors in
           affected areas of the impairment and implemented ILSM.
        c. The written plan must be submitted to the OSH Environment of Care
           Committee for informational and documentation purposes.
    6. The ILSM plan must be implemented immediately after notification to the
       parties listed above has been completed. ILSM documentation must include
       the ISLM start time and date and its end time and date.
    7. The impairment coordinator or designee must assemble necessary tools and
       materials at the impairment site.
    8. The impairment coordinator must implement a tag impairment system.
        a. A tag must be used to indicate that a system, or portion thereof, has been
           removed from service.
        b. The tag must be posted at each fire department connection, system
           control valve, fire alarm control unit, security office, Access Control, and
           fire command center indicating which system, or part thereof, has been
           removed from service.
    9. When an impaired fire protection system or equipment is restored to normal
       working order, the impairment coordinator must:
        a. verify necessary inspections and test have been conducted to ensure
           affected systems are operational,
        b. gather all inspection or test reports from third-party vendors,
        c. advise supervisors of affected areas that protection is restored,
        d. advise the local fire department, OSFM, and other notified licensing
           agencies that protection is restored,
        e. remove the impairment tag, and
        f. document required information, including the time and date the ILSM
           ended.
    10. All documentation, including tags, must be completed and filed.
        Documentation must be maintained for a minimum of five years, unless
        otherwise indicated by external regulations.
   B. The impairment coordinator must notify OSFM and the local fire department
      whenever required fire protection systems are out of service for four or more
      hours or when a sprinkler system is out for ten or more hours in a 24-hour
PROCEDURES A: ILSM Procedures                                 POLICY NUMBER : 8.028
DATE:              July 31, 2024                                          Page 4 of 4

        period during planned outages or non-emergency conditions for scheduled
        system testing or maintenance.
    1. Planned outages or non-emergency conditions must be authorized by the
       designated impairment coordinator.
    2. Before authorization is given, the impairment coordinator must inspect the
       areas or buildings involved for impact on exiting, compartmentation fire
       detection and response system, ignition sources, storage debris, and other
       potential hazards, and determine risks using the most current ILSM
       Assessment form.
    3. The building must either be evacuated, or an approved fire watch must be
       provided for all occupants left unprotected by the outage until the condition
       has been corrected. Other ILSM must also be implemented as appropriate.
    4. Processes for emergency conditions or unplanned outages processes must
       be completed as indicated above in this policy.
