                         OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                             POLICY
  SECTION 8:         Safety, Security, Emergency                                POLICY: 8.024
                     Management

  SUBJECT:           Tool and Sharp Security

  POINT PERSON:      Facilities Director

  APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                                   DATE: JULY 21, 2022

                     Superintendent

  SELECT ONE:                                            Minor/technical revision of existing
                     New policy
                                                         policy
                     Reaffirmation of existing policy    Major revision of existing policy

I.    PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
      A. At Oregon State Hospital (OSH), patients have the right to receive care in a safe
         setting as directed by 42 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) § 482.13(c)2. For
         the safety of staff and patients, this policy establishes a system of tool and sharp
         accountability at OSH.
      B. This policy applies to all staff.

II.   POLICY
      A. Any instrument designed for repair, craft, personal hygiene, culinary use, or any
         other instrument which has a high probability of being used as a weapon against
         self or others or as an escape device must be closely monitored. Weapons are
         as defined in OSH policy 8.027, “Weapons in the Workplace.”
      B. Each treatment unit and treatment area must have assigned secure areas for the
         storage of tools and sharps used by patients or on the unit.
         1. Each secure storage area must be designed with a shadow board for each
            tool and sharp placed in the storage area.
         2. The OSH Security department must provide consultation, training, and
            assistance for the setup and implementation of all new tool or sharp storage
            areas.
      C. Each tool or sharp storage area must have a process for tool and sharp
         accountability, which must include a “Tool/Sharp Sign-Out Log” (Attachment A).
SUBJECT: Tool and Sharp Security                                   POLICY NUMBER: 8.024

DATE:      July 21, 2022                                                      PAGE 2 OF 4

     1. Staff must use the “Tool/Sharp Sign-Out Log” when checking items in or out
        for patients and staff. The following must be included on the log:
        a. Date
        b. Patient/staff name
        c. Description of tool/sharp
        d. Time in/out
        e. Staff initials
     2. Whenever a patient signs out a tool or sharp, an identification marker for that
        patient must be placed in the location of that tool or sharp.
  D. Each treatment unit and treatment area must complete an inventory at the end of
     treatment group or before the end of each shift and physically account for all
     issued tools and sharps.
  E. Each patient care unit must complete a tools/sharps inventory by unit staff during
     shift change over. At this time, lead nurses will:
     1. Verify that the inventory is complete and indicate that all tools/sharps are
        accounted for, and
     2. If a tool or sharp is missing, the lead nurse will initiate the process for a
        missing tool/sharp as described in this policy.
  F. Missing tools or sharps must be immediately reported to:
     1. Manager
     2. Security Department
     3. Program Director
  G. Staff must confer with their manager, OSH Security staff, and Program Director
     about next steps to locate missing tools or sharps, which may include, but is not
     limited to:
     1. 15-minute unit checks
     2. Patient personal search based on reasonable suspicion, per OSH policy
        8.041, “Patient Personal Searches, and OSH policy 6.061, “Transgender
        Gender Non-Conforming Treatment.”
     3. Room or unit search, per OSH policy 8.014, “Room Unit Treatment Mall
        Searches.”
       SUBJECT: Tool and Sharp Security                                   POLICY NUMBER: 8.024

       DATE:      July 21, 2022                                                     PAGE 3 OF 4

            4. Video review to search for the missing tools or sharps.
            5. Follow up with staff in treatment or patient care areas.
         H. Staff must complete an incident report per OSH policy 1.003, “Incident Reporting”
            for a missing tool and/or sharps item. OSH Security department staff must
            complete required security-related documentation for missing tools and sharps
            and any security-related documentation related to OSH policy 1.003.
         I. OSH Facilities department and contract staff must check in with the nurse in
            charge of the unit before beginning a work project on a unit.
            1. Information provided to the nurse in charge must include, but is not limited to:
                a. A clear definition of the reason for the repair or maintenance staff will be
                   on the unit,
                b. The types and amounts of tools on the unit, and
                c. The estimated length of time that repair or maintenance staff will be on the
                   unit.
            2. The nurse in charge may assign staff to monitor the work area to provide
               security and assist OSH Facilities department staff with general security and
               safety.
            3. If possible, patient access to work areas may be restricted or limited. If an
               area cannot be adequately secured, patients may be temporarily relocated to
               another designated secure area.
         J. Facilities department or contract staff must survey all project areas for security and
            safety before any work starts. OSH Facilities department or contract staff must
            secure all tools and equipment before leaving the project area unattended and
            before patients are allowed to return to the area.
         K. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) follows all applicable regulations, including federal
            and state statutes and rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services
            (DAS), Shared Services, and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and
            relevant accreditation standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of
            this policy unless this policy is more restrictive.
         L. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
            may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III.     DEFINITIONS
         A. “Secure storage area” for the purposes of this policy means a locked room or
            storage cabinet.
       SUBJECT: Tool and Sharp Security                                       POLICY NUMBER: 8.024

       DATE:       July 21, 2022                                                          PAGE 4 OF 4

         B. “Shadow board” means a secure area that houses tools or sharps and provides
            visual verification via red paint, ink, cut-out, or other similar means to identify
            whether a tool or sharp is accounted for.
         C. “Sharps” means any sharp or pointed instrument (e.g., scissors, knives, razors,
            saws) that have a high probability of being used as a weapon, as defined in OSH
            policy 8.027, against self or others or as an escape device.
         D. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
            and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).
         E. “Tool” means any instrument designed for repair, cleaning, handicrafts, or
            culinary use that has a high probability of being used as a weapon, as defined in
            OSH policy 8.027, against self or others or as an escape device.
         F. “Tools and sharps accountability” means a system that tracks and monitors patient
            use of tools and sharps. The system includes documentation of issuance and
            return.

IV.      PROCEDURES

 V.      ATTACHMENTS
         Attachment A         Tool/Sharp Sign-Out Log

VI.      RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
         5.016 Inmate Work Force
         8.014 Room, Unit, and Treatment Mall Searches
         8.019 Staff Response to Alleged Criminal Acts and Contraband
         8.027 Weapons on Campus
         8.038 Code Blue Medical Emergency
         8.041 Personal Searches
         8.044 Contraband

VII.     REFERENCES
         42 CFR § 482.13c2.

         Joint Commission Resources, Inc. (2019). The joint commission comprehensive accreditation manual
             for hospitals, EC.01.01.01 – 02.01.01. Author.
