                      OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                           POLICY
SECTION 6:        Patient Care                                              POLICY: 6.042

SUBJECT:          Short-Term Assessment of Risk
                  and Treatability (START)

POINT PERSON:     Chief of Psychology

APPROVED:         Sara Walker, MD                                    DATE: JULY 31, 2024

                  Interim Superintendent

SELECT ONE:       New policy                             Minor/technical revision of
                                                         existing policy

                  Reaffirmation of existing policy       Major revision of existing policy


 I. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
   A. This policy establishes Oregon State Hospital (OSH)’s use of the Short-Term
      Assessment of Risk and Treatability (START) tool.
   B. This policy applies to all staff.

II. POLICY
   A. OSH will assess a patient’s risk to inform treatment planning. OSH will use the
      START tool to guide decisions for a patient’s supervision levels, including but not
      limited to changes to privileges. Assessed risk will include risk of violence, self-
      harm, suicide, unauthorized leave, substance abuse, self-neglect, being
      victimized, and other case-specific risks.
   B. A START must be completed on all patients committed to OSH, with the possible
      exception of patients with pending legal charges and/or committed under Oregon
      Revised Statute 161.370 or 161.365.
      1. Note: If a patient is under dual jurisdiction, i.e., a patient who is civilly
         committed with pending charges, a START will not be completed. The
         psychology department must assess patient commitment status to determine
         if a START is required.
   C. The interdisciplinary treatment team (IDT) is responsible to collaboratively score
      the START and its supporting information. The START must be completed as
      delineated in the START Manual (Webster et al., 2009) and updated after any
      significant event indicating a substantial change in the patient’s current or
      anticipated level of risk.
 Subject:                                                           Policy Number: 6.042
             Short-Term Assessment of Risk and Treatability
             (START)
 Date:
             July 31, 2024                                                 P AGE 2 OF 3

   D. The psychologist or another licensed independent practitioner appointed by the
      Chief of Psychology is responsible to coordinate START scoring discussions. At
      minimum, three IDT members must be present to score the START. (Other staff
      may submit their clinical impressions to the IDT.)
   E. Staff scoring the START must immediately initiate necessary safety and risk
      management measures if one or more of the three T.H.R.E.A.T. (Threat of Harm
      that is Real, Enactable, Acute and Targeted) boxes is checked.
   F. Only the Chief of Psychology may grant an exception to scoring the START
      without a psychologist present or to having fewer than three IDT members
      present.
   G. The risk levels delineated in the START are invalid after 90 days from completion
      of the START.
   H. The unit psychologist or designated staff will complete the narrative sections of
      the START following patient admission. The IDT will then collaboratively score
      the START by 60 days of admission.
   I. If a patient is transferred to a new unit within 21 calendar days from admission,
      the receiving IDT must collaborate with the sending IDT to complete the START.
   J. A START must be completed before Risk Review or a Conditional Release
      hearing. The IDT referring a patient for Risk Review or Conditional Release
      hearing must complete the START unless the patient was transferred to the
      referring IDT’s unit within seven days before the referral to Risk Review or
      Conditional Release hearing. In such cases, the receiving IDT must collaborate
      with the sending IDT to complete the START.
   K. A START must be completed whenever new risks are identified.
   L. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
      rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services,
      and Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation
      standards. Such regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this
      policy is more restrictive.
   M. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
      may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

III. DEFINITIONS
   A. “Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors,
      and other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

IV. RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
   6.001 Patient Transfers
Subject:                                                                      Policy Number: 6.042
             Short-Term Assessment of Risk and Treatability
             (START)
Date:
             July 31, 2024                                                             P AGE 3 OF 3

  6.006 On-grounds and Off-grounds Movement
  6.010 Enhanced Supervision
  6.024 Transportation and Supervision Ratios
  6.029 Risk Review and Privileges
  6.058 Admissions

V. REFERENCES
  Oregon Administrative Rule § 309-120-0080.
  Oregon Revised Statute §§ 161.327 — 161.328.
  Oregon Revised Statute § 420.505.
  Oregon Revised Statute § 426.220.
  Oregon Revised Statute § 426.225.
  Oregon Revised Statutes §§ 426.650 — 426.675.
  Oregon Revised Statute § 426.701.
  Webster, C.D., Martin, M., Brink, J., Nicholls, T.L., Desmarais, S.l. (2009). Short-term assessment of
     risk and treatability (START) (Version 1.1). British Columbia Mental Health and Addiction
     Services.
