                       OREGON STATE HOSPITAL
                                            POLICY
SECTION 4:         Fiscal                                                          POLICY:4.005

SUBJECT:           Visitor Cottage and Visitor Travel
                   Fund

POINT PERSON:      Ombuds and Family Services

APPROVED:          Dolores Matteucci                                  DATE: DECEMBER 8, 2023

                   Superintendent

SELECT ONE:                                                     Minor/technical revision of
                   New policy
                                                                existing policy

                   Reaffirmation of existing policy             Major revision of existing policy


PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
A. Oregon State Hospital (OSH) recognizes the importance of visitation with friends
   and family to a patient’s recovery. The designated visitors cottage (Cottage) and the
   Visitor Fund exist to support visitation efforts of individuals experiencing hardship,
   with limited resources or are as outlined by this policy.
B. This policy applies to all staff and visitors to patients.

POLICY
A. To encourage visitation of visitors who live 150 miles or more from the
   hospital, OSH may provide limited lodging in the designated visitor’s
   cottage (Cottage) on the Salem Campus for patient friends and family
   members who are approved visitors in accordance with provisions of
   OSH Policy and Procedure 8.026, “Visitors to Patients.”
B. Each visitor who uses the Cottage must follow the “Oregon State
   Hospital Visitor Cottage Conditions for Use” (Conditions for Use) in
   Attachment A.
C. A visitor may request a reservation to stay in the Cottage by contacting
   Ombuds and Family Services.
           a. If staff receive a request for a cottage reservation, refer to the
                request process outlined in Procedures A.
           b. A reservation must be requested no later than five normal
               business days in advance of the stay unless an exception has
 Subject:                                                          Policy Number: 4.005
              Visitor Cottage and Visitor Travel Fund
 Date:
              December 8, 2023                                                  P AGE 2 OF 3

               been approved by Ombuds and Family Services.
D. A request for exception to any part of this policy must be approved by
   OSH Ombuds and Family Services before the exception is allowed.
            a. The Security Director or Designee is responsible for all after-hours
                requests as outlined in Procedure A.
E. There is a $10 per night room fee for visitors, this may be waived through
   the exception process and at the discretion of Ombuds and Family
   Services or their designee. See Procedures A for more information.
F. A visitor who violates any part of the Conditions for Use or this policy may
   lose privileges to stay in the cottage, may be restricted from visiting, or
   may be referred to appropriate law enforcement.
G. Prior to scheduling a reservation, a visit must already be approved by
   OSH security/reception. The Visitor Cottage is only available for approved
   OSH visitors.
H. Maintenance of the cottage shall be completed after every reservation
   and in response to any notice of damage (Procedure A).
I. The Travel Fund is an administrative fund intended to assist with the travel
   costs for OSH patient’s friends and families to visit at OSH.
            a. Eligibility requirements, application process and fund use are
                outlined in Procedures B.

J. OSH follows all applicable regulations, including federal and state statutes and
   rules; Oregon Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Shared Services, and
   Oregon Health Authority (OHA) policies; and relevant accreditation standards. Such
   regulations supersede the provisions of this policy unless this policy is more
   restrictive.
K. Staff who fail to comply with this policy or related policy attachments or protocols
   may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.

DEFINITIONS
“After hours” for the purposes of this policy means hours that fall outside of normal
business hours.
“Approved visitor list” for the purposes of this policy refers to patient visitors whose OSH
visitor application has been approved.
“Fund Administrator” for the purposes of this policy means OSH Ombuds and Family
Services as designated by the Director of Legal Affairs.
 Subject:                                                                             Policy Number: 4.005
                Visitor Cottage and Visitor Travel Fund
 Date:
                December 8, 2023                                                                  P AGE 3 OF 3

“Health care personnel (HCP)” for the purposes of this policy means the population of
health care workers working in the OSH healthcare setting. HCP might include, but is
not limited to: physicians, nurses, nursing assistants, therapists, technicians, dental
personnel, pharmacists, laboratory personnel, students and volunteers, trainees,
contractual staff not employed by the facility, and persons not directly involved in patient
care (e.g., clerical, dietary, housekeeping, maintenance).
“Normal business hours” mean Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, except for
weekday holidays.
“Staff” includes employees, volunteers, trainees, interns, contractors, vendors, and
other state employees assigned to work at Oregon State Hospital (OSH).

PROCEDURES
    Procedures A           Visitor Cottage Requests and Maintenance
    Procedures B           Visitor Travel Fund

ATTACHMENTS
    Attachment A           OSH Visitor Cottage Condition for Use

RELATED OSH POLICIES AND PROTOCOLS
    OSH Environmental Services Protocol P.007 “Cleaning OSH Visitor(s) Cottage”
    OSH Reception Protocol 3.011 “Visitor Cottage for Patient Families”

REFERENCES
Oregon Administrative Rule § 125‐075‐0015.

Oregon Administrative Rule §§ 309‐106‐0000 – 309‐106‐0020.

Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Criminal offender information access, 8.004. Author.

Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Identification badges, 8.007. Author. Oregon
State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Patient and family responsibilities, 7.012. Author.

Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Patient property and valuables, 8.037. Author. Oregon State
Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Patient rights, 7.005. Author.
Oregon State Hospital Policy and Procedure Manual. Photographing of patients, 7.003. Author.
