OREGON MILITARY DEPARTMENT                                        NUMBER: AGP-99.300.05


ADJUTANT GENERAL PERSONNEL                                        EFFECTIVE DATE: December 1, 2025


SUBJECT: Criminal Background Checks


     APPLICABILITY: This policy applies to individuals as defined in Oregon Administrative Rule
     (OAR) 125-007-0200 (Criminal Records Check Rules) through 125-007-0330, Oregon Revised
     Statutes (ORS) 181A.195 (Criminal Records Check), and ORS 396.332 (Authority of Oregon
     Military Department to require fingerprints for criminal records check). This applies to any state
     of Oregon Military Department (OMD) new hire, promotion, demotion, direct appointment, re-
     employment, transfer, volunteer, intern, or temporary hire. It does NOT apply to job rotations or
     developmental assignments unless there is a direct nexus to the job (financial, HR, IT, etc.).

     AUTHORITY/REFERENCE: Guidelines for conducting background checks on Subject
     Individuals pursuant to OAR 125-007-0200 through 125-007-0330, OAR 137-003-0501 through
     137-003-0700, ORS 181A.195, and ORS 396.332.

     PURPOSE: To provide clarification regarding screening of OMD state employees, volunteers,
     job applicants, and others who may be considered as applicants for the agency. The purpose of
     the policy is to ensure that the agency conducts fair criminal records check standards which
     includes case-by-case assessments that are relevant to the position for which an applicant applied
     and reduce risk in the hiring process to an acceptable level. Individuals not complying with this
     policy may be removed from consideration in the hiring process.

     DEFINITIONS:

        1. Criminal Background Check: A review, conducted by the Authorized Designee (AD), of a
        Subject Individual's (SI) criminal offender information, driver and motor vehicles records,
        and other relevant information from inside or outside Oregon's borders obtained from the
        Oregon State Police (OSP), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), or other official entities.

        2. Fitness Determination: A determination made by an AD pursuant to the process
        established in Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 181A.195(10)(c) that an SI is or is not fit to be
        an agency employee in an OMD position.

        3. Law Enforcement Data System (LEDS): Database System maintained by the Criminal
        Justice Information Services (CJIS) division of the OSP, for the purpose of maintaining and
        accessing criminal history files.



        4. Subject Individual (SI):
                                                Page 1 of 5
         A. A person who has applied for and is the final candidate for employment by OMD
            as a state worker.

         B. An OMD state employee who has applied for and is the final candidate for a
            promotion, a transfer, demotion, etc.

         C. A person who is a volunteer or a participant in a program over whom OMD has
            direction and/or control.

         D. Contractors serving in an authorized capacity to access agency information and/or
            information systems.

POLICY GUIDANCE:

  1. Criminal background checks will be conducted on subject individuals pursuant to OAR
     125-007-0200 through OAR 125-007-0330. All SIs will go through the criminal
     background check process following a conditional job offer, promotion, transfer, or
     voluntary demotion or on any current employee, as deemed necessary by the Adjutant
     General Personnel (AGP) Director and as outlined in the Applicability section.

  2. A fingerprint background check will be required on any SI that has lived outside the State
     of Oregon for more than six (6) months in the last three (3) years. A fingerprint
     background check will also be required on personnel who are assigned to the Oregon
     Youth Challenge Program, the STARBASE program, are issued firearms and munitions
     such as Force Protection Officers, have fiscal and purchasing responsibilities as their
     main duties, have Information Technology responsibilities, are within the AGP section,
     or have regular access to restricted areas within a military installation.

  3. Oregon Youth Challenge Program and STARBASE employees/applicants will also have
     their background checked through state/national sex offender registries and child abuse
     repositories.

  4. Criminal information obtained from Law Enforcement Data Systems (LEDS) shall
     remain For Official Use Only and shared with only those persons who have a need to
     know.

  5. Criminal background checks will be conducted as part of the selection process on all
     identified positions after a conditional job offer has been made by the hiring supervisor
     and may also include inquiry deemed by the AGP Director, as needed.

  6. OMD will conduct fingerprint based criminal records checks for employees or applicants
     with direct access or unescorted access to CJIS as required by the OSP.

  7. Whenever unfavorable criminal activity is found, the affected individual shall be
     contacted and given an opportunity to refute or provide additional information prior to
     any adverse action being taken.



                                         Page 2 of 5
8. In making a final fitness determination about a SI, OMD shall consider the following
   factors in relation to information provided by the applicant/employee, any LEDS report
   or criminal offender information obtained through criminal records check, and any false
   statements made by the individual. In accordance with ORS 181A.195, the agency will
   make a fitness determination and will use this information in considering:

       A. The nature of the crime;

       B. The facts that support the conviction or pending indictment or that indicate the
          making of a false statement;

       C. The relevancy, if any, of the crime or the false statement to the specific
          requirements of the SI’s present or proposed position, services, employment,
          license, certification or registration; and

       D. The following intervening circumstances, to the extent that they are relevant to
          the responsibilities and circumstances of the services or employment for which
          the fitness determination is being made, including, but not limited to, the
          following:

                   •   The passage of time since the commission or alleged commission of a
                       crime;
                   •   The age of the individual at the time of the commission or alleged
                       commission of a crime;
                   •   The likelihood of repetition of offenses or of the commission of
                       another crime;
                   •   The subsequent commission of another crime;
                   •   Whether a conviction has been set aside or pardoned, and the legal
                       effect of setting aside the conviction or of a pardon;
                   •   A recommendation of an employer.

9. Current employees and volunteers and those employees with Federal Security
   Clearances, must report, within three (3) business days, any citation, arrest or conviction
   to their immediate supervisor or the AGP Director and a background check will be
   performed to include criminal and driving history.

10. A current regular status employee who is found to have an unfavorable criminal history,
    as it relates to the individual’s employment with OMD, shall be given due process prior
    to dismissal from state service.

11. Criminal history information shall not be retained in an employee’s official personnel file
    and past criminal disclosures should only be provided to Human Resources, not
    management, unless current employees are informing management of any new arrest or
    conviction. The specific information is not shared with the hiring manager – the hiring
    manager only gets notice of pass or fail.

12. The AGP Office shall ensure that information received as a result of the background
    check shall be secured in a file separate from the employee’s official personnel and

                                       Page 3 of 5
   maintained for the duration of 90 days. The background check log and record of pass/fail
   along with the weigh test will be retained electronically until superseded.

13. Any cost associated with criminal background checks shall be the responsibility of each
    program.

14. Applicants must accurately and completely disclose ALL criminal history. This includes
    ALL felonies, misdemeanors, probation violations and failures to appear. Serious traffic
    offenses, such as “Reckless Driving” or “Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants
    (DUII)” or “Driving While Suspended” must be listed. “Failure to Appear,” even for a
    minor traffic violation must be listed. Minor traffic violations such as speeding or failing
    to stop at a stop sign or red light are required to be listed. Parking offenses are NOT
    required to be listed.

15. Dispositions of the LEDS check are emailed to the hiring supervisor when the
    background check is approved or not approved. If potentially disqualifying crimes are
    found, a weigh test is conducted, and if it results in an unfavorable outcome and
    employment is denied, the SI will be notified by a Human Resources Analyst.

16. Appeal Information – If a final fitness determination results in an unfavorable/denied
    outcome, the applicant/employee will be notified of appeal rights and the ability to
    request a hearing with the Oregon Office of Administrative Hearings (OAH). The request
    for a hearing must be made to the agency within 10 days’ notice of the final fitness
    determination of unfavorable/denied. The agency will then schedule a hearing in
    accordance with OAR 137-003-0501 – 0700 (call 971-720-0251). The SI will be notified
    that per OAR 137-003-0505, a collaborative dispute resolution process is available as an
    alternative to a contested case hearing, if requested timely, within the 10-day notice
    period. Choosing such a process will not affect the right to a contested case hearing if a
    hearing request is received by the agency within the 10-day period stated in the notice
    and the matter is not resolved through the collaboration process.

17. Driver license and driving record assessments will be conducted on conditional job offers
    to determine if applicants have an acceptable record to drive on official state business. If
    driving is an essential function of the job, it must be supported by the assigned duties and
    stated in the position description. A driving record will be considered unacceptable for
    any one or more of the following convictions, though not limited to such:

       A. Misdemeanor or felony traffic offense in the last 24 months. This includes
          reckless driving, driving under the influence of intoxicants, failing to perform the
          duties of a driver, criminal driving while suspended or revoked, fleeing, or
          attempting to elude a police officer and others, or the equivalent.

       B. Felony revocation of driving privileges or a suspension caused by a felony or
          misdemeanor or the equivalent within the last 24 months.

       C. More than three moving traffic violations in the last twelve months or the
          equivalent.

       D. Careless driving conviction within the last 12 months.

                                        Page 4 of 5
          E. One Class A moving violation in the last 12 months (Class A is the most serious
             level of violation, e.g., going 30 MPH over the limit).

    18. If driving is incidental for a position, alternative means of transportation may be
        considered for an individual who does not meet acceptable driving requirements.
        Options may include carpooling, public transit, taxi, bicycle, etc.

    19. Access & Dissemination: For personnel who are determined as needing to be CJIS
        cleared, they must complete an OSP CJIS background check and receive a written
        APPROVAL to have unescorted access to physically secured locations or controlled
        areas with FBI CJIS systems, data, or access within the facility. Access must be
        determined for job-related purposes only and identified by the State Personnel Director.
        The CJIS cleared individual must then pass and maintain appropriate levels of CJIS
        certification/training.

    20. Personnel required to be fingerprinted shall be provided with a copy of the FBI Privacy
        Act Statement and the Noncriminal Justice Applicant’s Privacy Rights when they are
        directed to get scheduled for fingerprinting through Fieldprint.

    21. CJIS Media Protection & Disposal: Criminal Justice Information must not be stored
        outside CJIS secured area and must be maintained in accordance with the latest CJIS
        Security Policy. As a non-Criminal Justice Agency there is no need to print Criminal
        Justice Information. CJI is accessed through electronic means.

    22. Electronic Media Disposal: AGT gathers and securely stores old media systems and
        utilizes the Garten Services vendor to retrieve the systems for data destruction in
        accordance with high-level certification based on the state contract. Garten Services
        ensures data is removed from all computers as part of a refurbishment process.

    23. Accessing, sharing, or using information for any purpose other than specific job-related
        duties for business purposes constitutes a violation of this policy.

INQUIRIES / QUESTIONS: Questions pertaining to this guidance may be directed to AGP at
(503) 509-2152.




                                             Tracy Garcia
                                             HR Director
                                             Adjutant General State Personnel




                                           Page 5 of 5
