 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
469B — Energy Incentives; Tax Credits; Grants 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 ENERGY INCENTIVES; TAX CREDITS;
GRANTS 

   

 HOUSING; LOTTERY AND GAMES;
ENVIRONMENT 

   

 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY DEVICES 

   

 469B.100  Definitions for ORS
469B.100 to 469B.118; rules 

   

 469B.103  Criteria; federal
standards; rules 

   

 469B.106  Claim for tax credits;
eligibility; contents; contractor system certification; rules 

   

 469B.112  Ineligible devices; rules 

   

 469B.115  Performance assumptions
and prescriptive measures for tax credits 

   

 469B.118  Forfeiture of tax
credits; revocation of contractor certificate; inspection; effect of failure to
allow inspection; collection 

   

 RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES 

   

 469B.130  Definitions for ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169 and 469B.171; rules 

   

 469B.133  Policy 

   

 469B.136  Priority given to certain
projects; criteria; rules 

   

 469B.139  Criteria for
high-performance homes, renewable energy systems, combined heat and power
facilities and facilities using or producing renewable energy resources; rules 

   

 469B.142  Annual limit to cost of
facility eligible for tax credits; discretion of director; rules 

   

 469B.145  Application for
preliminary certification; eligibility; contents of application; fees; rules 

   

 469B.148  Transferability of
facility tax credit; effect on taxes reported by public utility; rules 

   

 469B.151  Tax credit for rental
housing units; eligibility 

   

 469B.154  Transferability of rental
housing unit tax credit; rules 

   

 469B.157  Submissions for
preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension or denial of
preliminary certification 

   

 469B.161  Final certification;
eligibility; contents of application 

   

 469B.164  Fees for certification;
rules 

   

 469B.167  Certificate required for
tax credits; certification not to exceed five years 

   

 469B.169  Suspension or revocation
of certificate; forfeiture of tax credits; collection 

   

 469B.171  Assistance with facility
purchase for investor-owned utility customers 

   

 RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION SYSTEMS 

   

 469B.250  Definitions for ORS
469B.250 to 469B.265 

   

 469B.253  Application for grant;
fees 

   

 469B.256  Grant award; performance
agreement; denial; limitations; forfeiture 

   

 469B.259  Grant application fees;
rules 

   

 469B.262  Limitations on amount of
potential tax credits for certified renewable energy development contributions;
allocation; rules 

   

 469B.265  Policies and procedures;
standards for single renewable energy production system; rules 

   

 ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS 

   

 469B.270  Definitions for ORS
315.331 and 469B.270 to 469B.306 

   

 469B.273  Preference given to
certain projects; criteria 

   

 469B.276  Transferability of
project tax credit; recertification; determination of prices; rules 

   

 469B.279  Standards for energy
conservation projects; rules 

   

 469B.282  Limitation on amount
receiving preliminary certification 

   

 469B.285  Application for
preliminary certification; eligibility; contents; fees; certification to remain
valid for three years; rules 

   

 469B.288  Submissions for
preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension or denial of
preliminary certification 

   

 469B.291  Final certification;
eligibility; contents of application; performance agreement; rules 

   

 469B.294  Fees for certification or
recertification; rules 

   

 469B.297  Certificate required for
tax credits; certification not to exceed five years; recertification 

   

 469B.298  Recertification of
eligibility 

   

 469B.300  Suspension or revocation
of certificate or portion of certificate 

   

 469B.303  Limitations on amount of
potential tax credits for energy conservation projects; allocation; rules 

   

 469B.306  Policies and procedures;
standards for single energy conservation project; rules 

   

 TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS 

   

 469B.320  Definitions for ORS
315.336 and 469B.320 to 469B.347 

   

 469B.323  Transferability of
project tax credit; determination of prices; rules 

   

 469B.326  Application for
preliminary certification; eligibility; contents; fees; certification to remain
valid for three years; rules 

   

 469B.329  Submissions for
preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension or denial of
preliminary certification 

   

 469B.332  Final certification;
eligibility; contents of application; rules 

   

 469B.335  Fees for certification;
rules 

   

 469B.338  Certificate required for
tax credits; certification not to exceed five years 

   

 469B.341  Suspension or revocation
of certificate or portion of certificate 

   

 469B.344  Limitation on amount of
potential tax credits for transportation projects 

   

 469B.347  Policies and procedures;
standards for single transportation project; rules 

   

 BIOFUELS AND BIOMASS 

   

 469B.400  Fuel blends and solid
biofuels; qualification for tax credits; rules 

   

 469B.403  Biomass; eligibility for
tax credits; rates 

   

 SOLAR SYSTEMS 

   

 (Temporary provisions relating to
rebates for solar systems are compiled as notes following ORS 469B.403) 

   

 REBATES FOR HOME ENERGY
IMPROVEMENTS 

   

 469B.450  Rebates for home energy
efficiency retrofits; rebates for high-efficiency appliance and nonappliance
upgrades 

   

 INCENTIVES FOR RESIDENTIAL HEATING
AND COOLING PROGRAMS 

   

 (Heat Pump Deployment Program) 

   

 469B.460  Heat Pump Deployment
Program; eligibility requirements; performance agreement; use of grant funds;
reports; rules 

   

 469B.463  Heat Pump Deployment
Advisory Council 

   

 469B.466  Heat Pump Deployment
Fund; biennial reports 

   

 (Residential Heat Pump Rebates and
Grants) 

   

 (Temporary provisions relating to
rebates and grants for residential heat pumps are compiled as notes following
ORS 469B.466) 

   

 (Community Cooling Spaces Grants) 

   

 469B.480  Grants to assist
landlords with providing community cooling spaces 

   

 PENALTIES 

   

 469B.991  Civil penalty when
contractor certificate revoked 

   

 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY DEVICES 

   

       469B.100
Definitions for ORS 469B.100 to 469B.118; rules. As used in ORS 316.116 and
469B.100 to 469B.118: 

       (1) “Alternative
energy device” means a category one alternative energy device or a category two
alternative energy device. 

       (2) “Alternative
fuel device” includes a facility for mixing, storing, compressing or dispensing
fuels for alternative fuel vehicles, and any other necessary and reasonable
equipment. 

       (3) “Category one
alternative energy device” means: 

       (a) Any system,
mechanism or series of mechanisms that uses solar radiation for space heating
or cooling for one or more dwellings; 

       (b) Any system
that uses solar radiation for: 

       (A) Domestic
water heating; or 

       (B) Swimming
pool, spa or hot tub heating and that meets the requirements set forth in ORS
316.116; 

       (c) A ground
source heat pump and ground loop system; 

       (d) Any wind
powered device used to offset or supplement the use of electricity by
performing a specific task such as pumping water; 

       (e) Equipment
used in the production of alternative fuels; 

       (f) A generator
powered by alternative fuels and used to produce electricity; 

       (g) An energy
efficient appliance; 

       (h) An
alternative fuel device; or 

       (i) A premium
efficiency biomass combustion device that includes a dedicated outside
combustion air source and that meets minimum performance standards that are
established by the State Department of Energy. 

       (4) “Category two
alternative energy device” means a fuel cell system, solar electric system or
wind electric system. 

       (5) “Coefficient
of performance” means the ratio calculated by dividing the usable output energy
by the electrical input energy. Both energy values must be expressed in
equivalent units. 

       (6) “Contractor”
means a person whose trade or business consists of offering for sale an
alternative energy device, construction service, installation service or design
service. 

       (7) “Cost” means
the actual cost of the acquisition, construction and installation of the
alternative energy device. 

       (8) “Domestic
water heating” means the heating of water used in a dwelling for bathing,
clothes washing, dishwashing and other related functions. 

       (9) “Dwelling”
means real or personal property ordinarily inhabited as a principal or
secondary residence and located within this state. “Dwelling” includes, but is
not limited to, an individual unit within multiple unit residential housing. 

       (10) “Energy
efficient appliance” includes emerging technologies that exceed state and
federal appliance standards. 

       (11) “First year
energy yield” of an alternative energy device is the usable energy produced or
energy saved under average environmental conditions in one year. 

       (12) “Fuel cell
system” means any system, mechanism or series of mechanisms that uses fuel
cells or fuel cell technology to generate electrical energy for a dwelling. 

       (13) “Placed in
service” means the date an alternative energy device is ready and available to
produce usable energy or save energy. 

       (14) “Solar
electric system” means any system, mechanism or series of mechanisms, including
photovoltaic systems, that uses solar radiation to generate electrical energy
for a dwelling. 

       (15) “Third-party
alternative energy device installation” means an alternative energy device that
is installed in connection with residential property and owned by a person
other than the residential property owner in accordance with an agreement in
effect for at least 10 years between the residential property owner and the
alternative energy device owner. The agreement must cover maintenance and
either the use of or the power generated by the alternative energy device. 

       (16) “Wind
electric system” means any system, mechanism or series of mechanisms that uses
wind to generate electrical energy for a dwelling. [Formerly 469.160; 2015
c.701 §28] 

   

       469B.103
Criteria; federal standards; rules. 
(1) For the purposes of carrying out ORS 469B.100 to 469B.118, the State
Department of Energy may adopt rules prescribing minimum performance criteria
for alternative energy devices for dwellings. The department may, in
prescribing criteria, rely on applicable federal, state and local requirements
for energy efficiency, including the state building code, state and federal
appliance standards and any specialty codes and any code adopted by the
Building Codes Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services. 

       (2) The
department shall take into consideration evolving market conditions in
prescribing minimum performance criteria for alternative energy devices and in
determining credit amounts, consistent with ORS 316.116. 

       (3) The
department, in adopting rules under this section for solar heating and cooling
systems, shall take into consideration applicable standards of federal
performance criteria prescribed pursuant to the provisions of the Solar Heating
and Cooling Demonstration Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5506. 

       (4) The Director
of the State Department of Energy shall adopt rules governing the determination
of eligibility, verification and certification of an alternative fuel device
for purposes of the tax credits granted under ORS 316.116, including but not
limited to rules that further define an alternative fuel device and that govern
the computation of costs eligible for credit. 

       (5) The
department shall by rule establish policies and procedures for the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of ORS 316.116 and 469B.100 to
469B.118. [Formerly 469.165; 2015 c.701 §29] 

   

       469B.106 Claim
for tax credits; eligibility; contents; contractor system certification; rules. (1) Subject to the limitations in
section 75, chapter 730, Oregon Laws 2011, any person may claim a tax credit
under ORS 316.116 if the person: 

       (a) Meets the
requirements of ORS 316.116; 

       (b) Meets the
requirements of ORS 469B.100 to 469B.118; and 

       (c) Pays, subject
to subsection (9) of this section, all or a portion of the costs of an
alternative energy device. 

       (2) In order to
be eligible for a tax credit under ORS 316.116, a person claiming a tax credit
for construction or installation of an alternative energy device shall have the
device certified by the State Department of Energy or constructed or installed by
a contractor certified by the department under subsection (4) of this section. 

       (3) Verification
of the purchase, construction or installation of an alternative energy device
shall be made in writing on a form provided by the Department of Revenue and,
if applicable, shall contain: 

       (a) The location
of the alternative energy device; 

       (b) A description
of the type of device; 

       (c) If the device
was constructed or installed by a contractor, evidence that the contractor has
any license, bond, insurance and permit required to sell and construct or
install the alternative energy device; 

       (d) If the device
was constructed or installed by a contractor, a statement signed by the
contractor that the applicant has received: 

       (A) A statement
of the reasonably expected energy savings of the device; 

       (B) A copy of
consumer information published by the State Department of Energy; 

       (C) An operating
manual for the alternative energy device; and 

       (D) A copy of the
contractor’s certification certificate or alternative energy device system
certificate for the alternative energy device, as appropriate; 

       (e) If the device
was not constructed or installed by a contractor, evidence that: 

       (A) The State
Department of Energy has issued an alternative energy device system certificate
for the alternative energy device; and 

       (B) The taxpayer
has obtained all building permits required for construction or installation of
the device; 

       (f) A statement,
signed by both the taxpayer claiming the credit and the contractor if the
device was constructed or installed by a contractor, that the construction or
installation meets all the requirements of ORS 469B.100 to 469B.118; 

       (g) The date the
alternative energy device was purchased by the residential property owner, or,
for a third-party alternative energy device installation, the date that the
residential property owner and the alternative energy device owner signed a
contract; 

       (h) The date the
alternative energy device was placed in service; and 

       (i) Any other
information that the Director of the State Department of Energy or the
Department of Revenue determines is necessary. 

       (4)(a) When the
State Department of Energy finds that an alternative energy device can meet the
standards adopted under ORS 469B.103, the Director of the State Department of
Energy may issue a contractor system certification to the person selling and
constructing or installing the alternative energy device. 

       (b) Any person
who sells or installs more than 12 alternative energy devices in one year shall
apply for a contractor system certification. An application for a contractor
system certification shall be made in writing on a form provided by the State
Department of Energy and shall contain: 

       (A) A statement
that the contractor has any license, bonding, insurance and permit that is
required for the sale and construction or installation of the alternative
energy device; 

       (B) A specific
description of the alternative energy device, including, but not limited to,
the material, equipment and mechanism used in the device, operating procedure,
sizing and siting method and construction or installation procedure; 

       (C) The addresses
of three installations of the device that are available for inspection by the
State Department of Energy; 

       (D) The range of
installed costs to purchasers of the device; 

       (E) Any important
construction, installation or operating instructions; and 

       (F) Any other
information that the State Department of Energy determines is necessary. 

       (c) A new
application for contractor system approval shall be filed when there is a
change in the information supplied under paragraph (b) of this subsection. 

       (d) The State
Department of Energy may issue contractor system certificates to each
contractor who on October 3, 1989, has a valid dealer system certification,
which shall authorize the sale and installation of the same domestic water
heating alternative energy devices authorized by the dealer certification. 

       (e) If the State
Department of Energy finds that an alternative energy device can meet the
standards adopted under ORS 469B.103, the Director of the State Department of
Energy may issue an alternative energy device system certificate to the
taxpayer constructing or installing or having an alternative energy device
constructed or installed. 

       (f) An
application for an alternative energy device system certificate shall be made
in writing on a form provided by the State Department of Energy and shall
contain: 

       (A) A specific
description of the alternative energy device, including, but not limited to,
the material, equipment and mechanism used in the device, operating procedure,
sizing, siting method and construction or installation procedure; 

       (B) The
constructed or installed cost of the device; and 

       (C) A statement
that the taxpayer has all permits required for construction or installation of
the device. 

       (5) Prior to
commencing installation of alternative energy devices, installers of
third-party alternative energy device installations must apply to the State
Department of Energy to reserve credits on behalf of owners of residential
property. Installers may reserve credit for no more than 25 installations under
this subsection in one application. 

       (6) To claim the
tax credit, the verification form described in subsection (3) of this section
shall be submitted with the taxpayer’s tax return for the year the alternative
energy device is placed in service or the immediately succeeding tax year. A
copy of the contractor’s certification certificate or alternative energy device
system certificate also shall be submitted. 

       (7) The
verification form and contractor’s certificate or alternative energy device
system certificate described under this section shall be effective for purposes
of tax relief allowed under ORS 316.116. 

       (8) The
verification form and contractor’s certificate described under this section may
be transferred to the first purchaser of a dwelling who intends to use the
dwelling as a principal or secondary residence. 

       (9) Any person
that pays the present value of the tax credit for an alternative energy device
provided under ORS 316.116 and 469B.100 to 469B.118 to the person who
constructs or installs the alternative energy device shall be entitled to claim
the credit in the manner and subject to rules adopted by the Department of
Revenue to carry out the purposes of this subsection. The State Department of
Energy may establish by rule uniform discount rates to be used in calculating
the present value of a tax credit under this subsection. [Formerly 469.170;
2012 c.45 §13; 2015 c.701 §30] 

   

       Note: Section 8a (1), chapter 832,
Oregon Laws 2005, provides: 

       Sec. 8a. (1) The State Department of Energy
may not issue a contractor’s certification certificate or an alternative energy
device system certificate under ORS 469.170 [renumbered 469B.106] after January
1, 2018. [2005 c.832 §8a(1); 2009 c.913 §13(1); 2011 c.730 §68(1)] 

   

       469B.109 [Formerly 469.171; 2012 c.45 §13a;
repealed by 2015 c.701 §36] 

   

       469B.112
Ineligible devices; rules. 
The following devices are not eligible for the tax credit under ORS 316.116: 

       (1) Standard
efficiency furnaces; 

       (2) Air
conditioning systems; 

       (3) Boilers; 

       (4) Standard
back-up heating systems; 

       (5) Woodstoves or
wood furnaces, or any part of a heating system that burns wood, unless the
woodstove, furnace or system constitutes a premium efficiency biomass
combustion device described in ORS 469B.100 (3)(i); 

       (6) Heat pump
water heaters that are part of a geothermal heat pump space heating system; 

       (7) Structures
that cover or enclose a swimming pool; 

       (8) Swimming
pools, hot tubs or spas used to store heat; 

       (9) Above ground,
uninsulated swimming pools, hot tubs or spas; 

       (10) Photovoltaic
systems installed on recreational vehicles; 

       (11) Conversion
of an existing alternative energy device to another type of alternative energy
device; 

       (12) Repair or
replacement of an existing alternative energy device; 

       (13) A category
two alternative energy device, if the equipment or other property that
comprises the category two alternative energy device is the basis for an
allowed credit for a category one alternative energy device under ORS 316.116; 

       (14) A category
one alternative energy device, if the equipment or other property that
comprises the category one alternative energy device is also the basis for an
allowed credit for a category two alternative energy device under ORS 316.116;
or 

       (15) Any other
device identified by the State Department of Energy. The department may adopt
rules defining standards for eligible and ineligible devices under this
section. [Formerly 469.172; 2015 c.701 §31] 

   

       469B.115
Performance assumptions and prescriptive measures for tax credits. (1) In order to carry out ORS
469B.100 to 469B.118, the State Department of Energy shall develop performance
assumptions and prescriptive measures to determine the eligibility and tax
credit amount for alternative energy devices constructed or installed in a
dwelling. 

       (2) The
department shall use the performance assumptions and prescriptive measures to
develop information for the Department of Revenue to use to allow taxpayers to
determine their eligibility and tax credit amount. The State Department of
Energy may review this information on an annual basis to take into
consideration new technology and performance assumption accuracy. 

       (3) For the
purpose of determining the first year energy yield of an alternative energy
device, the department shall use the following assumptions and test standards: 

       (a) Solar Rating
and Certification Corporation standards SRCC 100, 300, American Society of
Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers 93-77, or the
Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute under
ANSI/AHRI/ASHRAE/ISO Standard 13256-1 test at 50 degrees Fahrenheit entering
water temperature, as appropriate. The testing requirements under this
paragraph do not apply to an owner-built alternative energy device. 

       (b) For an
alternative energy device used as a source for space heating or cooling, the
heating or cooling energy load as determined by a heat loss or gain calculation
performed in accordance with the methods established by the American Society of
Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers. Except for an
owner-built or site-built system, an alternative energy device used as a source
for domestic hot water heating must meet the SRCC OG 300 systems test or comply
with comparable requirements as determined by the department. 

       (c) For an
alternative energy device used as a source for electrical energy, the first
year energy yield shall be based upon the electrical energy load of the
dwelling as determined according to the procedure established by the
department. 

       (d) For an
alternative energy device used as a source for swimming pool, spa or hot tub
heating, the first year energy yield shall be based on the heating load of the
swimming pool, spa or hot tub as determined according to the procedure
established by the department. [Formerly 469.176; 2015 c.701 §32] 

   

       469B.118
Forfeiture of tax credits; revocation of contractor certificate; inspection;
effect of failure to allow inspection; collection. (1) The Director of the State
Department of Energy may order the forfeiture of a tax credit allowed under ORS
316.116, as provided in ORS 315.061: 

       (a) For the
reasons set forth in ORS 315.061; or 

       (b) If the
director finds that: 

       (A) The
alternative energy device has not been constructed, installed or operated in
substantial compliance with the requirements of ORS 469B.100 to 469B.118; or 

       (B) The taxpayer
failed to consent to an inspection of the constructed or installed alternative
energy device by the State Department of Energy after a reasonable, written
request for such an inspection by the State Department of Energy. 

       (2) The Director
of the State Department of Energy may order the revocation of a contractor
certificate issued under ORS 469B.106, as provided in ORS 315.061: 

       (a) For the
reasons set forth in ORS 315.061; or 

       (b) If the
director finds that: 

       (A) The
contractor’s performance for the alternative energy device for which the
contractor is issued a certificate under ORS 469B.106 does not meet industry
standards; or 

       (B) The
contractor has misrepresented to the customer either the tax credit program or
the nature or quality of the alternative energy device. 

       (3) If the tax
credit for the construction or installation of an alternative energy device is
ordered forfeited due to an action of the contractor, the Department of Revenue
shall proceed to collect, from the contractor, an amount equivalent to those
taxes not paid by the taxpayer as a result of the tax credit relief under ORS
316.116. If the forfeiture is due to an action of the contractor and not to an
action of the taxpayer, the assessment of these taxes shall be levied on the
contractor and not on the taxpayer. Notwithstanding ORS 314.835, the Department
of Revenue may disclose information from income tax returns or reports to the
extent such disclosure is necessary to collect amounts from contractors under
this subsection. 

       (4) In order to
obtain information necessary to verify eligibility and amount of the tax
credit, the State Department of Energy or its representative may inspect an
alternative energy device that has been purchased, constructed or installed.
The inspection shall be made only with the consent of the owner of the
dwelling. Failure to consent to the inspection is grounds for the forfeiture of
any tax credit relief under ORS 316.116. The Department of Revenue shall
proceed to collect any taxes due according to subsection (3) of this section.
For electrical generating alternative energy devices, the State Department of
Energy may obtain energy consumption records for the dwelling the device
serves, for a 12-month period, in order to verify eligibility and amount of the
tax credit. [Formerly 469.180; 2015 c.701 §33; 2019 c.483 §11] 

   

 RENEWABLE ENERGY
RESOURCES 

   

       469B.130
Definitions for ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169 and 469B.171; rules. As used in ORS 469B.130 to
469B.169 and 469B.171: 

       (1) “Alternative
fuel vehicle” means a vehicle as defined by the Director of the State
Department of Energy by rule that is used primarily in connection with the
conduct of a trade or business and that is manufactured or modified to use an
alternative fuel, including but not limited to electricity, ethanol, methanol,
gasohol and propane or natural gas, regardless of energy consumption savings. 

       (2) “Car sharing
facility” means the expenses of operating a car sharing program, including but
not limited to the fair market value of parking spaces used to store the fleet
of cars available for a car sharing program, but does not include the costs of
the fleet of cars. 

       (3) “Car sharing
program” means a program in which drivers pay to become members in order to
have joint access to a fleet of cars from a common parking area on an hourly
basis. “Car sharing program” does not include operations conducted by car
rental agencies. 

       (4) “Cost” means
the capital costs and expenses necessarily incurred in the erection,
construction, installation and acquisition of a facility, including site
development costs and expenses for a sustainable building practices facility. 

       (5) “Energy
facility” means any capital investment for which the first year energy savings
yields a simple payback period of greater than one year. An energy facility
includes: 

       (a) Any land,
structure, building, installation, excavation, machinery, equipment or device,
or any addition to, reconstruction of or improvement of, land or an existing
structure, building, installation, excavation, machinery, equipment or device
necessarily erected, constructed, installed or acquired by any person in
connection with the conduct of a trade or business and actually used in the
processing or utilization of renewable energy resources to: 

       (A) Replace a
substantial part or all of an existing use of electricity, petroleum or natural
gas; 

       (B) Provide the
initial use of energy where electricity, petroleum or natural gas would have
been used; 

       (C) Generate
electricity to replace an existing source of electricity or to provide a new
source of electricity for sale by or use in the trade or business; 

       (D) Perform a
process that obtains energy resources from material that would otherwise be
solid waste as defined in ORS 459.005; or 

       (E) Manufacture
or distribute alternative fuels, including but not limited to electricity,
ethanol, methanol, gasohol or biodiesel. 

       (b) Any
acquisition of, addition to, reconstruction of or improvement of land or an
existing structure, building, installation, excavation, machinery, equipment or
device necessarily erected, constructed, installed or acquired by any person in
connection with the conduct of a trade or business in order to substantially
reduce the consumption of purchased energy. 

       (c) A necessary
feature of a new commercial building or multiple unit dwelling, as dwelling is
defined by ORS 469B.100, that causes that building or dwelling to exceed an
energy performance standard in the state building code. 

       (d) The
replacement of an electric motor with another electric motor that substantially
reduces the consumption of electricity. 

       (6) “Facility”
means an energy facility, recycling facility, transportation facility, car
sharing facility, sustainable building practices facility, alternative fuel
vehicle or facilities necessary to operate alternative fuel vehicles, including
but not limited to an alternative fuel vehicle refueling station, a
high-efficiency combined heat and power facility, a high-performance home or a
homebuilder-installed renewable energy system. 

       (7) “High-efficiency
combined heat and power facility” means a device or equipment that
simultaneously produces heat and electricity from a single source of fuel and
that meets the criteria established for a high-efficiency combined heat and
power facility under ORS 469B.139. 

       (8) “High-performance
home” means a new single-family dwelling that: 

       (a) Is designed
and constructed to reduce net purchased energy through use of both energy
efficiency and on-site renewable energy resources; and 

       (b) Meets the
criteria established for a high-performance home under ORS 469B.139. 

       (9) “Homebuilder-installed
renewable energy system” means a renewable energy resource system that: 

       (a) Meets the
criteria established for a renewable energy resource system under ORS 469B.139;
and 

       (b) Is installed
in a new single-family dwelling by, or at the direction of, the homebuilder
constructing the dwelling. 

       (10) “Qualified
transit pass contract” means a purchase agreement entered into between a
transportation provider and a person, the terms of which obligate the person to
purchase transit passes on behalf or for the benefit of employees, students,
patients or other individuals over a specified period of time. 

       (11) “Recycling
facility” means equipment used by a trade or business solely for recycling: 

       (a) Including: 

       (A) Equipment
used solely for hauling and refining used oil; 

       (B) New vehicles
or modifications to existing vehicles used solely to transport used recyclable
materials that cannot be used further in their present form or location such as
glass, metal, paper, aluminum, rubber and plastic; 

       (C) Trailers,
racks or bins that are used for hauling used recyclable materials and are added
to or attached to existing waste collection vehicles; and 

       (D) Any equipment
used solely for processing recyclable materials such as balers, flatteners,
crushers, separators and scales. 

       (b) But not
including equipment used for transporting or processing scrap materials that
are recycled as a part of the normal operation of a trade or business as
defined by the director. 

       (12)(a) “Renewable
energy resource” includes, but is not limited to: 

       (A) Straw, forest
slash, wood waste or other wastes from farm or forest land, nonpetroleum plant
or animal based biomass, ocean wave energy, solar energy, wind power, water
power or geothermal energy; 

       (B) A
hydroelectric generating facility that obtains all applicable permits and
complies with all state and federal statutory requirements for the protection
of fish and wildlife and that: 

       (i) Does not
exceed 10 megawatts of installed capacity; or 

       (ii) Qualifies as
a research, development or demonstration facility; or 

       (C) A renewable
energy storage device as defined by the director by rule. 

       (b) “Renewable
energy resource” does not include a hydroelectric generating facility that is
not described in paragraph (a) of this subsection. 

       (13) “Sustainable
building practices facility” means a commercial building in which building
practices that reduce the amount of energy, water or other resources needed for
construction and operation of the building are used. “Sustainable building
practices facility” may be further defined by the State Department of Energy by
rule, including rules that establish traditional building practice baselines in
energy, water or other resource usage for comparative purposes for use in
determining whether a facility is a sustainable building practices facility. 

       (14) “Transportation
facility” means a transportation project that reduces energy use during
commuting to and from work or school, during work-related travel, or during
travel to obtain medical or other services, and may be further defined by the
department by rule. “Transportation facility” includes, but is not limited to: 

       (a) A qualified
transit pass contract or a transportation services contract; or 

       (b) The purchase
of efficient truck technology and related truck trailers, as defined in ORS
801.580, for commercial motor vehicles, as defined in ORS 801.208, that are
registered under ORS 803.420, or for commercial motor vehicles that are
proportionally registered under ORS 826.009 or 826.011. 

       (15) “Transportation
provider” means a public, private or nonprofit entity that provides
transportation services to members of the public. 

       (16) “Transportation
services contract” means a contract that is related to a transportation
facility, and may be further defined by the department by rule. [Formerly
469.185] 

   

       469B.133
Policy. In the
interest of the public health, safety and welfare, it is the policy of the
State of Oregon to encourage the conservation of electricity, petroleum and
natural gas by providing tax relief for Oregon facilities that conserve energy
resources or meet energy requirements through the use of renewable resources. [Formerly
469.190] 

   

       469B.136
Priority given to certain projects; criteria; rules. (1) In determining the eligibility
of any facility for tax credits, preference shall be given to those projects
that: 

       (a) Provide
energy savings for real or personal property within the state inhabited as the
principal residence of a tenant, including: 

       (A) Nonowner
occupied single family dwellings; and 

       (B) Multiple unit
residential housing; or 

       (b) Provide
long-term energy savings from the use of renewable resources or conservation of
energy resources. 

       (2) The Director
of the State Department of Energy shall establish by rule a tiered priority
system to be used in evaluating applicants for certification of facilities
using or producing renewable energy resources. The tier system shall be based
upon the projected costs of facilities. In determining the eligibility for tax
credits and in allocating the available certified cost pursuant to section 2
(1), chapter 76, Oregon Laws 2010, among facilities, the director shall subject
facilities with higher projected costs to closer scrutiny, shall compare
projects of similar costs against each other and may certify less than the
total cost of any facility based on this evaluation. The director may employ
criteria including the following factors as defined by rule: 

       (a)
Technology-specific energy production standards; 

       (b) Market
sector; 

       (c) Delivery of
energy into existing distribution and transmission network; 

       (d) Investment payback
period; 

       (e) Expected
lifespan of the facility; 

       (f) Potential for
long-term viability; 

       (g) Environmental
standards established by the director; 

       (h) Potential to
create and sustain new jobs; 

       (i) Projected
siting in a location that is geographically or socioeconomically advantageous; 

       (j) Demonstrated
readiness to begin implementation; 

       (k) Amount and
quality of energy generated; 

       (L) Strength of
business plan; 

       (m) Provision of
operations and maintenance data, with appropriate protections for trade secrets
consistent with ORS chapter 192; 

       (n) Connection to
existing infrastructure; 

       (o) Third-party
review of the applicant’s business plan; or 

       (p) Data related
to projected return on investment. [Formerly 469.195] 

   

       469B.139
Criteria for high-performance homes, renewable energy systems, combined heat
and power facilities and facilities using or producing renewable energy
resources; rules. 
The State Department of Energy shall by rule establish all of the following
criteria: 

       (1) For a
high-performance home, the minimum design and construction standards that must
be met or exceeded for a dwelling to be considered a high-performance home,
including but not limited to standards for the building envelope, HVAC systems,
lighting, appliances, water conservation measures, use of sustainable building
materials and on-site renewable energy systems. The criteria must also
establish the minimum reduction in estimated net purchased energy that a
dwelling must achieve to be considered a high-performance home. 

       (2) For a
homebuilder-installed renewable energy system, the minimum performance and
efficiency standards that a solar electric system, solar domestic water heating
system, passive solar space heating system, wind power system, geothermal
heating system, fuel cell system or other system utilizing renewable resources
must achieve to be considered a homebuilder-installed renewable energy system. 

       (3) For a
high-efficiency combined heat and power facility, the minimum performance and
efficiency standards that the facility must achieve to be considered a
high-efficiency combined heat and power facility. 

       (4) For a
facility using or producing renewable energy resources, standards relating to
criteria required under ORS 469B.136 (2). 

       (5) Standards,
consistent with the definitions in ORS 469B.130, relating to what constitutes a
single facility. [Formerly 469.197] 

   

       469B.142
Annual limit to cost of facility eligible for tax credits; discretion of
director; rules. 
(1) For a facility, the total cost that receives a preliminary certification
from the Director of the State Department of Energy for tax credits in any
calendar year may not exceed: 

       (a) $20 million,
in the case of a facility using or producing renewable energy resources or a
high-efficiency combined heat and power facility; 

       (b) Five percent
of the total cost of the facility but no more than $3 million, in the case of a
facility that uses or produces renewable energy resources and is a wind
facility with an installed capacity of more than 10 megawatts; or 

       (c) $10 million,
in the case of any other facility. 

       (2) The director
shall determine the dollar amount certified for any facility and the priority
between applications for certification based upon the criteria contained in ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169 and applicable rules and standards adopted under ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169. The director may consider the status of a facility as a
research, development or demonstration facility of new renewable resource
generating and conservation technologies or a qualified transit pass contract
in the determination. [Formerly 469.200] 

   

       469B.145
Application for preliminary certification; eligibility; contents of
application; fees; rules. 
(1) Prior to erection, construction, installation or acquisition of a proposed
facility, any person may apply to the State Department of Energy for
preliminary certification under ORS 469B.157 if: 

       (a) The erection,
construction, installation or acquisition of the facility is to be commenced on
or after October 3, 1979; 

       (b) The facility
complies with the standards or rules adopted by the Director of the State
Department of Energy; and 

       (c) The applicant
meets one of the following criteria: 

       (A) The applicant
is a person to whom a tax credit for the facility has been transferred; or 

       (B) The applicant
will be the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the facility at the time of
erection, construction, installation or acquisition of the proposed facility,
and: 

       (i) The applicant
is the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of a trade or business that plans to
utilize the facility in connection with Oregon property; or 

       (ii) The
applicant is the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of a trade or business
that plans to lease the facility to a person that will utilize the facility in
connection with Oregon property. 

       (2) An
application for preliminary certification shall be made in writing on a form
prepared by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the applicant or the lessee of the applicant’s facility: 

       (A) Intends to
convert from a purchased energy source to a renewable energy resource; 

       (B) Plans to
acquire, construct or install a facility that will use a renewable energy
resource or solid waste instead of electricity, petroleum or natural gas; 

       (C) Plans to use
a renewable energy resource in the generation of electricity for sale or to
replace an existing or proposed use of an existing source of electricity; 

       (D) Plans to
acquire, construct or install a facility that substantially reduces the
consumption of purchased energy; 

       (E) Plans to
acquire, construct or install equipment for recycling as described in ORS
469B.130 (11); 

       (F) Plans to
acquire an alternative fuel vehicle or to convert an existing vehicle to an
alternative fuel vehicle; 

       (G) Plans to
acquire, construct or install a facility necessary to operate alternative fuel
vehicles; 

       (H) Plans to
acquire transit passes for use by individuals specified by the applicant; 

       (I) Plans to
acquire, construct or install a transportation facility; 

       (J) Plans to
acquire a sustainable building practices facility; 

       (K) Plans to
acquire a car sharing facility and operate a car sharing program; 

       (L) Plans to
construct a high-efficiency combined heat and power facility; 

       (M) Is a
homebuilder and plans to construct a homebuilder-installed renewable energy
system; or 

       (N) Is a
homebuilder and plans to construct a high-performance home. 

       (b) A detailed
description of the proposed facility and its operation and information showing
that the facility will operate as represented in the application and remain in
operation for at least five years, unless the director by rule specifies a
shorter period of operation. 

       (c) Information
on the amount by which consumption of electricity, petroleum or natural gas by
the applicant or the lessee of the applicant’s facility will be reduced, and on
the amount of energy that will be produced for sale, as the result of using the
facility or, if applicable, information about the expected level of sustainable
building practices facility performance. 

       (d) The projected
cost of the facility. 

       (e) If
applicable, a copy of the proposed qualified transit pass contract,
transportation services contract or contract for lease of parking spaces for a
car sharing facility. 

       (f) Information
on the number and type of jobs that will be created, the number of jobs
sustained throughout the construction, installation and operation of the
facility and the benefits of the facility with regard to overall economic
activity in this state. 

       (g) Information
demonstrating that the proposed facility will comply with applicable state and
local laws and regulations and obtain required licenses and permits. 

       (h) Information
relating to the criteria required under ORS 469B.136. 

       (i) Any other
information the director considers necessary to determine whether the proposed
facility is in accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169, and
any applicable rules or standards adopted by the director. 

       (3) An
application for preliminary certification shall be accompanied by a fee
established under ORS 469B.164. The director may refund all or a portion of the
fee if the application for certification is rejected. 

       (4) The director
may allow an applicant to file the preliminary application or a reapplication
under subsection (6) of this section after the start of erection, construction,
installation or acquisition of the facility if the director finds: 

       (a) Filing the
application before the start of erection, construction, installation or
acquisition is inappropriate because special circumstances render filing
earlier unreasonable; and 

       (b) The facility
would otherwise qualify for tax credit certification pursuant to ORS 469B.130
to 469B.169. 

       (5) A preliminary
certification of a sustainable building practices facility shall be applied for
and issued as prescribed by the department by rule. 

       (6) A preliminary
certification shall remain valid for a period of three calendar years after the
date the preliminary certification is issued by the director. The director may
extend the three-year period for two additional calendar years upon reapplication
and submission of the fee required by this section. [Formerly 469.205] 

   

       469B.148
Transferability of facility tax credit; effect on taxes reported by public
utility; rules. 
(1) The owner of a facility may transfer a tax credit for the facility in
exchange for a cash payment equal to the present value of the potential tax
credit, as determined at the time of the application for preliminary
certification. 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy shall establish by rule a formula to be employed in the
determination of prices of credits transferred under this section. In
establishing the formula the department shall incorporate inflation projections
and market real rate of return. 

       (3) The
department shall recalculate credit transfer prices quarterly, employing the
formula established under subsection (2) of this section. 

       (4)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a tax credit transferred pursuant
to this section does not decrease the amount of taxes required to be reported
by a public utility. [Formerly 469.206; 2012 c.45 §23a] 

   

       469B.151 Tax
credit for rental housing units; eligibility. (1) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this
section, an applicant under ORS 469B.145 (1)(c) shall be eligible for a tax
credit for energy conservation measures installed in rental housing units
pursuant to ORS 469.636. The tax credit shall apply to only the first $5,000 of
actually installed energy conservation measure costs per dwelling unit. 

       (2) An owner,
contract purchaser or lessee of a rental housing unit for which energy
conservation measures have been financed by an applicant under subsection (1)
of this section is ineligible for an energy conservation measure tax credit for
such measures. 

       (3) No applicant
under ORS 469B.145 (1)(c) shall be eligible for a tax credit for energy
conservation measures installed in rental housing units pursuant to ORS 469.636
if the rental housing units are constructed on or after January 1, 1996. [Formerly
469.207] 

   

       469B.154
Transferability of rental housing unit tax credit; rules. (1) The owner of a rental housing
unit may transfer a tax credit for energy conservation measures installed in
rental housing units under ORS 469B.151 in exchange for a cash payment equal to
the present value of the tax credit. To be eligible for a transfer, the energy
conservation measures must have been recommended in an energy audit as provided
in ORS 469.633 or 469.651. 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy may establish by rule uniform discount rates to be used in
calculating the present value of a tax credit under this section. [Formerly
469.208; 2017 c.727 §15] 

   

       469B.157
Submissions for preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension
or denial of preliminary certification. (1) The Director of the State Department of Energy
may require the submission of plans, specifications and contract terms, and
after examination thereof, may request corrections and revisions of the plans,
specifications and terms. 

       (2) If the
director determines that the proposed acquisition, erection, construction or
installation is technically feasible and should operate in accordance with the
representations made by the applicant, and is in accordance with the provisions
of ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169 and any applicable rules or standards adopted by
the director, the director shall issue a preliminary certificate approving the
acquisition, erection, construction or installation of the facility. The
certificate shall indicate the potential amount of tax credit allowable and
shall list any conditions for claiming the credit. 

       (3) The director
may issue an order altering, conditioning, suspending or denying preliminary
certification if the director determines that: 

       (a) The
acquisition, erection, construction or installation does not comply with the
provisions of ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169 and applicable rules and standards; 

       (b) The applicant
has previously received preliminary or final certification for the same costs; 

       (c) The applicant
is unable to demonstrate that the facility would be economically viable without
the allowance of additional credits under ORS 315.354; 

       (d) The applicant
was directly involved in an act for which the director has levied civil
penalties or revoked, canceled or suspended any certification under ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169; or 

       (e) The applicant
or the principal, director, officer, owner, majority shareholder or member of
the applicant, or the manager of the applicant if the applicant is a limited
liability company, is in arrears for payments owed to any government agency
while in any capacity with direct or indirect control over a business. [Formerly
469.210] 

   

       469B.161 Final
certification; eligibility; contents of application. (1) A final certification may not
be issued by the Director of the State Department of Energy under this section
unless: 

       (a) The facility
was acquired, erected, constructed or installed under a preliminary certificate
of approval issued under ORS 469B.157; 

       (b) The applicant
demonstrates the ability to provide the information required by ORS 469B.145
(2) and does not violate any condition that may be imposed as described in ORS
469B.157 (3); and 

       (c) The facility
was acquired, erected, constructed or installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169 and any applicable rules or
standards adopted by the director. 

       (2) Any person
may apply to the State Department of Energy for final certification of a
facility: 

       (a) If the
department issued preliminary certification for the facility under ORS
469B.157; and 

       (b)(A) After
completion of erection, construction, installation or acquisition of the
proposed facility or, if the facility is a qualified transit pass contract,
after entering into the contract with a transportation provider; or 

       (B) After
transfer of the facility, as provided in ORS 315.354 (5). 

       (3) An
application for final certification shall be made in writing on a form prepared
by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the conditions of the preliminary certification have been complied with; 

       (b) The actual
cost of the facility certified to by a certified public accountant who is not
an employee of the applicant or, if the actual cost of the facility is less
than $50,000, copies of receipts for purchase and installation of the facility; 

       (c) The amount of
the credit under ORS 315.354 that is to be claimed; 

       (d) The number
and type of jobs created by the operation and maintenance of the facility over
the five-year period beginning with the year of preliminary certification under
ORS 469B.157 and information on the benefits of the facility with regard to
overall economic activity in this state; 

       (e) Information
sufficient to demonstrate that the facility will remain in operation for at
least five years, unless the director by rule specifies a shorter period of
operation; 

       (f) Information
sufficient to demonstrate, in the case of a research, development or
demonstration facility that is not in operation, that the applicant has made
reasonable efforts to make the facility operable and meet the requirements of
the preliminary certificate; 

       (g) Documentation
of compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations and
licensing and permitting requirements as defined by the director; and 

       (h) Any other
information determined by the director to be necessary prior to issuance of a
final certificate, including inspection of the facility by the department. 

       (4) The director
shall act on an application for certification before the 60th day after the
filing of the application under this section. The director may issue the
certificate, or certificates for efficient truck technology within a
transportation facility, together with such conditions as the director
determines are appropriate to promote the purposes of ORS 315.354, 469B.130 to
469B.169 and 469B.171. If the applicant is an entity subject to regulation by
the Public Utility Commission, the director may consult with the commission
prior to issuance of the certificate. The action of the director shall include
certification of the actual cost of the facility. However, the director may not
certify an amount for tax credit purposes that is more than the amount approved
in the preliminary certificate issued for the facility. 

       (5) If the
director rejects an application for final certification, or certifies a lesser
actual cost of the facility than was claimed in the application, the director
shall send to the applicant written notice of the action, together with a
statement of the findings and reasons therefor, by certified mail, before the
60th day after the filing of the application. Failure of the director to act
constitutes rejection of the application. 

       (6) Upon approval
of an application for final certification of a facility, the director shall
certify the facility. Each certificate shall bear a separate serial number for
each device. Where one or more devices constitute an operational unit, the
director may certify the operational unit under one certificate. 

       (7) The director
may establish by rule timelines and intermediate deadlines for submission of
application materials. [Formerly 469.215] 

   

       469B.164 Fees
for certification; rules. 
By rule and after hearing, the Director of the State Department of Energy may
adopt a schedule of reasonable fees which the State Department of Energy may
require of applicants for preliminary or final certification under ORS 469B.130
to 469B.169. Before the adoption or revision of the fees, the department shall
estimate the total cost of the program to the department. The fees shall be
used to recover the anticipated cost of filing, investigating, granting and
rejecting applications for certification and shall be designed not to exceed
the total cost estimated by the department. Any excess fees shall be held by
the department and shall be used by the department to reduce any future fee
increases. The fee may vary according to the size and complexity of the
facility. The fee shall not be considered as part of the cost of the facility
to be certified. [Formerly 469.217] 

   

       469B.167
Certificate required for tax credits; certification not to exceed five years. (1)(a) A certificate issued under
ORS 469B.161 is required for purposes of obtaining tax credits in accordance
with ORS 315.354. Such certification shall be granted for a period not to
exceed five years. The five-year period shall begin with the tax year of the
applicant during which the completed application for final certification of the
facility under ORS 469B.161 is received by the State Department of Energy. 

       (b) For a
transferee holding a credit that has been transferred under ORS 469B.148 or
469B.154, the five-year period shall begin with the tax year in which the
transferee pays for the credit. 

       (2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, for a facility using or
producing renewable energy resources with a certified cost that exceeds $10
million and that receives final certification under ORS 469B.161 after January
1, 2010: 

       (a) The five-year
period prescribed in subsection (1)(a) of this section shall begin with the tax
year immediately following the tax year during which the completed application
for final certification of the facility under ORS 469B.161 is received by the
department. 

       (b) If claimed by
a transferee, the first of five tax years in which the transferee may claim the
credit is the tax year in which the transferee paid for the credit or the tax
year prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subsection, whichever is later. 

       (c) An
application shall be considered complete without the identification of a
transferee for purposes of ORS 469B.148 or 469B.154. 

       (3) If the
original owner of the certificate uses any portion of the credit, the
certificate becomes nontransferable. [Formerly 469.220] 

   

       469B.169
Suspension or revocation of certificate; forfeiture of tax credits; collection. (1) Under the procedures for a
contested case under ORS chapter 183, the Director of the State Department of
Energy may order the suspension or revocation of the certificate issued under
ORS 469B.161 if the director finds that: 

       (a) The
certification was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation; 

       (b) The holder of
the certificate or the operator of the facility has failed to construct or
operate the facility in compliance with the plans, specifications and
procedures in the certificate; or 

       (c) The facility
is no longer in operation. 

       (2) As soon as
the order of revocation under this section becomes final, the director shall
notify the Department of Revenue, the facility owner, contract purchaser or
lessee and any transferee under ORS 469B.148 of the order of revocation. 

       (3) If the
certificate is ordered revoked pursuant to subsection (1)(a) of this section,
all prior tax credits provided to the holder of the certificate by virtue of
the certificate shall be forfeited and upon notification under subsection (2)
of this section the Department of Revenue immediately shall proceed to collect
those taxes not paid by the certificate holder as a result of the tax credits
provided to the holder under ORS 315.354. 

       (4)(a) The
Department of Revenue shall have the benefit of all laws of this state
pertaining to the collection of income and excise taxes and may proceed to
collect the amounts described in subsection (3) of this section from the person
that obtained certification from the State Department of Energy or any
successor in interest to the business interests of that person. No assessment
of tax shall be necessary and no statute of limitation shall preclude the
collection of taxes described in this subsection. 

       (b) For purposes
of this subsection, a lender, bankruptcy trustee or other person that acquires
an interest through bankruptcy or through foreclosure of a security interest is
not considered to be a successor in interest to the business interests of the person
that obtained certification from the State Department of Energy. 

       (5) If the
certificate is ordered revoked pursuant to subsection (1)(b) of this section,
the certificate holder shall be denied any further relief under ORS 315.354 in
connection with the facility from and after the date that the order of
revocation becomes final. 

       (6)
Notwithstanding subsections (1) to (5) of this section, a certificate or
portion of a certificate held by a transferee under ORS 469B.148 may not be
considered revoked for purposes of the transferee, the tax credit allowable to
the transferee under ORS 315.354 may not be reduced and a transferee is not
liable under subsections (3) and (4) of this section. [Formerly 469.225] 

   

       469B.171
Assistance with facility purchase for investor-owned utility customers. (1) An investor-owned utility may
offer cash payments to assist the utility’s commercial and industrial customers
in purchasing a facility as defined in ORS 469B.130, including but not limited
to an alternative fuel vehicle refueling station. The utility may pay the
customer the present value to the utility of the tax credit to which the
customer would be entitled under ORS 469B.130 to 469B.169. 

       (2) As used in
this section, “cash payment” and “investor-owned utility” have the meanings
given those terms in ORS 469.631. [Formerly 469.878] 

   

 RENEWABLE ENERGY
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS 

   

       469B.250
Definitions for ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265. As used in ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265: 

       (1) “Biomass” has
the meaning given that term in ORS 315.141. 

       (2) “Cost” means
the actual cost of the acquisition, construction and installation of the
renewable energy production system paid by the applicant for the system, before
considering utility incentives. 

       (3) “Renewable
energy production system” means a system that uses biomass, solar, geothermal,
hydroelectric, wind, landfill gas, biogas or wave, tidal or ocean thermal
energy technology to produce energy. 

       (4) “Solar
technology” means any system, mechanism or series of mechanisms, including
photovoltaic systems, that uses solar radiation to generate electrical energy. [2011
c.730 §27] 

   

       469B.253
Application for grant; fees. 
(1) Prior to the installation or construction of a renewable energy production
system, any person may apply to the State Department of Energy for a grant
under ORS 469B.256 if: 

       (a) The applicant
will be the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the system at the time of
installation or construction of the proposed system; 

       (b) The system
does not exceed 35 megawatts of nameplate capacity; 

       (c) The system is
located in Oregon; and 

       (d) The system
complies with the standards or rules adopted by the Director of the State
Department of Energy. 

       (2) An
application for a grant under ORS 469B.256 shall be made in writing on a form
prepared by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A detailed
description of the system and its operation and information showing that the
system will operate as represented in the application and remain in operation
for at least five years, unless the director by rule specifies another period
of operation. 

       (b) The
anticipated total system cost. 

       (c) Information
on the number and type of jobs, directly connected to the awarding of the
grant, that will be: 

       (A) Created by
the system; and 

       (B) Sustained
throughout the construction, installation and operation of the system. 

       (d) Information
demonstrating that the system will comply with applicable state and local laws
and regulations and obtain required licenses and permits. 

       (e) Any other
information the director considers necessary to determine whether the system is
in accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265, and any
applicable rules or standards adopted by the director. 

       (3) An
application for a grant shall be accompanied by a fee established under ORS
469B.259. The director may refund all or a portion of the fee if the
application for a grant is rejected. 

       (4) The director
may allow an applicant to file the application for a grant after the start of
installation or construction of the system if the director finds that: 

       (a) Filing the
application before the start of installation or construction is inappropriate
because special circumstances render filing earlier unreasonable; and 

       (b) The system
would otherwise qualify for a grant under ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265. [2011 c.730
§29; 2012 c.45 §4] 

   

       469B.256 Grant
award; performance agreement; denial; limitations; forfeiture. (1) The Director of the State
Department of Energy may require an applicant for a grant under this section
for a renewable energy production system to submit plans, specifications and
contract terms, and after examination of the plans, specifications and terms
may request corrections and revisions. 

       (2) If the
director determines that the system is technically feasible and should operate
in accordance with the representations made by the applicant, and is in
accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265 and any applicable
rules or standards adopted by the director, the director may enter into a
performance agreement with the applicant and award a grant under this section
to the applicant. The grant provided for in the performance agreement may not
exceed 35 percent of the cost of the project and may not exceed $250,000 per
system. If construction does not begin within 12 months of an award under this
section, the performance agreement shall be void and the State Department of
Energy shall revoke the grant. 

       (3) The director
may, in accordance with ORS chapter 183, deny a grant under this section if the
director determines that: 

       (a) The system
does not comply with the provisions of ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265 and applicable
rules and standards; 

       (b) The applicant
was directly involved in an act for which the director has levied civil
penalties or revoked, canceled or suspended any certification under ORS 315.326
or 469B.130 to 469B.169, or any grant under ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265; or 

       (c) The applicant
or the principal, director, officer, owner, majority shareholder or member of
the applicant, or the manager of the applicant if the applicant is a limited
liability company, is in arrears for payments owed to any government agency
while in any capacity with direct or indirect control over a business. 

       (4) The
department shall reduce the amount of grant allowable to an applicant if, when
combined with other government incentives or grants available to the applicant,
the amount calculated under subsection (2) of this section exceeds 75 percent
of the total system cost calculated under this section. 

       (5) Upon
determination by the director that the applicant has violated the provisions of
the performance agreement or ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265, the applicant will be
liable to the department for all grant moneys disbursed to the applicant. [2011
c.730 §30; 2012 c.45 §1] 

   

       469B.259 Grant
application fees; rules. 
By rule and after hearing, the Director of the State Department of Energy may
adopt a schedule of reasonable fees that the State Department of Energy may
require of applicants for a grant for a renewable energy production system
under ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265 or for tax credit certification under ORS
315.326. Before the adoption or revision of the fees, the department shall
estimate the total cost of the program to the department. The fees shall be
used to recover the anticipated cost of administering and enforcing the
provisions of ORS 469B.250 to 469B.265, including filing, investigating,
granting and rejecting applications for grant or tax credit certification and
ensuring compliance with ORS 315.326, 315.329 and 469B.250 to 469B.265 and
shall be designed not to exceed the total cost estimated by the department. Any
excess fees shall be held by the department and shall be used by the department
to reduce any future fee increases. The fee may vary according to the size and
complexity of the system. The fee is not considered part of the cost of the
system for which a grant is being sought. [2011 c.730 §31] 

   

       469B.262
Limitations on amount of potential tax credits for certified renewable energy
development contributions; allocation; rules. (1) The total amount of potential tax credits for
certified renewable energy development contributions in this state may not, at
the time of certification under ORS 315.326, exceed: 

       (a) $3 million
for any biennium; or 

       (b) $750,000 for
the six months beginning July 1, 2017, and ending December 31, 2017. 

       (2) In the event
that the Director of the State Department of Energy receives applications for
grants under ORS 469B.256 in excess of the contributions received pursuant to
ORS 315.326, the director shall allocate the issuance of grants according to
standards and criteria established by rule by the director. [2011 c.730 §32] 

   

       469B.265
Policies and procedures; standards for single renewable energy production
system; rules. The
State Department of Energy shall by rule establish policies and procedures for
the administration and enforcement of the provisions of ORS 315.326, 315.329
and 469B.250 to 469B.265, including standards for what constitutes a single
renewable energy production system. [2011 c.730 §33] 

   

 ENERGY CONSERVATION
PROJECTS 

   

       469B.270
Definitions for ORS 315.331 and 469B.270 to 469B.306. As used in ORS 315.331 and
469B.270 to 469B.306: 

       (1) “Cost” means
the capital costs and expenses necessarily incurred in the acquisition,
erection, construction and installation of an energy conservation project. 

       (2) “Energy
conservation project” means any capital investment for which the first year
energy savings yields a simple payback period of greater than three years. “Energy
conservation project” does not include: 

       (a) Recycling
equipment, products and projects; 

       (b)
Transportation projects; 

       (c) Energy
recovery as that term is defined in ORS 459.005; or 

       (d) Alternative
fuel vehicles. 

       (3) “Four globes”
means the highest of four tiers of ratings for certification in the Green
Globes program rating system. 

       (4) “Green Globes
program” means a building guidance and assessment program to advance overall
environmental performance and sustainability of commercial buildings
established by the Green Building Initiative. 

       (5)(a) “LEED”
means the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system for
certification of energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable buildings
established by the U.S. Green Building Council. 

       (b) “LEED
Platinum” means the highest of four tiers of standards for certification in the
LEED rating system. [2011 c.730 §38] 

   

       469B.273
Preference given to certain projects; criteria. (1) In determining the priority of
any energy conservation project for tax credits, preference shall be given to
those projects that have the highest energy savings over the five-year credit
allowance period per tax credit dollar. 

       (2) In
administering this section, the Director of the State Department of Energy
shall compare projects of similar technology types against each other, take
into account the amount of energy saved over the life of the equipment, market
or industry sector, expected lifespan of the project compared to the simple
payback period, whether the energy savings of the project benefit a party other
than the owner and any other factors defined in State Department of Energy
rule. The department may certify less than the total cost of any project based
on this evaluation. [2011 c.730 §39] 

   

       469B.276
Transferability of project tax credit; recertification; determination of
prices; rules. (1)
The owner of a project may transfer a tax credit for the project in exchange
for a cash payment equal to the present value of the potential tax credit, as
determined at the time of the application for preliminary certification. If the
tax credit is subject to recertification, only that portion of the tax credit
that has been recertified may be transferred. 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy shall establish by rule a formula to be employed in the
determination of prices of credits transferred under this section. In
establishing the formula the department shall incorporate inflation projections
and market real rate of return. 

       (3) The
department shall recalculate credit transfer prices quarterly, employing the
formula established under subsection (2) of this section. [2011 c.730 §40; 2012
c.45 §20; 2015 c.545 §4] 

   

       469B.279
Standards for energy conservation projects; rules. The State Department of Energy
shall by rule establish the following standards relating to energy conservation
projects: 

       (1) In
consultation with the Department of Consumer and Business Services Building
Codes Division, standards relating to energy savings in new construction. 

       (2) Standards
relating to what constitutes a replacement of inefficient equipment. 

       (3) Standards for
the determination of total project cost. 

       (4) Standards for
the application of third party review of research and development projects by a
qualified third party selected by the Director of the State Department of
Energy, as required in ORS 469B.285. [2011 c.730 §41] 

   

       469B.282
Limitation on amount receiving preliminary certification. For an energy conservation
project, the total amount that receives a preliminary certification from the
Director of the State Department of Energy may not exceed $10 million in
certified cost. [2011 c.730 §42] 

   

       469B.285
Application for preliminary certification; eligibility; contents; fees;
certification to remain valid for three years; rules. (1) Prior to the installation or
construction of an energy conservation project, any person may apply to the
State Department of Energy for preliminary certification under ORS 469B.288 if: 

       (a) The project
complies with the standards adopted by the Director of the State Department of
Energy; and 

       (b) The applicant
will be the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the project at the time of
installation or construction of the project. 

       (2) An
application for preliminary certification shall be made in writing on a form
prepared by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the applicant plans to acquire, construct or install a project that
substantially reduces the consumption of purchased energy or uses energy more
efficiently. 

       (b) A detailed
description of the project and its operation and information showing that the
project will operate as represented in the application and remain in operation
for at least five years, unless the director by rule specifies another period
of operation. 

       (c) Information
on the amount by which consumption of purchased energy by the applicant will be
reduced, and, if applicable, information about the expected level of
sustainable building practices project performance. 

       (d) The
anticipated total project cost. 

       (e) Information
on the number and type of jobs, directly connected to the allowance of the
credit, that will be: 

       (A) Created by the
project; and 

       (B) Sustained
throughout the construction, installation and operation of the project. 

       (f) Information
demonstrating that the project will comply with applicable state and local laws
and regulations and obtain required licenses and permits. 

       (g) Information
relating to the standards described in ORS 469B.279. 

       (h) A
recommendation for a research and development project as demonstrative of
innovation that has been made by a qualified third party selected by the
director. 

       (i) Any other
information the director considers necessary to determine whether the project
is in accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306, and any
applicable rules or standards adopted by the director. 

       (3) An
application for preliminary certification shall be accompanied by a fee
established under ORS 469B.294. The director may refund all or a portion of the
fee if the application for certification is rejected. 

       (4) The director
may allow an applicant to file the application for preliminary certification
after the start of installation or construction of the project if the director
finds that: 

       (a) Filing the
application before the start of installation or construction is inappropriate
because special circumstances render filing earlier unreasonable; and 

       (b) The project
would otherwise qualify for certification under ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306. 

       (5) The director
may, by rule, waive preliminary certification under ORS 469B.288, or may
establish an informational filing system in place of preliminary certification,
for projects that: 

       (a) Have eligible
costs of less than $20,000; 

       (b) Consist of
measures that the director determines to be eligible for waiver of preliminary
certification; and 

       (c) Comply with
any other requirements established by the director. 

       (6) A preliminary
certification shall remain valid for a period of three calendar years after the
date on which the preliminary certification is issued by the director, after
which the certification becomes invalid even if: 

       (a) The applicant
is awaiting identification of a pass-through partner; or 

       (b) The
preliminary certification has been amended. [2011 c.730 §43; 2012 c.45 §21] 

   

       469B.288
Submissions for preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension
or denial of preliminary certification. (1) The Director of the State Department of Energy
may require an applicant for certification of an energy conservation project to
submit plans, specifications and contract terms, and after examination of the
plans, specifications and terms may request corrections and revisions. 

       (2) If the
director determines that the project is technically feasible and should operate
in accordance with the representations made by the applicant, and is in
accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306 and any applicable
rules or standards adopted by the director, the director may issue a
preliminary certificate approving the installation or construction of the
project. The certificate shall indicate the potential amount of tax credit
allowable and shall list any conditions for claiming the credit. 

       (3) In accordance
with ORS chapter 183, the director may issue an order altering, conditioning,
suspending or denying preliminary certification if the director determines
that: 

       (a) The project
does not comply with the provisions of ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306 and applicable
rules and standards; 

       (b) The applicant
has previously received preliminary or final certification for the project; 

       (c) The applicant
was directly involved in an act for which the director has levied civil
penalties or revoked, canceled or suspended any certification under ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169 or 469B.270 to 469B.306; or 

       (d) The applicant
or the principal, director, officer, owner, majority shareholder or member of
the applicant, or the manager of the applicant if the applicant is a limited
liability company, is in arrears for payments owed to any government agency
while in any capacity with direct or indirect control over a business. [2011
c.730 §44] 

   

       469B.291 Final
certification; eligibility; contents of application; performance agreement;
rules. (1) The
Director of the State Department of Energy may issue a final certification for
an energy conservation project under this section only if: 

       (a) The project
was installed or constructed under a preliminary certificate of approval issued
under ORS 469B.288, unless preliminary certification is waived under ORS
469B.285 (5); 

       (b) The applicant
demonstrates the ability to provide the information required by ORS 469B.285
(2) and does not violate any condition that may be imposed as described in
subsections (4) and (5) of this section; and 

       (c) The project
was installed or constructed in accordance with the applicable provisions of
ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306 and any applicable rules or standards adopted by the
director. 

       (2) Any person
may apply to the State Department of Energy for final certification of a
project: 

       (a) If the person
received preliminary certification for the project under ORS 469B.288; and 

       (b) After
completion of the installation or construction of the project. 

       (3) An
application for final certification shall be made in writing on a form prepared
by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the conditions of the preliminary certification have been complied with; 

       (b) The actual
cost of the project attested to by a certified public accountant who is not an
employee of the applicant or, if the actual cost of the project is less than
$50,000, copies of receipts for purchase and installation of the project; 

       (c) The amount of
the credit under ORS 315.331 that is to be claimed; 

       (d) The number
and type of jobs, directly connected to the allowance of the credit, that will
be created by the operation and maintenance of the project over the five-year
period beginning with the year of preliminary certification under ORS 469B.288; 

       (e) Information
sufficient to demonstrate that the project will remain in operation for at
least five years, unless the director by rule specifies another period of
operation; 

       (f) Documentation
of compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations and
licensing and permitting requirements as defined by the director; 

       (g) Information,
if applicable, pertaining to prior recommendation of the project by a qualified
third party selected by the director; and 

       (h) Any other
information determined by the director to be necessary prior to issuance of a
final certificate, including inspection of the project by the department. 

       (4) As part of
the final certification process, the director may require the applicant to
enter into a performance agreement with the department. The performance
agreement may include a recertification requirement under ORS 469B.298 and any
additional requirements that the director determines are appropriate to promote
the purposes of ORS 315.331 and 469B.270 to 469B.306. 

       (5) After the
filing of the application under this section, the director may issue the
certificate together with any conditions, including conditions imposed by a
performance agreement, that the director determines are appropriate to promote
the purposes of ORS 315.331 and 469B.270 to 469B.306. If the applicant is an
entity subject to regulation by the Public Utility Commission, the director may
consult with the commission prior to issuance of the certificate. The action of
the director shall include certification of the actual cost of the project.
However, the director may not certify an amount for tax credit purposes that is
more than the amount approved in the preliminary certificate issued for the
project. 

       (6) Except as
otherwise provided in ORS 469B.298, if the director rejects an application for
final certification, or certifies a lesser amount of credit than was claimed in
the application, the director shall send to the applicant written notice of the
action, together with a statement of the findings and reasons for the action,
by certified mail, before the 60th day after the filing of the application.
Failure of the director to act constitutes rejection of the application. 

       (7) Upon approval
of an application for final certification of a project, the director shall
certify the project. The final certification shall indicate the amount of
projected energy savings attributable to the project and the total project
cost. 

       (8) The director
may establish by rule timelines and intermediate deadlines for submission of
application materials. [2011 c.730 §45; 2012 c.45 §22; 2015 c.545 §5] 

   

       469B.294 Fees
for certification or recertification; rules. By rule and after hearing, the Director of the State
Department of Energy may adopt a schedule of reasonable fees that the State
Department of Energy may require of applicants for preliminary or final
certification or recertification of an energy conservation project under ORS
469B.270 to 469B.306. Before the adoption or revision of the fees, the
department shall estimate the total cost of the program to the department. The
fees shall be used to recover the anticipated cost of administering and enforcing
the provisions of ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306, including filing, investigating,
granting and rejecting applications for certification or recertification and
ensuring compliance with ORS 469B.270 to 469B.306 and shall be designed not to
exceed the total cost estimated by the department. Any excess fees shall be
held by the department and shall be used by the department to reduce any future
fee increases. The fee may vary according to the size and complexity of the
project. The fee is not considered part of the cost of the project to be
certified. [2011 c.730 §46; 2015 c.545 §6] 

   

       469B.297
Certificate required for tax credits; certification not to exceed five years;
recertification. 
(1) A certificate issued under ORS 469B.291 is required for purposes of
obtaining tax credits in accordance with ORS 315.331. Except as otherwise
provided in ORS 469B.298, such certification shall be granted for a period not
to exceed five years. The five-year period shall begin with the tax year of the
applicant during which the completed application for final certification of the
project under ORS 469B.291 is received by the State Department of Energy. If
required by the department in a performance agreement, the project owner shall
seek recertification during the five-year period, as provided in ORS 469B.298. 

       (2) If the
original owner of the certificate uses any portion of the credit, the
certificate becomes nontransferable. 

       (3) For a
transferee holding a credit that has been transferred under ORS 469B.276, the
five-year period shall begin with the tax year in which the transferee pays for
the credit. [2011 c.730 §47; 2015 c.545 §7] 

   

       469B.298
Recertification of eligibility. 
(1) An owner of an energy conservation project with a total project cost
certified under ORS 469B.291 of $1 million or more that is subject to a
recertification requirement in a performance agreement shall apply under this
section for recertification of eligibility for the tax credit allowed under ORS
315.331. 

       (2) The applicant
shall file an application for recertification with the State Department of
Energy at least 60 days prior to the anniversary date of the issuance of the
final certificate. The Director of the State Department of Energy may require
recertification for the three years following the date of the issuance of the
final certificate. 

       (3) The
recertification application shall contain the following information: 

       (a) A description
of the business operations conducted at the facility and any changes in the
business operations since the project was completed; 

       (b) Energy
consumption for the project or facility as shown in the preceding 12 months of
utility billing records; 

       (c) A statement
signed by the applicant attesting that the project is in compliance with all
applicable laws related to the ownership and operation of the project; 

       (d) A statement
signed by the project owner attesting that the project owner is current on all
obligations to the state, including but not limited to taxes and permitting
fees; 

       (e) An inspection
of the project by the department, if required by the department; and 

       (f) Any other
information required by the department. 

       (4) A
recertification application filed under this section must be accompanied by the
fee established under ORS 469B.294. 

       (5) The
department shall review the recertification application and approve the
application if it meets the requirements of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section and the project is in compliance with all applicable statutes and
administrative rules and with the performance agreement. 

       (6) The
department may consult with the city or county in which the facility is located
or with any state agency in determining whether to approve a recertification
application under this section. 

       (7) If the
director approves a recertification application, the director shall issue a
recertification of eligibility for a tax credit under ORS 315.331 for up to 10
percent of the total project cost certified under ORS 469B.291. The director
may deny the recertification or issue a recertification in an amount of credit
less than 10 percent of the total project cost certified under ORS 469B.291 if
the director determines that the project is not in compliance with all
applicable statutes and administrative rules and with the performance
agreement. 

       (8) If the
director does not approve a recertification application or reduces the amount
of tax credit, the project owner may not claim, use or transfer that portion of
the tax credit for which the recertification was denied. 

       (9) A person
aggrieved by a decision of the director to deny or reduce the amount of a
recertification for a tax credit may request and be granted a contested case
hearing under ORS chapter 183. [2015 c.545 §2] 

   

       469B.300
Suspension or revocation of certificate or portion of certificate. (1) The Director of the State
Department of Energy may order the suspension or revocation of a certificate or
a portion of a certificate issued under ORS 469B.291, as provided in ORS
315.061: 

       (a) For the
reasons set forth in ORS 315.061; or 

       (b) If the
director finds that: 

       (A) The holder of
the certificate or the operator of the project has failed to construct or
operate the project in compliance with the plans, specifications and contract
terms in the certificate; or 

       (B) The project
is no longer in operation. 

       (2) If the
project owner is subject to a performance agreement requiring recertification
under ORS 469B.298, the certificate shall be considered revoked as to any
portion of the tax credit that has not previously received approval under a
recertification application that was required to have been filed pursuant to
ORS 469B.298. [2011 c.730 §48; 2015 c.545 §8; 2019 c.483 §13] 

   

       469B.303
Limitations on amount of potential tax credits for energy conservation
projects; allocation; rules. 
(1) The total amount of potential tax credits for all energy conservation
projects in this state may not, at the time of preliminary certification under
ORS 469B.288, exceed: 

       (a) $28 million
for any biennium; or 

       (b) $7.5 million
for the six months beginning July 1, 2017, and ending December 31, 2017. 

       (2) In the event
that the Director of the State Department of Energy receives applications for
preliminary certification with a total amount of certified costs for potential
tax credits in excess of the limitations in subsection (1) of this section, the
director shall allocate the issuance of preliminary certifications according to
standards and criteria established by rule by the director. [2011 c.730 §49] 

   

       469B.306
Policies and procedures; standards for single energy conservation project;
rules. The State
Department of Energy shall by rule establish policies and procedures for the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of ORS 315.331 and 469B.270 to
469B.306 and section 36, chapter 730, Oregon Laws 2011, including standards for
what constitutes a single energy conservation project. [2011 c.730 §50] 

   

 TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS 

   

       469B.320
Definitions for ORS 315.336 and 469B.320 to 469B.347. As used in ORS 315.336 and
469B.320 to 469B.347: 

       (1) “Acquisition
of an alternative fuel vehicle fleet” includes the replacement of two or more
vehicles that are not used primarily for personal, family or household
purposes, that are modified or acquired directly from the factory and that: 

       (a) Use an
alternative fuel, including electricity, biofuel, gasohol with at least 20
percent denatured alcohol content, hydrogen, Hythane, methane, methanol,
natural gas, propane or any other fuel approved by the Director of the State
Department of Energy as an alternative fuel; and 

       (b) Produce lower
exhaust emissions, or are more energy efficient, than equivalent vehicles
fueled by gasoline or diesel. 

       (2) “Alternative
fuel vehicle infrastructure project” includes a facility for mixing, storing,
compressing or dispensing fuels for alternative fuel vehicles, and any other
necessary and reasonable equipment. 

       (3) “Alternative
fuel vehicle project” means: 

       (a) The
acquisition of an alternative fuel vehicle fleet; or 

       (b) An
alternative fuel vehicle infrastructure project. 

       (4) “Cost”
includes capital expenditures and core expenses such as vehicle repair, fuel,
personnel and administrative expenses. 

       (5) “Transportation
project” means: 

       (a) Transit
services provided to members of the public by a public or nonprofit entity that
receives state or federal funding for those services, or is the direct
recipient of funding from an entity that receives state or federal funding for
the services; or 

       (b) An
alternative fuel vehicle project. [2011 c.730 §56; 2012 c.45 §7; 2013 c.774 §13] 

   

       469B.323
Transferability of project tax credit; determination of prices; rules. (1) The owner of a transportation
project may transfer a tax credit for the project in exchange for a cash
payment equal to the present value of the tax credit. 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy shall establish by rule a formula to be employed in the
determination of prices of credits transferred under this section. In
establishing the formula the department shall incorporate inflation projections
and market real rate of return. 

       (3) The
department shall recalculate credit transfer prices quarterly, employing the
formula established under subsection (2) of this section. [2011 c.730 §57] 

   

       469B.326
Application for preliminary certification; eligibility; contents; fees;
certification to remain valid for three years; rules. (1) Prior to the acquisition or
performance of a transportation project, a person may apply to the State
Department of Energy for preliminary certification for the project under ORS
469B.329 if: 

       (a) The project
complies with the standards adopted by the Director of the State Department of
Energy; and 

       (b) The applicant
will be the owner, contract purchaser or lessee of the project at the time of
acquisition or performance of the project. 

       (2) An
application for preliminary certification shall be made in writing on a form
prepared by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the applicant plans to acquire or perform a project that substantially
reduces the consumption of purchased petroleum energy. 

       (b) A detailed
description of the project and its operation and information showing that the
project will operate as represented in the application and remain in operation
for at least five years, unless the director by rule specifies another period
of operation. 

       (c) Information
on the amount by which consumption of purchased petroleum energy by the
applicant will be reduced, and, if applicable, information about the expected
level of project performance. 

       (d) The
anticipated total project cost. 

       (e) Information
on the number and types of jobs, directly connected to the allowance of the
credit, that will be: 

       (A) Created by
the project; and 

       (B) Sustained
throughout the acquisition and performance of the project. 

       (f) Information
demonstrating that the project will comply with applicable state and local laws
and regulations and obtain required licenses and permits. 

       (g) Any other
information the director considers necessary to determine whether the project
is in accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347, and any
applicable rules or standards adopted by the director. 

       (3) An
application for preliminary certification shall be accompanied by a fee
established under ORS 469B.335. The director may refund all or a portion of the
fee if the application for certification is rejected. 

       (4) The director
may allow an applicant to file the application for preliminary certification
after the start of acquisition or performance of the project if the director
finds that: 

       (a) Filing the
application before the start of acquisition or performance is inappropriate
because special circumstances render filing earlier unreasonable; and 

       (b) The project
would otherwise qualify for certification under ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347. 

       (5) A preliminary
certification shall remain valid for a period of three calendar years after the
date on which the preliminary certification is issued by the director, after
which the certification becomes invalid even if: 

       (a) The applicant
is awaiting identification of a pass-through partner; or 

       (b) The
preliminary certification has been amended. [2011 c.730 §58; 2012 c.45 §8] 

   

       469B.329
Submissions for preliminary certification; alteration, conditions, suspension
or denial of preliminary certification. (1) The Director of the State Department of Energy
may require an applicant for certification of a transportation project to
submit plans, specifications and contract terms, and after examination of the
plans, specifications and terms may request corrections and revisions. 

       (2) If the
director determines that the project is technically feasible and should operate
in accordance with the representations made by the applicant, and is in
accordance with the provisions of ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347 and any applicable
rules or standards adopted by the director, the director may issue a
preliminary certificate approving the acquisition or performance of the
project. The certificate shall indicate the potential amount of tax credit
allowable and shall list any conditions for claiming the credit. 

       (3) In accordance
with ORS chapter 183, the director may issue an order altering, conditioning,
suspending or denying preliminary certification if the director determines
that: 

       (a) The project
does not comply with the provisions of ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347 and applicable
rules and standards; 

       (b) The applicant
has previously received preliminary or final certification for the project; 

       (c) The applicant
was directly involved in an act for which the director has levied civil
penalties or revoked, canceled or suspended any certification under ORS
469B.130 to 469B.169 or 469B.320 to 469B.347; or 

       (d) The applicant
or the principal, director, officer, owner, majority shareholder or member of
the applicant, or the manager of the applicant if the applicant is a limited
liability company, is in arrears for payments owed to any government agency
while in any capacity with direct or indirect control over a business. [2011
c.730 §59] 

   

       469B.332 Final
certification; eligibility; contents of application; rules. (1) A final certification for a
transportation project may not be issued by the Director of the State
Department of Energy under this section unless: 

       (a) The project
was acquired or performed under a preliminary certificate of approval issued
under ORS 469B.329; 

       (b) The applicant
demonstrates the ability to provide the information required by ORS 469B.326
(2) and does not violate any condition that may be imposed as described in
subsection (4) of this section; and 

       (c) The project
was acquired or performed in accordance with the applicable provisions of ORS
469B.320 to 469B.347 and any applicable rules or standards adopted by the
director. 

       (2) A person may
apply to the State Department of Energy for final certification of a project: 

       (a) If the person
received preliminary certification for the project under ORS 469B.329; and 

       (b) After
completion of the acquisition or performance of the project. 

       (3) An
application for final certification shall be made in writing on a form prepared
by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) A statement
that the conditions of the preliminary certification have been complied with; 

       (b)(A) The actual
cost of the project attested to by a certified public accountant who is not an
employee of the applicant or the applicant’s completed audit in compliance with
federal Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133; or 

       (B) If the actual
cost of the project is less than $50,000, copies of receipts for acquisition
and performance of the project; 

       (c) The amount of
the credit under ORS 315.336 that is to be claimed; 

       (d) The number
and types of jobs, directly connected to the allowance of the credit, created
by the acquisition and performance of the project over the five-year period
beginning on the date of issuance of the preliminary certification under ORS
469B.329; 

       (e) Information
sufficient to demonstrate that the project will remain in operation for at
least five years, unless the director by rule specifies another period of
operation; 

       (f) Documentation
of compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations and
licensing and permitting requirements as defined by the director; and 

       (g) Any other
information determined by the director to be necessary prior to issuance of a
final certificate, including inspection of the project by the department. 

       (4) After the
filing of the application under this section, the director may issue the
certificate together with any conditions that the director determines are
appropriate to promote the purposes of ORS 315.336 and 469B.320 to 469B.347. If
the applicant is an entity subject to regulation by the Public Utility
Commission, the director may consult with the commission prior to issuance of
the certificate. The action of the director shall include certification of the
actual cost of the project. However, the director may not certify an amount for
tax credit purposes that is more than the amount of credit approved in the
preliminary certificate issued for the project. 

       (5) If the
director rejects an application for final certification, or certifies a lesser
amount of credit than was claimed in the application, the director shall send
to the applicant written notice of the action, together with a statement of the
findings and reasons for the action, by certified mail, before the 60th day
after the filing of the application. Failure of the director to act constitutes
rejection of the application. 

       (6) Upon approval
of an application for final certification of a project, the director shall
certify the project. The final certification shall indicate the amount of
projected energy savings attributable to the project and the certified cost of
the project. 

       (7) The director
may establish by rule timelines and intermediate deadlines for submission of
application materials. [2011 c.730 §60; 2012 c.45 §9] 

   

       469B.335 Fees
for certification; rules. 
By rule and after hearing, the Director of the State Department of Energy may
adopt a schedule of reasonable fees that the State Department of Energy may
require of applicants for preliminary or final certification of a
transportation project under ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347. Before the adoption or
revision of the fees, the department shall estimate the total cost of the
program to the department. The fees shall be used to recover the anticipated
cost of administering and enforcing the provisions of ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347,
including filing, investigating, granting and rejecting applications for
certification and ensuring compliance with ORS 469B.320 to 469B.347 and shall
be designed not to exceed the total cost estimated by the department. Any
excess fees shall be held by the department and shall be used by the department
to reduce any future fee increases. The fee may vary according to the size and
complexity of the project. The fee is not considered part of the cost of the
project to be certified. [2011 c.730 §61] 

   

       469B.338
Certificate required for tax credits; certification not to exceed five years. (1) A certificate issued under ORS
469B.332 is required for purposes of obtaining tax credits in accordance with
ORS 315.336. Such certification shall be granted for a period not to exceed
five years. The five-year period shall begin with the tax year of the applicant
during which the completed application for final certification of the
transportation project under ORS 469B.332 is received by the State Department
of Energy. 

       (2) If the
original owner of the certificate uses any portion of the credit, the
certificate becomes nontransferable. 

       (3) For a
transferee holding a credit that has been transferred under ORS 469B.323, the
five-year period shall begin with the tax year in which the transferee pays for
the credit. [2011 c.730 §62] 

   

       469B.341
Suspension or revocation of certificate or portion of certificate. The Director of the State
Department of Energy may order the suspension or revocation of a certificate or
a portion of a certificate issued under ORS 469B.332, as provided in ORS
315.061, for the reasons set forth in ORS 315.061 or if the director finds
that: 

       (1) The holder of
the certificate or the operator of the transportation project has failed to
acquire or perform the project in compliance with the plans, specifications and
contract terms in the certificate; or 

       (2) The project
is no longer in operation. [2011 c.730 §63; 2019 c.483 §14] 

   

       469B.344
Limitation on amount of potential tax credits for transportation projects. (1)(a) The total amount of
potential tax credits for all transportation projects in this state may not, at
the time of preliminary certification under ORS 469B.329, exceed $20 million
for any biennium. 

       (b) For each tax
year, the Director of the State Department of Energy may allocate a percentage
of the amount allowed in paragraph (a) of this subsection to alternative fuel
vehicle projects and a percentage to transit services. 

       (2)
Notwithstanding ORS 315.336, in the event that the director receives
applications for preliminary certification with a total amount of potential tax
credits in excess of the limits set by the director pursuant to subsection
(1)(b) of this section, the director shall allocate the issuance of preliminary
certifications among applicants as follows: 

       (a) If an excess
of applications for credits for transit services is received, the director
shall allocate the issuance of preliminary certifications among applicants for
credits for transit services and proportionately reduce the amount of allowed
credit, with no applicant receiving more than 20 percent of the amount
established under subsection (1)(b) of this section for transit services. 

       (b) The director
may allocate the issuance of preliminary certifications among applicants for
credits for alternative fuel vehicle projects and may award credits for less
than the amount otherwise allowed applicants. 

       (c) If, after
making any reductions required under paragraph (a) of this subsection, an
unallocated amount remains, the director shall allocate this additional amount
among applicants affected by the percentage restriction in paragraph (a) of
this subsection. [2011 c.730 §64; 2012 c.45 §10; 2013 c.774 §15] 

   

       469B.347
Policies and procedures; standards for single transportation project; rules. The State Department of Energy
shall by rule establish policies and procedures for the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of ORS 315.336 and 469B.320 to 469B.347,
including standards for what constitutes a single transportation project. [2011
c.730 §65] 

   

 BIOFUELS AND BIOMASS 

   

       469B.400 Fuel
blends and solid biofuels; qualification for tax credits; rules. The State Department of Energy
shall by rule identify categories of fuel blend and solid biofuel that qualify
for the personal income tax credit allowed under ORS 315.465. [Formerly
469.785] 

   

       469B.403
Biomass; eligibility for tax credits; rates. To be eligible for the tax credit under ORS 315.141,
the biomass must be produced or collected in Oregon as a feedstock for
bioenergy or biofuel production in Oregon. The credit rates for biomass are: 

       (1) For oilseed
crops, $0.05 per pound. 

       (2) For grain
crops, including but not limited to wheat, barley and triticale, $0.90 per
bushel. 

       (3) For virgin
oil or alcohol delivered for production in Oregon from Oregon-based feedstock,
$0.10 per gallon. 

       (4) For used
cooking oil or waste grease, $0.10 per gallon. 

       (5) For
wastewater biosolids, $10.00 per wet ton. 

       (6) For woody
biomass collected from nursery, orchard, agricultural, forest or rangeland
property in Oregon, including but not limited to prunings, thinning, plantation
rotations, log landing or slash resulting from harvest or forest health
stewardship, $10.00 per bone dry ton. 

       (7) For grass,
wheat, straw or other vegetative biomass from agricultural crops, $10.00 per
bone dry ton. 

       (8) For animal
manure or rendering offal, $3.50 per wet ton. [Formerly 469.790; 2016 c.29 §12] 

   

       Note: Section 6, chapter 739, Oregon
Laws 2007, provides: 

       Sec. 6. (1) ORS 315.141, 315.144 and
469B.403 apply to tax credits for tax years beginning on or after January 1,
2007, and before January 1, 2018. 

       (2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a tax credit is not allowed for
wheat grain (other than nongrain wheat material) for tax years beginning before
January 1, 2009, or on or after January 1, 2018. [2007 c.739 §6; 2007 c.590 §5;
2009 c.913 §18; 2011 c.730 §2; 2016 c.29 §11; 2017 c.610 §12] 

   

 SOLAR SYSTEMS 

   

       Note: Sections 1 to 5, chapter 655,
Oregon Laws 2019, provide: 

       Sec. 1. As used in sections 1 to 4,
chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019: 

       (1) “Contractor”
means a person whose trade or business consists of offering for sale solar
electric systems or paired solar and storage systems or of providing
construction, installation or design services for solar electric systems or
paired solar and storage systems. 

       (2) “Electric
utility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 757.600. 

       (3) “Energy
storage system” means commercially available technology that is capable of
retaining energy, storing the energy for a period of time and transmitting the
energy after storage. 

       (4) “Low-income
service provider” means a nonresidential customer that provides health, dental,
social, financial, energy conservation or other assistive services to low or
moderate income persons or low or moderate income households, as further
defined by the State Department of Energy by rule. 

       (5) “Net cost”
means the actual cost of the purchase, construction and installation of a solar
electric system or a paired solar and storage system, minus any incentive
received for the system from the electric utility serving the customer for
which the system is installed. 

       (6) “Pair” means
pairing an energy storage system with a solar electric system such that the
energy storage system provides storage capacity for electrical energy produced
by the solar electric system. 

       (7) “Paired solar
and storage system” means a solar electric system and an energy storage system
purchased together, constructed and installed by the same contractor and paired
such that the energy storage system provides storage capacity for electrical
energy produced by the solar electric system. 

       (8) “Solar
electric system” means any system, mechanism or series of mechanisms, including
photovoltaic systems, that uses solar radiation to generate electrical energy.
[2019 c.655 §1; 2023 c.442 §69; 2025 c.230 §1] 

       Sec. 2. (1)(a) The State Department of
Energy shall adopt by rule a program for providing rebates for the purchase,
construction or installation of: 

       (A) Solar
electric systems; 

       (B) Energy
storage systems that will be paired at the time of installation with previously
purchased and installed solar electric systems; and 

       (C) Paired solar
and storage systems. 

       (b) In adopting
rules for and administering the program, the State Department of Energy may
coordinate or consult with: 

       (A) The Housing
and Community Services Department and any other relevant state agencies; and 

       (B) Entities
including, but not limited to, nonprofit organizations and utilities. 

       (c) The State
Department of Energy shall make rebates available under the program to be
claimed by a contractor that constructs or installs a solar electric system, an
energy storage system or a paired solar and storage system, for a residential
customer or a low-income service provider, on real property in Oregon. A
contractor that claims a rebate under this section must use the full amount of
the rebate to reduce the net cost to the residential customer or low-income
service provider of the purchase, construction or installation of the solar
electric system, energy storage system or paired solar and storage system for
which the rebate is issued. 

       (2) Rebates under
the program shall be made from moneys credited to the Rooftop Solar Incentive
Fund established under section 3, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019. A rebate may
not be made unless there are sufficient moneys available in the fund to make
the rebate. 

       (3) Rules adopted
by the department under this section shall include but need not be limited to: 

       (a) Preferences
for providing rebates that benefit low and moderate income residential
customers and nonresidential customers that are low-income service providers; 

       (b) Provisions
for determining eligibility and verification of solar electric systems, energy
storage systems and paired solar and storage systems for purposes of the rebate
program; 

       (c) Policies and
procedures for the administration and enforcement of sections 1 to 4, chapter
655, Oregon Laws 2019, which may include policies and procedures for audits and
inspections; and 

       (d) Policies and
procedures for determining the rebate amounts available for solar electric
systems, energy storage systems and paired solar and storage systems. In
determining rebates amounts, the department: 

       (A) Shall
calculate the rebate amount per watt of installed capacity based on the
projected energy production of the constructed and installed solar electric
system or paired solar and storage system over a 20-year period; and 

       (B) Shall take
into consideration evolving market conditions. 

       (4) Rules adopted
by the department may include provisions for consumer protection. 

       (5) The amount
that may be claimed as a rebate under this section may not exceed the following
limits: 

       (a) For a system
installed for a low or moderate income residential customer that is: 

       (A) A solar
electric system, 60 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system or
$5,000, whichever is less; 

       (B) An energy
storage system, 60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or
$2,500, whichever is less; and 

       (C) A paired
solar and storage system, 60 percent of the net cost of the solar electric
system or $5,000, whichever is less, and an additional amount that is equal to
60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $2,500, whichever is
less. 

       (b) For a system
installed for a residential customer that is not low or moderate income that
is: 

       (A) A solar
electric system, 40 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system or
$5,000, whichever is less; 

       (B) An energy
storage system, 40 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or
$2,500, whichever is less; and 

       (C) A paired
solar and storage system, 40 percent of the net cost of the solar electric
system or $5,000, whichever is less, and an additional amount that is equal to
40 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $2,500, whichever is
less. 

       (c) For a system
installed for a low-income service provider that is: 

       (A) A solar
electric system, 50 percent of the net cost of the solar electric system or
$30,000, whichever is less; 

       (B) An energy
storage system, 60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or
$15,000, whichever is less; and 

       (C) A paired
solar and storage system, 60 percent of the net cost of the solar electric
system or $30,000, whichever is less, and an additional amount that is equal to
60 percent of the net cost of the energy storage system or $15,000, whichever
is less. 

       (6)(a) To be
eligible to claim a rebate on behalf of a customer under this section, a
contractor that constructs or installs a solar electric system, energy storage
system or a paired solar and storage system must, at the time of the
construction or installation: 

       (A) Hold any
license, bond, insurance or permit required to sell and construct or install
the solar electric system, energy storage system or paired solar and storage
system; and 

       (B) Meet any
other certification requirements set forth in rules adopted by the department. 

       (b) Pursuant to
the procedures for a contested case under ORS chapter 183, the Director of the
State Department of Energy may deny or revoke a contractor’s eligibility to
claim a rebate on behalf of a customer under this section if the director finds
that: 

       (A) The
contractor’s eligibility was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation by the
contractor; 

       (B) The
contractor’s performance for installation of solar electric systems, energy
storage systems or paired solar and storage systems does not meet industry
standards; or 

       (C) The
contractor has misrepresented to customers either the program established under
this section or the nature or quality of the solar electric systems, energy
storage systems or paired solar and storage systems for which rebates are
available. 

       (7) Prior to
commencing installation of a solar electric system, energy storage system or
paired solar and storage system, a contractor must apply to the department to
reserve a rebate on behalf of the customer for whom the solar electric system,
energy storage system or paired solar and storage system will be installed. 

       (8) To claim a
rebate reserved under subsection (7) of this section, the contractor that
reserved the rebate must submit to the department verification of the purchase,
construction or installation of the solar electric system, energy storage
system or paired solar and storage system. The verification required by this
section shall be made on a form provided by the department and shall contain: 

       (a) The location
of the solar electric system, energy storage system or paired solar and storage
system; 

       (b) A description
of the solar electric system, energy storage system or paired solar and storage
system; 

       (c) Evidence that
the contractor that constructed or installed the solar electric system, energy
storage system or paired solar and storage system has any license, bond,
insurance or permit and meets any other certification requirements required for
the sale and construction or installation of the solar electric system, energy
storage system or paired solar and storage system; 

       (d) A statement
signed by both the contractor and the customer for whom the solar electric
system, energy storage system or paired solar and storage system is installed
that the customer has received the full value of the rebate as a reduction in
the net cost of the purchase, construction or installation of the system and
that the rebate was clearly reflected on an invoice provided to the customer;
and 

       (e) Any other
information that the department determines is necessary. 

       (9)(a) Pursuant
to the procedures for a contested case under ORS chapter 183, the director may
order the revocation of a rebate or portion of a rebate made under this section
if the director finds that: 

       (A) The rebate
was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation; or 

       (B) The rebate
was obtained by mistake or miscalculation. 

       (b) As soon as
the order of revocation under this subsection becomes final, the department
immediately shall proceed to recover the rebate or portion of the rebate that
is the subject of the order of revocation. All moneys provided to a contractor
attributable to the fraudulently or mistakenly obtained rebate or portion of
the rebate shall be forfeited. [2019 c.655 §2; 2025 c.230 §2] 

       Sec. 3. (1) The Rooftop Solar Incentive
Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the
General Fund. Moneys in the Rooftop Solar Incentive Fund shall consist of: 

       (a) Amounts
donated to the fund; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly;
and 

       (c) Other amounts
deposited into the fund from any public or private source. 

       (2) Moneys in the
fund are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Energy to be used
to issue rebates pursuant to section 2, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019, and to
pay the costs and expenses of the department related to the administration and
implementation of sections 1 to 4, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019. 

       (3) Over the
course of a calendar year, no more than 50 percent of moneys available for
issuing rebates from the fund may be used to issue rebates for solar electric
systems, energy storage systems or paired solar and storage systems constructed
or installed for nonresidential customers. 

       (4) Over the
course of a calendar year, no more than 25 percent of moneys available for
issuing rebates from the fund may be used to issue rebates for energy storage
systems paired with previously purchased and installed solar electric systems. 

       (5) In each
calendar year, 25 percent of all moneys available for issuing rebates from the
fund must be reserved for rebates for solar electric systems, energy storage
systems or paired solar and storage systems constructed or installed for low or
moderate income residential customers and low-income service providers. If the
department was unable to obtain a sufficient number of approvable applications
to meet the requirements of this subsection in the previous calendar year, the
department may, in the current calendar year, issue rebates, in an amount that
does not exceed the 25 percent reserved for the prior calendar year less the
amount of rebates made to low or moderate income residential customers and
low-income service providers, to residential customers that are not low or
moderate income residential customers or low-income service providers. [2019
c.655 §3; 2025 c.230 §3] 

       Sec. 4. (1) No later than September 15 of
each year, the State Department of Energy shall provide a report to the
Legislative Assembly, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, on the rebates
claimed under section 2, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019, for solar electric
systems, energy storage systems and paired solar and storage systems during the
previous fiscal year. 

       (2) The report
shall detail: 

       (a) The number,
size and location of solar electric systems installed for residential customers
for which a rebate was claimed; 

       (b) The number,
size and location of solar electric systems installed for low-income service
providers for which a rebate was claimed; 

       (c) The number
and storage capacity of energy storage systems and paired solar and storage
systems installed for which a rebate was claimed; and 

       (d) The estimated
amount of greenhouse gas emissions reduced or avoided due to the installation
of systems for which rebates were claimed. 

       (3) The report
shall include a review by the department addressing whether the goals of the
rebate program are being met and recommendations on whether the rebate amount
limits set forth in section 2, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019, or the
percentages set forth in section 3, chapter 655, Oregon Laws 2019, should be
modified. 

       (4) The report
may include recommendations for legislation. [2019 c.655 §4; 2025 c.230 §4] 

       Sec. 5. (1) Sections 1 to 4, chapter 655,
Oregon Laws 2019, are repealed on January 2, 2029. 

       (2) Any moneys
remaining in the Rooftop Solar Incentive Fund on the date of the repeal
specified in subsection (1) of this section that are unexpended, unobligated
and not subject to any conditions shall be transferred to the General Fund.
[2019 c.655 §5; 2023 c.442 §68] 

   

       469B.407 [2016 c.29 §15; repealed by 2019
c.483 §25] 

   

 REBATES FOR HOME ENERGY
IMPROVEMENTS 

   

       469B.450
Rebates for home energy efficiency retrofits; rebates for high-efficiency
appliance and nonappliance upgrades. 
(1) The State Department of Energy, in consultation with the Housing and
Community Services Department, shall establish: 

       (a) A whole-home
energy savings program to provide rebates to individual homeowners, multifamily
building owners and aggregators for home energy efficiency retrofits; and 

       (b) A
high-efficiency electric home rebate program to provide rebates for the
purchase and installation of appliances and nonappliance upgrades. 

       (2) In
establishing a program under this section, the State Department of Energy
shall: 

       (a) Consult with
stakeholders, including consumer-owned utilities, as defined in ORS 757.270,
and investor-owned utilities, as defined in ORS 469.631; and 

       (b) Ensure the
program maximizes benefits for applicants by leveraging federal and state
resources. [2023 c.562 §8] 

   

 INCENTIVES FOR
RESIDENTIAL HEATING AND COOLING PROGRAMS 

   

 (Heat Pump Deployment
Program) 

   

       469B.460 Heat
Pump Deployment Program; eligibility requirements; performance agreement; use
of grant funds; reports; rules. 
(1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Bulk fuel”
means liquid petroleum, propane, coal, wood, wood-based products or other fuel
delivered and stored until used on-site by the final consumer to produce
energy. 

       (b) “Climate zone”
means a heating or cooling climate zone assigned to a county by the Bonneville
Power Administration. 

       (c) “Disadvantaged
community” means a community that has a socioeconomic burden and an
environmental, climate or other burden. 

       (d) “Electric
resistance heat” means heat produced by passing an electric current through a
material that has high resistance, such as used in an electric baseboard, wall
or space heater. 

       (e) “Electric
utility” has the meaning given that term in ORS 757.600. 

       (f) “Eligible
entity” means a: 

       (A) Local
government as defined in ORS 174.116; 

       (B) Local housing
authority; 

       (C) Nonprofit
organization; 

       (D) Federally
recognized Indian tribe in Oregon; 

       (E) Coordinated
care organization as defined in ORS 414.025; 

       (F) Community action
agency as described in ORS 458.505; 

       (G) Manufactured
dwelling park nonprofit cooperative as defined in ORS 62.803; or 

       (H) An electric
utility. 

       (g) “Energy
burden” means the percentage of gross household income spent on energy costs. 

       (h) “Heat pump”
means an air-source or ground-source heat pump with an energy efficiency rating
set by the State Department of Energy under subsection (5) of this section or a
higher efficiency rating. 

       (i) “Region”
means an economic development district in Oregon, designated by the Economic
Development Administration of the United States Department of Commerce, for
which a regional solutions center has been established under ORS 284.754. 

       (2) The Heat Pump
Deployment Program is established within the State Department of Energy. The
purpose of the program is to award grants to one eligible entity for each
region and federally recognized Indian tribe in Oregon to provide financial
assistance, including loans, grants, rebates or incentives, for the purchase
and installation of heat pumps and related upgrades to individuals who reside
within that region or who are members of that tribe. 

       (3)(a) To be
eligible to receive a grant from the Heat Pump Deployment Program, an eligible
entity must establish that it: 

       (A) Serves or
represents: 

       (i) A
disadvantaged community or communities within a region; or 

       (ii) Members of a
federally recognized Indian tribe in Oregon; and 

       (B) Has the
capacity to administer grant funds received under this section. 

       (b) An eligible
entity applying for a grant may partner with other eligible entities, but the
entity that is awarded the grant shall take a lead role in administering grant
funds and providing financial assistance. 

       (c) An eligible
entity that serves or represents a community that is located within more than
one region may apply for a grant only for the region within which the greatest
percentage of the individuals of that community reside. 

       (d) An eligible
entity that serves a specific geographical area may propose, in consultation
with any electric utility that serves the area, that the department use
alternative boundaries to define a region. The department may approve the use
of alternative boundaries to define a region provided that a minimum
percentage, as determined by the department, of the eligible entity’s specific
geographical area is within the alternative boundaries of the region. 

       (e) If an
electric utility is awarded a grant from the Heat Pump Deployment Program: 

       (A) The electric
utility may provide financial assistance from grant funds only to individuals
who reside within the electric utility’s service area and within the region for
which the electric utility is awarded a grant. 

       (B) The electric
utility shall partner with one or more other eligible entities to provide
financial assistance from grant funds to individuals who reside outside the
electric utility’s service area and within the region for which the electric
utility is awarded a grant. 

       (4) An eligible
entity that is awarded a grant from the Heat Pump Deployment Program shall: 

       (a) Use the grant
funds to cover up to: 

       (A) One hundred
percent of the purchase and installation costs of a heat pump. 

       (B) A percentage,
as determined by the department, of the costs for related upgrades that support
or enable the use of a heat pump, including: 

       (i) A new
electrical panel or other upgrades to the electrical system of a home or
building. 

       (ii)
Weatherization or other structural repairs to reduce home or building heat and
cooling loss. 

       (iii) Upgrades to
improve the airflow of a home or building. 

       (b) Prioritize
the provision of financial assistance to: 

       (A) Disadvantaged
communities. 

       (B) Individuals
who rely on bulk fuels or electric resistance heating. 

       (C) Individuals
who reside in a home or structure that does not have a functioning heating or
cooling system. 

       (c) Enter into a
performance agreement with the department as described in subsection (9) of
this section. 

       (5) The
department shall: 

       (a) Award grants
using available funds in the Heat Pump Deployment Fund established under ORS
469B.466. 

       (b) In awarding
grants, give preference to eligible entities with: 

       (A) Experience in
administering state grant programs or programs similar to the Heat Pump
Deployment Program. 

       (B) Experience
with community program development within a region or with members of a tribe. 

       (C) Connections
to communities within a region or with members of a tribe. 

       (c) Develop
criteria for allocating the amount of each grant based on the energy burden of
residences within the region or of members of the tribe and the climate zones
that make up the counties of that region or of tribal lands. 

       (d) Permit a
review of awarded grant funds by members of communities who may benefit from
the Heat Pump Deployment Program. 

       (e) In
consultation with electric utilities, the Bonneville Power Administration and
the nongovernmental entity that administers public purpose charge moneys
collected under ORS 757.612 (3)(d), set the minimum energy efficiency rating
that a heat pump must have to be eligible for grant funds. The minimum energy
efficiency rating for a heat pump set by the department must be equal to or
greater than federal energy efficiency rating standards for heat pumps. 

       (6) If the
department awards a grant to an eligible entity and additional funds become
available in the Heat Pump Deployment Fund established under ORS 469B.466, the
department may award additional grant moneys from the fund to the eligible
entity utilizing the existing performance agreement entered into between the
eligible entity and the department under subsection (4)(c) of this section. 

       (7) The
department may not use moneys collected through the energy resource supplier
assessment required under ORS 469.421 (8) to fund grants awarded under the Heat
Pump Deployment Program. 

       (8) The
department may: 

       (a) Establish a
maximum amount of grant funds payable toward the purchase and installation of a
heat pump and related upgrades. 

       (b) Permit the
use of loans, grants, rebates or incentives offered by an electric utility or
other programs toward any costs of the purchase and installation of a heat pump
and related upgrades not covered by the Heat Pump Deployment Program. 

       (c) Provide
information to individuals receiving financial assistance from the Heat Pump
Deployment Program about other loans, grants, rebates or incentives that may be
offered by an electric utility or other programs. 

       (d) Develop
criteria for how specific loans, grants, rebates or incentives offered by an
electric utility or other programs may be used toward the costs of the purchase
or installation of a heat pump and related upgrades. 

       (e) Establish
incentives to encourage the purchase and installation of heat pumps and related
upgrades that have higher efficiency ratings. 

       (f) Establish
incentives for the purchase and installation of a heating or cooling device
that has an efficiency rating similar to or higher than that of a heat pump and
that provides additional benefits such as improving indoor air quality or
lowering an individual’s energy burden. 

       (g) Develop
program procedures and practices that align with the reporting and other
requirements of loans, grants, rebates or incentives offered by an electric
utility or other programs. 

       (h) Require, by
rule, that eligible entities notify electric utilities of a heat pump
installation and whether grant funds may be used for necessary electric
distribution system upgrades associated with the installation of the heat pump. 

       (9) Before
receiving a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall enter into a
performance agreement with the department that: 

       (a) Indicates the
purposes for which the grant funds may be used; 

       (b) Prohibits the
eligible entity from using more than the percentage of awarded grant funds
allowed by the department by rule for administrative expenses and marketing
costs; 

       (c) Includes the
repayment provisions set forth in subsection (10) of this section; 

       (d) Permits the
department to conduct audits and investigations of the eligible entity
regarding the use of grant funds; 

       (e) Requires the eligible
entity to use best practices to maintain, as required by state or federal laws,
rules or regulations, the security and confidentiality of personal information
of individuals who apply for or receive financial assistance from the eligible
entity under the program; and 

       (f) Requires the
eligible entity to provide reports as required by subsection (11) of this
section. 

       (10) An eligible
entity must repay to the department, in whole or in part, grant funds received
under this section to the extent that: 

       (a) The eligible
entity does not use the grant funds in accordance with the provisions of the
performance agreement executed between the department and the eligible entity
under subsection (9) of this section; or 

       (b) The Director
of the State Department of Energy determines that the eligible entity must
repay all or part of the grant funds on grounds of misappropriation, fraud or
similar reasons after auditing or investigating the eligible entity’s
operations and conducting a contested case hearing under ORS 183.413 to
183.470. 

       (11) Each
eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall report to the
department each year concerning the status and use of grant funds for the
period of July 1 to June 30. The report must be submitted on a schedule
determined by the department. The report must include: 

       (a) A detailed
description of the eligible entity’s use of grant funds; 

       (b) A list of
each loan, grant or other financial assistance that the eligible entity has
provided and, where applicable, a full accounting of the repayment status of
the loans; 

       (c) The nature
and amounts of the administrative expenses and marketing costs the eligible
entity has incurred in providing loans, grants and other financial assistance
under the program; and 

       (d) Any other
information required by the department. 

       (12) The
department shall adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section. The
rules shall be developed in consultation with: 

       (a) The Bureau of
Labor and Industries on issues related to the workforce. 

       (b) The Building
Codes Division of the Department of Consumer and Business Services on issues
related to building codes and commissioning. 

       (c) The Housing
and Community Services Department to ensure the Heat Pump Deployment Program
complements any existing programs or services. 

       (d) The
Department of Environmental Quality on issues of air quality related to bulk
fuels and to ensure the Heat Pump Deployment Program complements any existing
programs or services. 

       (e) The Oregon
Health Authority on any health impacts and health impact data related to the
Heat Pump Deployment Program and to ensure the program complements any existing
programs or services. 

       (f) Electric
utilities and utility program administrators on any impacts the Heat Pump
Deployment Program may have on utility systems or services and to ensure the
program complements any existing programs, incentives or services. 

       (g) Nonprofit
organizations, housing providers, heat pump technicians and other stakeholders
as appropriate. [2022 c.86 §14; 2023 c.442 §73; 2025 c.76 §1] 

   

       469B.463 Heat
Pump Deployment Advisory Council. 
(1) The Heat Pump Deployment Advisory Council is established. 

       (2) The council
consists of representatives from eligible entities administering grant funds
under the Heat Pump Deployment Program established under ORS 469B.460. 

       (3) The council
shall study and identify: 

       (a) Best
practices for administering grant funds and providing financial assistance; 

       (b) Barriers to
administering grant funds and providing financial assistance; and 

       (c) Opportunities
for providing technical assistance. 

       (4) A majority of
the members of the council constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business. 

       (5) Official
action by the council requires the approval of a majority of the members of the
council. 

       (6) The council
shall elect one of its members to serve as chairperson. 

       (7) The council
shall meet at times and places specified by the call of the chairperson or of a
majority of the members of the council. The council may meet by telephone or
video conference. 

       (8) The council
may adopt rules necessary for the operation of the council. 

       (9) Members of
the council are entitled to compensation and expenses as provided in ORS
292.495 from moneys in the Heat Pump Deployment Fund established under ORS
469B.466. 

       (10) The State
Department of Energy shall provide staff support to the council. [2022 c.86 §15] 

   

       469B.466 Heat
Pump Deployment Fund; biennial reports. (1) The Heat Pump Deployment Fund is established in
the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest
earned by the Heat Pump Deployment Fund shall be credited to the fund. The fund
consists of: 

       (a) Moneys
appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly; 

       (b) Moneys
received from federal, state or local sources; 

       (c) Gifts, grants
or other moneys contributed to the fund; and 

       (d) Other amounts
deposited in the fund from any source. 

       (2) Moneys in the
fund are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Energy for the
purpose of the Heat Pump Deployment Program established under ORS 469B.460. 

       (3) The
department may use reasonable amounts from the fund, but no more than 15
percent of the fund, necessary to: 

       (a) Administer
and market the Heat Pump Deployment Program; and 

       (b) Provide for
the compensation and expenses of members of the Heat Pump Deployment Advisory
Council established under ORS 469B.463. 

       (4) The Director
of the State Department of Energy shall submit a biennial report to the
Legislative Assembly in the manner provided by ORS 293.640 regarding the
expenditures of moneys deposited in the Heat Pump Deployment Fund, including: 

       (a) A detailed
description of the use of the moneys; 

       (b) A detailed
description of the loans, grants or other financial assistance provided from
the moneys and, where applicable, an accounting of the repayment status of the
loans; 

       (c) The nature
and amounts of the administrative expenses and marketing costs paid from the
moneys; and 

       (d) Indicators of
program success. [2022 c.86 §16] 

   

 (Residential Heat Pump
Rebates and Grants) 

   

       Note: Sections 19 to 21 and 23, chapter
86, Oregon Laws 2022, provide: 

       Sec. 19.
Rebates for purchase and installation of residential heat pumps. (1) The State Department of Energy
shall provide rebates for the purchase and installation of air-source or
ground-source heat pumps to owners of a dwelling unit used as a residential
tenancy and to owners of a manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle who
rent a space in a manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle park. 

       (2)(a) Rebates
available under this section may only be claimed by a contractor that installs
a heat pump for the owner of a residential dwelling unit in Oregon. A
contractor that claims a rebate under this section must use the full amount of
the rebate to reduce the net cost to the customer of the purchase of the heat
pump for which the rebate is issued. 

       (b) The amount
that may be claimed as a rebate under this section may not exceed: 

       (A) For the owner
of a dwelling unit used as a residential tenancy, 60 percent of the purchase
price of the heat pump. 

       (B) For the owner
of a manufactured dwelling or recreation vehicle, a percentage of the purchase
price of the heat pump as established by the department. 

       (c) To be
eligible to claim a rebate on behalf of a customer under this section, a
contractor that installs a heat pump must, at the time of the installation: 

       (A) Hold any
license, bond, insurance or permit required to sell and install the heat pump; 

       (B) Demonstrate a
history of compliance with the rules and other requirements of the Construction
Contractors Board, the Bureau of Labor and Industries and the Workers’
Compensation Division and the Occupational Safety and Health Division of the
Department of Consumer and Business Services; and 

       (C) Meet any
other certification requirements set forth in rules adopted by the State
Department of Energy. 

       (3)(a) The
department may provide an incentive amount that is in addition to the amount of
a rebate made under this section as an incentive for contractors to install
air-source or ground-source heat pumps in rural or frontier communities. 

       (b) The
department shall establish the incentive amount, not to exceed $1,000, and may
establish different incentive amounts for rural communities and frontier
communities. 

       (c) An incentive
may be claimed by a contractor that installs a heat pump for the owner of a
residential dwelling unit that is located in a rural or frontier community
under rules adopted by the department and meets all other requirements to claim
a rebate under this section. A contractor may reserve or claim an incentive as
part of reserving or claiming a rebate. A contractor may claim one incentive
for each installation that the contractor claims a rebate. 

       (4) To claim a
rebate under this section, a contractor must: 

       (a) Before
installing a heat pump, apply to the department to reserve a rebate on behalf
of the customer for whom the heat pump will be installed. 

       (b) After
installing the heat pump, verify the purchase and installation of the heat pump
on a form provided by the department that must contain: 

       (A) The location
of the heat pump; 

       (B) A description
of the heat pump; 

       (C) Evidence that
the contractor is eligible to claim a rebate under subsection (2)(c) of this
section; 

       (D) A statement
signed by both the contractor and the customer for whom the heat pump is
installed that the customer has received the full value of the rebate as a
reduction in the net cost of the purchase and installation of the heat pump and
that the rebate was clearly reflected on an invoice provided to the customer; 

       (E) The projected
energy savings from the installation of the heat pump; and 

       (F) Any other
information that the department determines is necessary. 

       (5) Rebates,
including incentives, made under this section must be made from moneys in the
Residential Heat Pump Fund established under section 21, chapter 86, Oregon
Laws 2022. A rebate may be made only if there are moneys available in the fund
to make the rebate. 

       (6) Pursuant to
the procedures for a contested case under ORS chapter 183, the department may: 

       (a) Deny or
revoke a contractor’s eligibility to claim a rebate on behalf of a customer
under this section if the department finds that: 

       (A) The
contractor’s eligibility was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation by the
contractor; 

       (B) The
contractor’s performance for installation of heat pumps does not meet industry
standards; or 

       (C) The
contractor has misrepresented to customers either the program established under
this section or the nature or quality of the heat pumps for which rebates are
available. 

       (b) Revoke a
rebate or a portion of a rebate made under this section if the department finds
that: 

       (A) The rebate
was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation; or 

       (B) The rebate
was obtained by mistake or miscalculation. 

       (7)(a) The
department may adopt rules to administer the rebate program. 

       (b) In adopting
rules under this section, the department may coordinate or consult with: 

       (A) The Housing
and Community Services Department, the Building Codes Division of the
Department of Consumer and Business Services and any other relevant state
agencies; 

       (B) Nonprofit
organizations and utilities; and 

       (C) Other
incentive providers. 

       (c) Rules adopted
under this section may include: 

       (A) Preferences
for providing rebates that benefit low and moderate income residential tenants; 

       (B) Preferences
for providing rebates to support heat pumps with superior energy efficiency; 

       (C) Provisions
for determining eligibility and verification of heat pumps; and 

       (D) Policies and
procedures for the administration and enforcement of this section and section
21, chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022, which may include policies and procedures for
audits and inspections. [2022 c.86 §19; 2025 c.76 §2] 

       Sec. 20.
Grants for installation of residential heat pumps. (1) The State Department of Energy
shall provide grants for upgrades, including electrical and mechanical
upgrades, to facilitate the installation of heat pumps for owners of a dwelling
unit or a manufactured dwelling for whom a rebate has been reserved under
section 19 (4)(a), chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022. 

       (2) Grants made
under this section must be made from moneys in the Residential Heat Pump Fund
established under section 21, chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022. A grant may be made
only if there are moneys available in the fund to make the grant. 

       (3)(a) The
department shall adopt rules to administer the grant program. 

       (b) In adopting
rules under this section, the department may coordinate or consult with: 

       (A) The Housing
and Community Services Department, the Building Codes Division of the
Department of Consumer and Business Services, the United States Department of
Energy and any other relevant agencies; 

       (B) Nonprofit
organizations and utilities; and 

       (C) Other
incentive providers. 

       (c) Rules adopted
under this section must include: 

       (A) Preferences
for providing grants that benefit low and moderate income residential tenants; 

       (B) Provisions
for determining eligibility and verification of the upgrades; and 

       (C) Policies and
procedures for the administration and enforcement of this section. [2022 c.86 §20;
2025 c.76 §3] 

       Sec. 21. (1) The Residential Heat Pump Fund
is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General
Fund. Moneys in the Residential Heat Pump Fund consist of: 

       (a) Amounts
donated to the fund; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise transferred to the fund by the Legislative Assembly;
and 

       (c) Other amounts
deposited into the fund from any public or private source. 

       (2) Moneys in the
fund are continuously appropriated to the State Department of Energy to be used
to provide grants and rebates under sections 19 and 20, chapter 86, Oregon Laws
2022, and to pay the costs and expenses of the department related to the administration
and implementation of sections 19 and 20, chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022. 

       (3) In each
calendar year, of the moneys available for issuing grants and rebate from the
fund: 

       (a) 25 percent
must be reserved for affordable housing providers; 

       (b) 25 percent
must be reserved for owners of units occupied by low or moderate income
households; and 

       (c) No more than
five percent may be reserved or used to provide incentives under section 19
(3), chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022. [2022 c.86 §21; 2023 c.442 §75; 2025 c.76 §4] 

       Sec. 23. (1) Sections 19 to 21, chapter 86,
Oregon Laws 2022, are repealed on January 2, 2032. 

       (2) Section 6 of
this 2025 Act is repealed on January 2, 2032. 

       (3) On the date
of the repeal of sections 19 to 21, chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022, under
subsection (1) of this section, any moneys in the Residential Heat Pump Fund
that are unexpended, unobligated and not subject to any conditions or
reservations under section 19 (4)(a), chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022, are
transferred to the General Fund. [2022 c.86 §23; 2023 c.442 §76; 2025 c.76 §5] 

   

       Note: Section 6, chapter 76, Oregon Laws
2025, provides: 

       Sec. 6. Not later than November 30 of each
even-numbered year, the State Department of Energy shall provide a report to
the Legislative Assembly, in the manner provided in ORS 192.245, on the heat
pump grants and rebates under sections 19 and 20, chapter 86, Oregon Laws 2022.
[2025 c.76 §6] 

   

 (Community Cooling
Spaces Grants) 

   

       469B.480
Grants to assist landlords with providing community cooling spaces. (1) The State Department of Energy
shall provide a grant to the nongovernmental entity that administers public
purpose charge moneys under ORS 757.612 (3)(d) to enable the nongovernmental
entity to assist landlords in creating or operating, whenever there is an
extreme heat event for the forecast zone of the premises as described in ORS
90.355, one or more private community cooling spaces available to the landlord’s
tenants during the extreme heat event that are on or near the premises and that
maintain a temperature of not higher than 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 

       (2) Assistance
provided under this section may include: 

       (a) Grants to
landlords to create or operate community cooling spaces that will accommodate
at least five individuals. 

       (b) Information
to landlords regarding: 

       (A) Lists of
providers and installers of suitable cooling devices; 

       (B) Private and
government programs that may be used to create or operate community cooling
spaces; and 

       (C) Best
practices and model technical specifications for installing and operating
various temporary and permanent community cooling spaces. 

       (c) Promoting the
services relating to community cooling spaces under this section that are
provided by the nongovernmental entity. 

       (3) The
nongovernmental entity receiving a grant under this section shall maintain
separate accounting of the expenditures of the grant funds and shall report the
accounting to the Public Utility Commission and the independent auditor
described in ORS 757.746 (1)(d). The nongovernmental entity may not utilize
moneys received under ORS 757.054 (4) or 757.612 (3)(d) for grant purposes
under this section. [2022 c.86 §24; 2023 c.442 §77] 

   

 PENALTIES 

   

       469B.991 Civil
penalty when contractor certificate revoked. (1) The Director of the State Department of Energy
may impose a civil penalty against a contractor if a contractor certificate is
revoked under ORS 469B.118. The amount of the penalty shall be equal to the
total amount of tax relief estimated to have been provided under ORS 316.116 to
the contractor or to purchasers of the system for which a contractor’s
certificate has been revoked. 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy may not collect any of the amount of a civil penalty
imposed under subsection (1) of this section from a purchaser of the system for
which the final certificate has been revoked. 

       (3) Civil
penalties under this section shall be imposed as provided in ORS 183.745. 

       (4) A penalty
recovered under this section shall be paid into the State Treasury and credited
to the General Fund and is available for general governmental expenses. [Formerly
469.994; 2015 c.701 §34; 2019 c.483 §12] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
