 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 Chapter
286A — STATE BORROWING 

 PUBLIC
BORROWING 

   

 ORS sections in this
chapter were amended or repealed by the Legislative Assembly during its 2026
regular session. See the table of ORS sections amended or repealed during the
2026 regular session: 2026
A&R Tables 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

 State
Borrowing 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 286A.001  Definitions for ORS
chapter 286A 

   

 286A.003  State policy on debt
management 

   

 DUTIES OF STATE TREASURER 

   

 286A.005  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.010  Information required by
State Treasurer 

   

 286A.014  Fees and expenses of
State Treasurer; rules 

   

 286A.015  Payment of expenses of
State Treasurer 

   

 286A.016  Disposition of charges 

   

 AUTHORITY FOR BORROWING 

   

 286A.025  Issuance and sale of
bonds 

   

 286A.035  Bond budget authorization 

   

 286A.045  Borrowing for current
expenses 

   

 286A.050  Short Term Borrowing
Account; sources; uses 

   

 286A.055  Report by State Treasurer
on amount of bonds issued, amounts repaid, costs and interest earned 

   

 286A.056  Cancellation or
postponement of scheduled issuance of bonds 

   

 286A.095  Compliance with
constitutional or statutory debt limit 

   

 ADMINISTRATION OF BONDS 

   

 286A.100  Definitions for ORS
286A.100 and 286A.102 

   

 286A.102  Lien of a pledge; Uniform
Commercial Code 

   

 286A.110  Agreements for exchange
of interest rates 

   

 286A.118  Termination payment of
pass-through revenue bond borrower 

   

 286A.120  Credit enhancement
devices 

   

 286A.123  Agency purchase of own
bonds 

   

 286A.130  Bond counsel services;
financial advisory services; Public Contracting Code 

   

 286A.132  Debt-related advisory
services 

   

 286A.140  State taxation of bond
interest 

   

 286A.145  Federal taxation of bond
interest; interest rate subsidies; rules 

   

 286A.160  Exception to expenditure
limits for repaying obligations; administrative limits; reports 

   

 286A.185  Cancellation, purchase or
redemption of bonds; lost or destroyed evidence of bonds; rules 

   

 286A.190  Disclosure of bond
ownership 

   

 286A.195  Financial audit of bond
programs 

   

 286A.200  Administration of certain
bond programs by Oregon Department of Administrative Services 

   

 286A.250  State Debt Policy
Advisory Commission; membership; compensation; quorum; meetings; personnel;
consultation with other agencies 

   

 286A.255  Functions and duties of
commission 

   

 LOTTERY BONDS 

   

 286A.560  Definitions for ORS
286A.560 to 286A.585 and 327.700 to 327.711 

   

 286A.563  Purposes; nature of
lottery bonds 

   

 286A.566  Requirements for
legislation authorizing lottery bonds 

   

 286A.570  Lottery Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.573  Lottery Bond
Administrative Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.576  Allocation of lottery
moneys for lottery bonds; priorities 

   

 286A.578  Litigation challenging
legality of Oregon State Lottery 

   

 286A.580  Issuance of lottery
bonds; refunding bonds; bond covenants; reserves for bonds; appropriation to
maintain reserves; credit enhancements 

   

 286A.585  Lottery bonds for
community sports facilities; use of proceeds of bonds 

   

 PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS 

   

 286A.605  Definitions for ORS
286A.605 to 286A.625 

   

 286A.615  Private Activity Bond
Committee; purpose of private activity bonding; suballocation; rules 

   

 286A.620  Private activity bond
volume cap 

   

 286A.625  State Treasurer to
maintain records 

   

 286A.630  Reallocation of private
activity bond cap; rules 

   

 BACCALAUREATE BONDS 

   

 286A.700  Authority to issue
baccalaureate bonds 

   

 WATER POWER BONDS 

   

 286A.710  Definitions for ORS
286A.710 to 286A.720 

   

 286A.712  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.714  Article XI-D Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.716  Article XI-D Bond Administration
Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.718  Renewable Energy Fund;
purposes; rules 

   

 286A.720  Payment of bond-related
costs 

   

 PENSION LIABILITY BONDS 

   

 286A.730  Definitions for ORS
286A.730 to 286A.750 

   

 286A.735  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue pension liability bonds; nature and purpose of bonds;
refunding bonds 

   

 286A.740  Article XI-O Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.745  Article XI-O Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.750  Terms and conditions of
pension liability bonds 

   

 SEISMIC REHABILITATION BONDS 

   

 (Public Education Buildings) 

   

 286A.760  Definitions for ORS
286A.760 to 286A.772 

   

 286A.762  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.764  Article XI-M Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.766  Article XI-M Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.768  Education Seismic Fund;
purposes; rules 

   

 286A.772  Payment of bond-related
costs 

   

 (Emergency Services Buildings) 

   

 286A.780  Definitions for ORS
286A.780 to 286A.792 

   

 286A.782  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.784  Article XI-N Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.786  Article XI-N Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.788  Emergency Services
Seismic Fund; purposes; rules; fees 

   

 286A.792  Payment of bond-related
costs 

   

 SCHOOL CAPITAL MATCHING BONDS 

   

 286A.796  Definitions for ORS
286A.796 to 286A.806 

   

 286A.798  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.800  School capital matching
bond program; rules 

   

 286A.801  Matching fund grants to
school districts; requirements; awards; rules 

   

 286A.802  Article XI-P Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.804  Article XI-P Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.806  School Capital Matching
Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.808  Oregon School Capital
Improvement Matching Account; purposes 

   

 286A.810  LEED certification of
school projects financed with Article XI-P bonds 

   

 ARTICLE XI-Q BONDS 

   

 286A.816  Definitions for ORS
286A.816 to 286A.826 

   

 286A.818  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue bonds 

   

 286A.820  Article XI-Q Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.822  Article XI-Q Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.824  Article XI-Q bond
program; rules 

   

 286A.826  Budgeting for Article
XI-Q project costs 

   

 HIGHER EDUCATION BONDS 

   

 286A.830  Definitions for ORS
286A.830 to 286A.863 

   

 286A.833  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue Article XI-F(1) bonds 

   

 286A.836  Loan agreements for
Article XI-F(1) bonds 

   

 286A.839  Article XI-F(1) Bond
Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.842  Article XI-F(1) Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.845  Budgeting for Article
XI-F(1) bonds 

   

 286A.848  Authority of State
Treasurer to issue Article XI-G bonds 

   

 286A.851  Grant contracts for
Article XI-G bonds 

   

 286A.854  Article XI-G Bond Fund;
purposes 

   

 286A.857  Article XI-G Bond
Administration Fund; purposes 

   

 286A.860  Budgeting for Article
XI-G bonds 

   

 286A.863  Rules; billing of public
universities and community colleges; agreements with Oregon Health and Science
University 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

       286A.001
Definitions for ORS chapter 286A. 
As used in this chapter: 

       (1) “Agreement
for exchange of interest rates” means a contract, or an option or forward
commitment to enter into a contract, for the exchange of interest rates that
provides for: 

       (a) Payments
based on levels of or changes in interest rates; or 

       (b) Provisions to
hedge payment, rate, spread or similar exposure including, but not limited to,
an interest rate floor or cap or an option, put or call. 

       (2) “Bond”: 

       (a) Means a
contractual undertaking or instrument of the State of Oregon to repay borrowed
moneys. 

       (b) Does not mean
a financing agreement, as defined in ORS 283.085, if the principal amount of
the agreement is $100,000 or less, or a credit enhancement device. 

       (3) “Counterparty”
means an entity with whom the State of Oregon enters into an agreement for
exchange of interest rates. 

       (4) “Credit
enhancement device”: 

       (a) Means a
letter of credit, line of credit, standby bond purchase agreement, bond
insurance policy, reserve surety bond or other device or facility used to
enhance the creditworthiness, liquidity or marketability of bonds or agreements
for the exchange of interest rates; and 

       (b) Does not mean
a bond. 

       (5) “Credit
enhancement device fee” means a payment required to be made to the provider of
a credit enhancement device securing a bond or securing an agreement for the
exchange of interest rates. 

       (6) “General
obligation bond” means a bond that constitutes indebtedness of the state under
section 7, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution, and that is exempt from the
$50,000 limitation on indebtedness set forth in that section. 

       (7) “Operative
document” means a bond declaration, trust agreement, indenture, security
agreement or other document in which the State of Oregon pledges property as
security for an obligation, as defined in ORS 286A.100. 

       (8) “Refunding
bond” means a bond of the State of Oregon that is issued to refund another
bond, regardless of whether the refunding is on a current, advance, forward
delivery, synthetic or other basis. 

       (9) “Related
agency” means the state agency that requests the State Treasurer to issue bonds
pursuant to ORS 286A.025 or for which the State Treasurer has issued bonds. 

       (10) “Related
bond” means a bond for which the State of Oregon enters into an agreement for
exchange of interest rates. 

       (11) “Revenue”
means all fees, tolls, excise taxes, assessments, property taxes and other
taxes, rates, charges, rentals and other income or receipts derived by a state
agency or to which a state agency is entitled. 

       (12) “Revenue
bond” means a bond of the State of Oregon that is not a general obligation
bond. 

       (13) “State
agency”: 

       (a) Includes a
statewide elected officer, board, commission, department, division, authority
or other entity, without regard to the designation given to the entity, that is
within state government, as defined in ORS 174.111; and 

       (b) Does not
include: 

       (A) A statewide
elected judge; 

       (B) The State
Treasurer; 

       (C) A local
government, as defined in ORS 174.116; 

       (D) The Oregon
Health and Science University; 

       (E) A special
government body, as defined in ORS 174.117, except to the extent a special
government body must be considered a state agency in order to achieve the
purposes of Article XI-K of the Oregon Constitution; or 

       (F) A
semi-independent state agency listed in ORS 182.454, 377.835 or 674.305, or any
other state agency denominated by statute as a semi-independent state agency. 

       (14) “Termination
payment” means the amount payable under an agreement for exchange of interest
rates by one party to another party as a result of the termination, in whole or
part, of the agreement prior to the expiration of the stated term. [2007 c.783 §2;
2009 c.537 §7] 

   

       286A.003 State
policy on debt management. 
(1) The State of Oregon recognizes that adherence to a debt management policy
that provides guidelines for debt issuance is necessary to limit the long-term
impact of debt on the budget of the state, to preserve the credit rating of the
state and to maintain available debt capacity to meet the continuing capital
investment needs of this state. Accordingly, it is the policy of the State of
Oregon that, in determining the total amount of bonds to be authorized each
biennium, the Legislative Assembly shall: 

       (a) Limit the
issuance of bonds to projects or programs that require a minimum amount of
state funding, as determined by the Legislative Assembly each biennium, and
direct that projects or programs with funding needs that are under the minimum
amount be funded with current resources; and 

       (b) Prohibit the
issuance of bonds for ongoing operating expenditures of the state. 

       (2) This section
does not require the Legislative Assembly to prohibit: 

       (a) Borrowing for
ongoing operating expenditures of the state as authorized under ORS 286A.045; 

       (b) Borrowing to
finance pension obligations under ORS 238.692 to 238.698; 

       (c) Borrowing to
finance activities related to environmental remediation; 

       (d) The use of
bond proceeds to pay for administration or management of projects or programs
funded by the bond proceeds; or 

       (e) The use of
interest or investment earnings on bond proceeds for ongoing operating
expenditures. [2017 c.746 §14] 

   

 DUTIES OF STATE
TREASURER 

   

       286A.005
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) The State Treasurer shall issue and sign bonds of
the State of Oregon. The State Treasurer may sign a bond by manual or facsimile
signature. 

       (2) Unless
otherwise authorized by law other than this section, the State Treasurer may
issue bonds only if a related agency has requested that the bonds be issued. 

       (3) In
determining whether to issue bonds, the State Treasurer shall consider: 

       (a) The bond
market for the type of bonds proposed for issuance; 

       (b) The terms and
conditions of the proposed issue; and 

       (c) Other
relevant factors that the State Treasurer considers necessary to protect the
financial integrity of the State of Oregon. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer may sell bonds for more than one related agency or for more than one
purpose in a single sale or in combination with the sale of other bonds. 

       (5) The State
Treasurer is an applicable elected representative for the purpose of approving
the issuance of bonds when approval is required under section 147(f) of the
Internal Revenue Code. 

       (6) The State
Treasurer may adopt rules providing for the procedural or administrative
requirements for the issuance of obligations, as defined in ORS 286A.100. [2007
c.783 §3] 

   

       286A.010
Information required by State Treasurer. A related agency shall, at the direction of the State
Treasurer, provide the State Treasurer with: 

       (1) The
information that the State Treasurer considers necessary to determine whether
to issue the requested bonds, including assumptions underlying cash flow
projections associated with the repayment of the bonds; and 

       (2) After the
requested bonds are issued, the information that the State Treasurer considers
necessary to: 

       (a) Administer
the bonds; and 

       (b) Comply with
federal and state securities law and bond covenants. [2007 c.783 §4] 

   

       286A.014 Fees
and expenses of State Treasurer; rules. (1) The State Treasurer may charge a related agency
for reasonable fees and expenses in connection with the services, duties and
activities of the State Treasurer related to the borrowing activities of the
State of Oregon, including but not limited to the issuance and administration
of obligations, as defined in ORS 286A.100. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may charge a public body, as defined in ORS 287A.001, reasonable fees
and expenses in connection with: 

       (a) The services,
duties and activities of the State Treasurer related to obligations, as defined
in ORS 287A.310, of the public body; or 

       (b) Providing
assistance to the Oregon Municipal Debt Advisory Commission or to the public
body. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer shall deposit all moneys received under this section in the
Miscellaneous Receipts Account established under ORS 286A.016. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer shall adopt rules to implement the provisions of this section
including, but not limited to, rules identifying the services, duties and
activities for which charges are to apply. 

       (5) A related
agency or public body shall pay to the State Treasurer reasonable fees and
expenses charged under this section or under rules adopted pursuant to this
section. [2007 c.783 §5] 

   

       286A.015
Payment of expenses of State Treasurer. Moneys received under ORS 286A.014 are continuously
appropriated to the State Treasurer for the payment of expenses of the State
Treasurer in connection with bonds of the State of Oregon or a public body as
defined in ORS 287A.001. [2007 c.783 §6] 

   

       Note: 286A.015 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter
286A or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       286A.016
Disposition of charges. 
All moneys received under ORS 286A.014 and 287A.634 shall be deposited in the
Miscellaneous Receipts Account established in the General Fund for the State
Treasurer. The State Treasurer may use moneys in the account for payment of
expenses of the State Treasurer in connection with bonds of the State of Oregon
or a public body as defined in ORS 287A.001. [Formerly 286.025] 

   

 AUTHORITY FOR BORROWING 

   

       286A.025
Issuance and sale of bonds. 
(1) The State Treasurer may, at the request of a related agency: 

       (a) Issue bonds
when a law of the State of Oregon authorizes bonds to be issued; and 

       (b) Issue
refunding bonds without additional authorization. 

       (2) In
consultation with the related agency, the State Treasurer may: 

       (a) Sell bonds at
a competitive sale or a negotiated sale or in any other manner determined by
the State Treasurer; 

       (b) Issue bonds
the interest of which is exempt from federal income taxation or is not exempt
from federal income taxation; 

       (c) Establish the
principal amounts, redemption provisions, optional or mandatory tender
provisions, interest rates or methods for determining variable or adjustable
interest rates, denominations and other terms and conditions of the bonds; 

       (d) Establish
maturity dates for bonds to provide for short-term, interim or long-term
borrowing; 

       (e) Determine the
form and content of a bond offering or disclosure document; 

       (f) Structure,
market and issue bonds in the manner that the State Treasurer determines is in
the best interest of the people of the State of Oregon; and 

       (g) Invest moneys
held in connection with or derived from obligations, as defined in ORS
286A.100, without regard to the fund or account to which the moneys are
credited under other provisions of law, alone or with other invested moneys. In
addition, the State Treasurer may: 

       (A) Establish
funds and accounts separate and distinct from the General Fund in order to
invest the moneys as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857 and to arrange for
redemption or purchase of bonds; and 

       (B) Segregate or
pool moneys in order to promote financial and administrative efficiency and
prudence in the management of moneys derived from obligations, as defined in
ORS 286A.100, moneys available for bond repayment and other moneys, and in the
administration of bond programs. 

       (3) Subject to
the approval of the State Treasurer, moneys described in subsection (2)(g) of
this section may be held by a trustee under a trust agreement, indenture, bond
declaration or similar instrument and may be invested by the trustee at the
direction of the related agency for which the moneys are held by the trustee.
If consistent with the trust agreement, indenture, bond declaration or similar
instrument, a related agency may authorize a trustee to invest on behalf of the
agency in the investment funds or with other moneys invested by the State
Treasurer under ORS 293.701 to 293.857 and may authorize a transfer of the
moneys from the State Treasurer to the trustee. 

       (4) In addition
to authority conferred by law other than this section, the State Treasurer or,
with the approval of the State Treasurer, a related agency may: 

       (a) Execute and
deliver indentures, trust agreements, auction agent agreements, broker-dealer
agreements, tender agent agreements, bond declarations or similar instruments
and other contracts related to the sale, issuance or security of the bonds; 

       (b) Deposit funds
with trustees for the benefit of bond owners and the providers of credit
enhancement devices; and 

       (c) Enter into
covenants for the benefit of bond owners or the providers of credit enhancement
devices. 

       (5) The covenants
authorized by subsection (4)(c) of this section: 

       (a) May include,
but are not limited to, covenants regarding the issuance of additional bonds,
the priority of payment of bonds and, if authorized by law other than this
section, the imposition and collection of rates, fees or other charges; and 

       (b) Are intended
to: 

       (A) Improve the
security of bond owners or providers of credit enhancement devices; or 

       (B) Maintain the
tax-exempt status of interest payable on bonds. 

       (6) In addition
to authority conferred by law other than this section, in consultation with the
related agency, the State Treasurer may establish a debt service reserve for
the purpose of paying when due the amounts owing on the bonds for which the
debt service reserve is established. The debt service reserve may be funded out
of the proceeds derived from the issuance and sale of the bonds for which the
debt service reserve is being established or from other lawfully available
funds. 

       (7) In
consultation with the related agency, the State Treasurer shall select the
underwriters for the sale of the bonds requested by the related agency. An
agreement with the underwriters may be executed by the State Treasurer alone or
with the related agency. An agreement with underwriters is not subject to the
Public Contracting Code. [2007 c.783 §7] 

   

       286A.035 Bond
budget authorization. 
(1) Each related agency shall report the plans of the related agency for the
issuance of bonds during the next biennium. The related agency shall submit the
related agency’s report to the Governor by a date determined by the Governor
and shall include in the report a description of bonds that the related agency
intends to retire or defease during the next biennium. 

       (2) On or before
a date determined by the Governor, the State Treasurer shall advise the
Governor on the prudent maximum amount of bonds to be issued for each bond
program. The State Treasurer shall consider available economic and financial
data in preparing advice to be given to the Governor. 

       (3) As part of
the Governor’s budget described in ORS 291.216, the Governor shall: 

       (a) Consider the
prudent maximum amounts advised by the State Treasurer pursuant to subsection
(2) of this section to determine the Governor’s total recommended amount; and 

       (b) Recommend to
the Legislative Assembly the total amount of bonds the State Treasurer may
issue for each bond program for a biennium. 

       (4) The
Legislative Assembly shall determine the amount of bonds the State Treasurer
may issue for each state agency for a biennium. Except as provided in
subsection (5) of this section, if the Legislative Assembly fails to make the
determination described in this subsection by the first day of the biennium,
the unused portion of the authorization the Legislative Assembly made for the
preceding biennium is deemed to carry forward for the current biennium at the
amount authorized for the preceding biennium until the earlier of: 

       (a) The date on
which legislation authorizing the amount of bonds for the current biennium is
enacted; or 

       (b) The date on
which the Legislative Assembly adjourns sine die. 

       (5) The unused
portion of the amount of pass-through revenue bonds authorized for issuance in
the preceding biennium is deemed to carry forward for the current biennium
until the date on which legislation authorizing the amount of pass-through
revenue bonds for the current biennium is enacted. 

       (6) The amount of
bonds that may be issued under bond programs may be modified by the Governor.
However, the Governor may not modify the amount of bonds that may be issued
under bond programs in a way that would cause the maximum amount established by
the Legislative Assembly for a category of bond programs to be exceeded if the
Legislative Assembly: 

       (a) Has
categorized the bonds that may be issued under bond programs as general
obligation, direct revenue and pass-through revenue bonds; and 

       (b) Assigned a
maximum amount to each category. 

       (7) This section
applies to bonds: 

       (a) Unless the
bonds are expressly exempted from the requirements of this section. 

       (b) Except
refunding bonds. [2007 c.783 §9; 2013 c.766 §1; 2015 c.767 §8; 2015 c.828 §28;
2016 c.117 §47; 2023 c.174 §1; 2023 c.237 §1] 

   

       286A.045
Borrowing for current expenses. 
(1) The State Treasurer may issue bonds to finance all or a portion of the
current expenses of this state. The amount of bonds issued under this section
at any time may not exceed the State Treasurer’s estimate of the cash flow
deficit in revenues available to pay the expenses that are financed with the
bonds, plus amounts for reasonable reserves and costs. 

       (2) To estimate
the amount of cash flow deficit, the State Treasurer shall take into account
the most recent cash flow forecast made by the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services and any other information the State Treasurer
determines is reliable and relevant. 

       (3) When the
State Treasurer issues bonds under this section: 

       (a) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services shall account for and administer the
proceeds of the bonds and the repayment of the bonds. The State Treasurer, in
consultation with the Oregon Department of Administrative Services, shall
determine the appropriate investment strategy for the proceeds of the bonds.
The State Treasurer shall notify the Director of the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services, the Legislative Fiscal Officer and the Legislative
Revenue Officer before issuing bonds under this section. 

       (b) The State
Treasurer may pledge: 

       (A) All or a
portion of the revenues of the State of Oregon to pay bonds issued under this
section. 

       (B) The full
faith and credit of the State of Oregon to pay bonds issued under this section
if the bonds are payable from the Short Term Borrowing Account established
under ORS 286A.050 and the bonds mature not later than the end of the biennium
in which the bonds are issued. 

       (c) A state
agency may use the proceeds of bonds issued under this section: 

       (A) For a purpose
for which the revenues that are pledged to pay the bonds may be used; 

       (B) To pay
principal, interest and premium, if any, on the bonds or a rebate or penalty
due to the United States in connection with the bonds; 

       (C) To pay the
cost of credit enhancement devices with respect to the bonds; 

       (D) To pay the
costs of the State Treasurer and the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services of issuing, administering or maintaining the bonds including, but not
limited to, the cost of a consultant or adviser retained by the State Treasurer
or the Oregon Department of Administrative Services; or 

       (E) To make
payments with respect to agreements for the exchange of interest rates. 

       (4) This section
constitutes complete authority for the State Treasurer to issue bonds described
in this section. 

       (5) ORS 286A.035
does not apply to bonds authorized by this section. 

       (6) The
requirements and limitations that apply to certificates of indebtedness issued
under ORS 293.165 do not apply to bonds issued by the State Treasurer under
this section. 

       (7) This section
and ORS 286A.050 constitute complete authorization by the Legislative Assembly
for the use and expenditure of the proceeds of the bonds and the revenues
pledged to pay those bonds for the purposes described in subsection (3)(c) of
this section. Additional appropriation or authorization is not necessary. The
authorization contained in this section and ORS 286A.050 to spend moneys for
the purposes described in subsection (3)(c) of this section does not constitute
an appropriation for purposes of ORS 291.357. 

       (8) The proceeds
of bonds issued by the State Treasurer under this section do not constitute
revenues received by the General Fund for purposes of section 14, Article IX of
the Oregon Constitution, and ORS 291.349. 

       (9) The State
Treasurer may perform the duties and exercise the powers of a related agency
under this section. [2007 c.783 §11] 

   

       286A.050 Short
Term Borrowing Account; sources; uses. 
(1) The Short Term Borrowing Account is created in the General Fund. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer shall credit the proceeds of bonds issued by the State Treasurer
under ORS 286A.045 to the Short Term Borrowing Account. The State Treasurer
shall, in addition, transfer to the Short Term Borrowing Account any amounts
that are pledged to pay bonds issued by the State Treasurer under ORS 286A.045
and that are required to pay those bonds. 

       (3) Amounts in
the Short Term Borrowing Account are continuously appropriated to the
respective state agencies for which the revenues that are pledged to pay the
bonds were appropriated, for the purposes described in ORS 286A.045
(3)(c). Amounts appropriated under this subsection may not be taken into
account in preparing budget estimates, plans or reports required to be prepared
under ORS 291.201 to 291.222. [Formerly 293.175] 

   

       286A.055
Report by State Treasurer on amount of bonds issued, amounts repaid, costs and
interest earned. 
Within 90 days following the end of a biennium, the State Treasurer shall
report in writing to the Legislative Fiscal Officer and the Legislative Revenue
Officer on the amount of bonds issued by the State Treasurer under ORS
286A.045, the amount spent in repayment of those bonds, the issuance costs and
interest costs of those bonds and the interest revenues earned by the proceeds
of those bonds. [Formerly 293.177] 

   

       286A.056
Cancellation or postponement of scheduled issuance of bonds. (1) If the State Treasurer or
Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services determines that
the treasurer or director will cancel or postpone an issuance of general
obligation bonds or lottery bonds that was authorized by law and previously
scheduled, the treasurer or director shall provide written notice to the
President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the
Legislative Fiscal Officer. 

       (2) The treasurer
or director shall provide the notice not later than 30 days after the date the
issuance of the bonds was scheduled. [2012 c.107 §3] 

   

       286A.095
Compliance with constitutional or statutory debt limit. (1) When calculating compliance
with a constitutional or statutory debt limit: 

       (a) If a bond is
issued to a provider of a credit enhancement device for a bond that is subject
to a debt limit, the bond issued to the provider must be taken into account
only to the extent that the amount of the bond issued to the provider exceeds
the amount of the bond that is secured by the credit enhancement device. 

       (b) The amount of
interest to be paid on bonds, whether paid currently or deferred, is not taken
into account. 

       (c) For a zero
coupon bond or other original issue discount bond on which periodic interest
payments are not made, only the accreted value of the bond on the date the bond
is issued is taken into account. 

       (d) The state may
deduct from the amount of outstanding bonds: 

       (A) The amount of
moneys and investments held by the state or a trustee of the state to pay bonds
that have not been defeased; and 

       (B) The principal
amount of bonds that have been defeased. 

       (2) For purposes
of this section, a bond is defeased if: 

       (a) The state has
set aside in an irrevocable escrow government obligations, as defined in ORS
287A.375, the receipts from which have been calculated by a certified public
accountant or other experienced professional to be sufficient, without
reinvestment, to pay the principal, interest and premium, if any, due on the
bond at maturity or on prior redemption; or 

       (b) The state has
complied with the provisions in the documents authorizing the bond that provide
for the payment or defeasance of the bond. [2007 c.783 §15] 

   

 ADMINISTRATION OF BONDS 

   

       286A.100
Definitions for ORS 286A.100 and 286A.102. As used in this section and ORS 286A.102: 

       (1) “Obligation”
means: 

       (a) A bond; 

       (b) An agreement
for exchange of interest rates with the State of Oregon; or 

       (c) A credit
enhancement device given as additional security for a bond. 

       (2) “Pledge”
means: 

       (a) To create a
security interest in or a lien on property to secure payment or performance of
an obligation, by mortgaging, assigning or encumbering property or by creating
a security interest in property by any other manner. 

       (b) A security
interest in or lien on property created under paragraph (a) of this subsection. 

       (3) “Pledgee”
means: 

       (a) A trustee for
the holder of an obligation; or 

       (b) The holder of
an obligation if a trustee was not appointed in the operative document or if
the operative document authorizes the holder of an obligation to foreclose the
lien of a pledge and enforce the remedies consequent to the pledge in lieu of
the trustee. 

       (4) “Property”
means: 

       (a) Real or
personal property, tangible or intangible, whether owned when the pledge is
made or acquired subsequently to the time the pledge is made; and 

       (b) Revenues,
contract rights, receivables or securities. [2007 c.783 §17; 2009 c.537 §8] 

   

       286A.102 Lien
of a pledge; Uniform Commercial Code. 
(1) The Uniform Commercial Code does not apply to the creation, perfection,
priority or enforcement of a lien of a pledge made by a state agency or the
State Treasurer. 

       (2) When
authorized by law to secure obligations with property of the State of Oregon, a
state agency, or the State Treasurer acting under the State Treasurer’s own
authority or on behalf of a state agency with the approval of the state agency,
may pledge all or a portion of the property as security for payment of the
obligations and for performance of a covenant or agreement entered into in
relation to the issuance of the obligations. 

       (3) The lien
created by a pledge described in subsection (2) of this section is valid and
binding from the time the pledge is made. Pledged property is subject
immediately to the lien of the pledge without physical delivery, filing or any
other act. 

       (4) Except as
otherwise expressly provided in an operative document, the lien of the pledge
is superior to and has priority over all other claims and liens of any kind. 

       (5) When property
subject to a pledge is acquired by the State of Oregon after the pledge is
made: 

       (a) The property
is subject to the lien upon acquisition by the State of Oregon without physical
delivery, filing or any other act; and 

       (b) The lien
relates back to the time the pledge was originally made. 

       (6)(a) The State
Treasurer, or the related agency, may reserve the right to pledge property as
security for a subsequently issued obligation. 

       (b) If the State
Treasurer or related agency reserves the right described in paragraph (a) of
this subsection, subject to the terms of the operative document that created
the previous pledge, the lien of the subsequent pledge may be on a parity or
pari passu basis with the lien of the previous pledge, on a prior and superior
basis with the lien of the previous pledge or on a subordinate basis with the
lien of the previous pledge, as specified in the operative document creating
the subsequent pledge. The lien of the subsequent pledge: 

       (A) Has the
priority specified in the operative document creating the subsequent pledge;
and 

       (B) Is superior
to and has priority over other claims and liens of any kind except the lien of
a pledge with which the lien of the subsequent pledge is on a parity or
subordinate basis, as specified in the operative document. 

       (7) Except as
provided in subsection (8) of this section, a pledgee may commence an action in
a court of competent jurisdiction to foreclose the lien of the pledge and
exercise rights and remedies available to the pledgee under the operative
document. 

       (8) When pledged
property is in a fund for debt service reserves or payments, a pledgee may
foreclose the lien of the pledge by applying the property to the payment of
obligations subject to the terms, conditions and limitations in the operative
document. 

       (9) An initiative
or referendum measure approved by the electors of the State of Oregon that
purports to change statutory provisions affecting rates, fees, tolls, rentals
or other charges may not be given any force or effect if to do so would impair
existing covenants made with holders of existing obligations regarding the
imposition, levy or collection of the rates, fees, tolls, rentals or other
charges pledged to secure outstanding obligations. 

       (10) If
authorized by law other than this section to set rates, fees or other charges
that are pledged to pay obligations, a state agency may enter into rate
covenants. Rate covenants authorized by this subsection may obligate a state
agency to periodically set the rates and charges: 

       (a) That generate
pledged revenues at specific levels including, but not limited to, a specific
monetary charge for each unit of commodity or service provided or a schedule of
rates and charges that includes fixed and variable components; 

       (b) At levels
sufficient to maintain underlying credit ratings assigned to obligations by one
or more nationally recognized credit rating services without regard to any
improvement in credit ratings due to the provision of additional security for
the obligations by a credit enhancement device; 

       (c) That generate
pledged revenues each year in amounts at least equal to operations and
maintenance expenses of the state agency that produces the pledged revenues,
plus debt service on obligations, plus an additional amount that is reasonably
required to obtain favorable terms for the obligations; or 

       (d) In accordance
with a formula established in the operative document governing obligations. The
formula may provide for rates to be determined by reference to factors
including, but not limited to: 

       (A) Historical
operating expenses; 

       (B) Projected
future operating expenses; 

       (C) The funding
of depreciation; 

       (D) The costs of
capital improvements; 

       (E) The costs of
complying with contractual requirements and covenants; 

       (F) The costs of
complying with regulatory requirements; 

       (G) Reports of
independent consultants regarding the required level of pledged revenues; 

       (H) Debt service
on the obligations; and 

       (I) The funds
needed to establish or maintain reserves required by law or contract and the
funds needed to maintain an unencumbered carryforward fund balance or working
capital to meet unanticipated expenses or fluctuations in revenues that may
arise. 

       (11) A rate
covenant authorized by this section is a contract that binds the State of
Oregon and is enforceable against the State of Oregon in accordance with the
terms of the rate covenant. 

       (12) The State
Treasurer, or a related agency with the approval of the State Treasurer, may
pledge the full faith and credit of the State of Oregon as security for the
payment of general obligation bonds. A pledge of the full faith and credit
authorized by this subsection does not, by itself, create a lien on the
revenues or property of the state. [2007 c.783 §18] 

   

       286A.110
Agreements for exchange of interest rates. (1) A related agency with the approval of the State
Treasurer, or the State Treasurer on behalf of a related agency, may enter into
agreements for exchange of interest rates with counterparties. Agreements for
exchange of interest rates may be made to manage payment, interest rate, spread
or similar exposure undertaken in connection with a related bond upon a
determination by the related agency, or by the State Treasurer on behalf of the
related agency, that the agreement benefits the State of Oregon. 

       (2) Subject to
covenants applicable to a related bond and the limitations of this section,
payments required under an agreement for the exchange of interest rates by the
related agency, or the State Treasurer on behalf of the related agency, may: 

       (a) Be treated as
interest payments on the related bond; 

       (b) Be made from
revenues or other moneys that are pledged or otherwise committed to pay the
related bond; and 

       (c) Rank in an
order of priority of payment relative to the payment of the related bond as the
related agency, or the State Treasurer on behalf of the related agency,
determines. 

       (3) In connection
with entering into an agreement under this section, a related agency, or the
State Treasurer on behalf of the related agency, may enter into a credit
enhancement device for an agreement for exchange of interest rates. 

       (4) An agreement
for exchange of interest rates is subject only to the limitations of this
section and is not subject to a limitation applicable to the related bond. 

       (5) With the
approval of the State Treasurer, a related agency may use moneys derived from
the issuance and sale of bonds to pay termination payments due under an
agreement entered into under this section. 

       (6) A related
agency, with the approval of the State Treasurer, may: 

       (a) Create
reserves to pay amounts due under an agreement for exchange of interest rates;
and 

       (b) Fund the
reserves with moneys derived from the issuance and sale of bonds or from
revenues or other moneys described in subsection (2)(b) of this section. [2007
c.783 §10] 

   

       286A.118
Termination payment of pass-through revenue bond borrower. With the approval of the State
Treasurer, a related agency may lend moneys derived from an issuance and sale
of bonds to a pass-through revenue bond borrower of proceeds from outstanding,
previously issued pass-through revenue bonds for the purpose of paying a
termination payment due under an agreement for exchange of interest rates
entered into by the pass-through revenue bond borrower in relation to the
outstanding, previously issued pass-through revenue bonds. [2009 c.538 §4; 2023
c.174 §3] 

   

       286A.120
Credit enhancement devices. 
(1) In addition to authority conferred by law other than this section, a
related agency, with the approval of the State Treasurer, or the State
Treasurer may: 

       (a) Enter into a
credit enhancement device agreement in order to provide liquidity or security
for bonds or for an agreement for exchange of interest rates. The credit
enhancement device may be secured only by moneys that the State of Oregon may
legally commit to secure payment of the bonds that are secured by the credit
enhancement device or related to the agreement for exchange of interest rates. 

       (b) Obtain a
credit enhancement device providing additional security for: 

       (A) The payment
of all or a portion of amounts owing under bonds; 

       (B) The purpose
of funding, in lieu of cash, all or a portion of a debt service reserve
established with respect to bonds; or 

       (C) The payment
of amounts owing under an agreement for exchange of interest rates. 

       (2) The related
agency, with the approval of the State Treasurer, or the State Treasurer may
pledge as security for the obligations of the State of Oregon arising under or
with respect to a credit enhancement device all or a portion of revenues
pledged to the payment of the bonds related to the credit enhancement device. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer may issue a bond to the provider of a credit enhancement device to
secure the obligations of the State of Oregon to pay amounts due to the
provider. [2007 c.783 §8] 

   

       286A.123
Agency purchase of own bonds. 
(1) A related agency, with the approval of the State Treasurer, or the State
Treasurer, on behalf of a related agency: 

       (a) May bid for,
purchase, hold, cause to be held in trust and remarket bonds issued by the
State Treasurer on behalf of the related agency. 

       (b) May not,
except as provided in ORS 293.793 (2), bid for, purchase, hold, cause to be
held in trust and remarket bonds issued by the State Treasurer on behalf of
another state agency. 

       (2) Except as
otherwise provided in the operative documents, the purchase or acquisition of
bonds under subsection (1) of this section does not cancel or extinguish the
bonds unless the related agency elects in writing to cancel or extinguish the
bonds. 

       (3) In addition
to other uses authorized by law, a related agency, or the State Treasurer on
behalf of a related agency, may purchase bonds under subsection (1) of this
section using moneys that are: 

       (a) Deposited in
a fund or account in the State Treasury for the use of the related agency or
held by a trustee of the related agency; and 

       (b) Appropriated
or otherwise legally available to the related agency for repayment of the bonds
or for payment of the costs of the related agency to administer the program
under which the bonds were sold, including bond proceeds and reserves
established for the bonds. 

       (4) Within two
business days after using the authority to purchase bonds under this section,
the State Treasurer shall notify the legislative revenue committees, when the
Legislative Assembly is in regular or special session, or the Legislative
Revenue Officer and the Legislative Fiscal Officer, during the interim, of: 

       (a) The amount
and status of the bonds purchased by or on behalf of a related agency under
this section; and 

       (b) The current
or anticipated interest rates applicable to the bonds. 

       (5) Not later
than February 1 of each year, the State Treasurer shall submit a report to the
legislative revenue committees, when the Legislative Assembly is in regular or
special session, or to the Legislative Revenue Officer and the Legislative
Fiscal Officer, during the interim, describing: 

       (a) The amount
and status of bonds purchased during the previous year by or on behalf of
related agencies under this section; and 

       (b) The savings
realized or costs incurred by related agencies from the purchase of bonds under
this section. [2009 c.537 §2] 

   

       286A.130 Bond
counsel services; financial advisory services; Public Contracting Code. (1) The State Treasurer or a
related agency may enter into one or more agreements for bond counsel services
for a period of not less than one year during any biennium in which there are
bonds outstanding that were issued for the state agency or during any biennium
in which the state agency expects the State Treasurer to issue bonds for an
agency program. A state agency may not enter into an agreement for bond counsel
services unless the State Treasurer and the Attorney General have reviewed and
approved the terms and conditions of the agreement. Before approving an
agreement, the State Treasurer shall consider the reputation, experience and
credentials of the bond counsel, including the individuals expected to actually
fulfill the contract work. 

       (2) Except as
provided in subsection (3) of this section, the appointment of bond counsel may
not be construed as authorizing bond counsel to advise or represent the state
on matters that are committed by statute to the Attorney General. 

       (3) The services
provided under a bond counsel agreement may include: 

       (a) Advising a
state agency or the State Treasurer concerning the legality of specific
proposed taxable or tax-exempt bonds and the compliance of obligations with
applicable law, including but not limited to federal securities and tax laws; 

       (b) Issuing
opinions to a state agency, the State Treasurer or other parties concerning the
enforceability of, authority for and tax status of bonds, agreements for
exchange of interest rates, credit enhancement devices or similar associated
documents and on the lawful use of the proceeds of the bonds, as may be
required by the demands of the marketplace for the bonds; 

       (c) Advising a
state agency or the State Treasurer on legal procedures and practices in the
bond marketplace, including advice on the structuring and sale of bonds; 

       (d) Preparing or
assisting in the preparation of documents related to a specific issue of bonds,
including but not limited to an authorizing resolution or declaration, a trust
indenture, a prospectus, a preliminary official statement, an official statement,
a bond sale notice, a bond form, a bid form, a bond purchase agreement, an
agreement for exchange of interest rates, a credit enhancement device or a
similar document necessary or desirable to sell bonds; 

       (e) Advising a
state agency or the State Treasurer concerning the maintenance of the tax
status of specific bonds, compliance with any requirements for representations
or disclosures relating to the bonds, compliance with any documents executed as
part of the issuance of the bonds and federal laws related to bond programs
that may be available to a state agency; 

       (f) Advising a
state agency or the State Treasurer concerning accounting, investment or
administrative procedures recommended or required for compliance with federal
or state securities or tax or rebate requirements relating to bonds that were
issued for the agency or that the agency expects to issue; and 

       (g) Advising and
assisting a state agency or the State Treasurer in responding to an inquiry
received from or an audit by a federal or state regulatory body concerning: 

       (A) The tax
status of interest paid on the bonds; 

       (B) The marketing
of the bonds; 

       (C) Requirements
of federal law related to the use of bond proceeds or the program for which the
bonds were issued; or 

       (D) Other matters
within the jurisdiction of the federal or state regulatory body relating to
bonds that were issued by the state agency. 

       (4) In addition
to entering into an agreement described in subsection (3) of this section, the
State Treasurer or a related agency may appoint bond counsel by letter,
certificate or otherwise, to provide the services described in subsection (3)
of this section for an individual pass-through revenue bond sale. 

       (5) The State
Treasurer or, with the approval of the State Treasurer, a related agency may
enter into an agreement with and retain the services of one or more providers
of financial advisory services. When considering whether to enter into or
approve an agreement with a provider of financial advisory services, before
approving the agreement, the State Treasurer shall consider the reputation,
experience and credentials of the adviser, including the individuals expected
to actually fulfill the contract work. 

       (6) Except for
the expenses of bond counsel services provided under subsection (4) of this
section for pass-through revenue bond sales, the related agency shall pay the
expenses of any agreements entered into under this section and may use bond
proceeds to pay those expenses. 

       (7) The Public
Contracting Code does not apply to agreements entered into under this section. [2007
c.783 §20; 2023 c.174 §4] 

   

       286A.132
Debt-related advisory services. 
(1) In addition to authority conferred by law other than this section, the
State Treasurer or, with the approval of the State Treasurer, a related agency
may enter into an agreement with and retain the services of one or more: 

       (a) Providers of
investment advisory services or advisory services related to agreements for
exchange of interest rates; 

       (b) Providers of
banking services; 

       (c) Escrow
agents; 

       (d) Providers of
fiscal or paying agent services; 

       (e) Collateral
custodians; 

       (f) Providers of
investment contracts; 

       (g) Remarketing
agents; or 

       (h) Other
bond-related or credit enhancement device-related agents or service
professionals, or other persons with relevant expertise, to assist the State
Treasurer or the related agency in the performance of the duties of the State
Treasurer or the related agency under this chapter. 

       (2) The related
agency shall pay the expenses incurred in providing the services described in
this section unless the related agency requires a recipient of bond sale
proceeds to pay the expenses. 

       (3) The Public
Contracting Code does not apply to an agreement entered into under this
section. 

       (4) When the
Oregon Constitution or a law of this state authorizes bond proceeds to be spent
for a particular purpose, the authorization also includes authorization to
spend bond proceeds for bond counsel, attorney, consultant, fiscal or paying
agent, trustee or other professional fees and other expenses incurred by the
related agency or the State Treasurer to authorize, issue, administer and repay
the bonds, including fees payable to the State Treasurer. [2007 c.783 §21] 

   

       286A.140 State
taxation of bond interest. 
Except as provided in ORS 289.250, interest on all bonds of the State of Oregon
is exempt from personal income tax under ORS chapter 316. [2007 c.783 §22; 2015
c.548 §4] 

   

       286A.145
Federal taxation of bond interest; interest rate subsidies; rules. (1) The State Treasurer or a
related agency may enter into covenants for the benefit of owners of bonds that
are intended to allow the bonds to bear interest that is excluded from gross
income under the federal Internal Revenue Code or that is otherwise exempt from
taxation by the United States. The State Treasurer or a related agency may
adopt rules or procedures that are intended to facilitate compliance with those
covenants, and may take any action that is required to comply with those
covenants. Covenants authorized by this subsection include, but are not limited
to, covenants to: 

       (a) Pay any
rebates of earnings or penalties to the United States; 

       (b) Invest
proceeds alone or in combination with other moneys in investments that have
different maturities, yields or credit qualities than the state would acquire
under the investment standards specified in ORS 293.721 and 293.726 and other
similar laws, but only if those investments facilitate compliance with
covenants described in this subsection; or 

       (c) Restrict the
expenditure of bond proceeds or restrict the operation of, or otherwise limit
the use of, facilities that are financed with bonds. 

       (2) When the
State of Oregon receives interest rate subsidies from the United States in
connection with bonds, the State Treasurer or the related agency, to the extent
permitted by federal law, may: 

       (a) Apply the
subsidies to pay bonds of the related agency and credit the subsidies to an
account that is used to pay bonds of the related agency; 

       (b) Pledge the
subsidies to secure bonds of the related agency; or 

       (c) Use the
subsidies to pay costs that would otherwise be paid with proceeds of bonds of
the related agency and credit the subsidies to accounts that are used to pay
the costs. [2007 c.783 §23; 2010 c.3 §6] 

   

       286A.160
Exception to expenditure limits for repaying obligations; administrative
limits; reports. 
(1) Notwithstanding any law limiting expenditures of a state agency, for the
purpose of repaying obligations of the state to obtain savings in total or
periodic debt service payments, a law limiting expenditures does not apply to
payments approved by the State Treasurer for administrative expenses, debt
service or financing costs that are necessary or appropriate for the retirement
or refunding of bonds unless the law limiting expenditures creates a specific
exception to this section. 

       (2) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services may establish administrative limitations
on the payment and recording of expenditures made pursuant to subsection (1) of
this section. 

       (3) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services shall report incurred expenses and debt
service savings resulting from actions taken under subsection (1) of this
section that affect administrative expenses, debt service or financing costs
paid with moneys out of the General Fund or lottery funds, within 90 days of
taking action, to the Joint Committee on Ways and Means if the Legislative
Assembly is in session or to the Emergency Board or to the Joint Interim
Committee on Ways and Means during the interim between legislative sessions. [Formerly
286.063; 2012 c.107 §20] 

   

       286A.185
Cancellation, purchase or redemption of bonds; lost or destroyed evidence of
bonds; rules. (1)
The State Treasurer may adopt rules, or establish by contract or policy,
procedures and requirements for the cancellation, purchase or redemption of
bonds, the remittance of funds to pay bonds, or the replacement of lost or
destroyed evidence of bonds or interest coupons. 

       (2) If the State
Treasurer decides: 

       (a) To replace
lost or destroyed evidence of bonds or coupons, or to make payment in lieu of
replacement, the State Treasurer may require indemnity, deposit or other form
of assurance or proof of ownership to ensure against conflicting, duplicative
or fraudulent claims. The State Treasurer may charge a fee to the person
seeking replacement or payment in lieu of replacement under this section, in an
amount sufficient to reimburse the State Treasurer for costs incurred in
providing replacement or payment under this subsection. 

       (b) Not to
replace or make payment with respect to a lost or destroyed bond or coupon, the
person seeking replacement or payment under this section may appeal the
determination as a review of an order other than a contested case under ORS
183.484. [2007 c.783 §24] 

   

       286A.190
Disclosure of bond ownership. 
The records of bond ownership are not public records for purposes of ORS
192.311 to 192.478 or other law governing the disclosure of information. [2007
c.783 §25] 

   

       286A.195
Financial audit of bond programs. 
(1) The Secretary of State shall conduct a financial audit of the bond programs
of each state agency at least annually. The Secretary of State shall publish
the audit as soon as possible following the end of the audit period. 

       (2) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services may, on an annual basis, exempt a bond
program from the requirements of subsection (1) of this section. [2007 c.783 §26] 

   

       286A.200
Administration of certain bond programs by Oregon Department of Administrative
Services. (1) The
Oregon Department of Administrative Services may, with respect to bonds
described in subsection (2) of this section, administer bond programs and the
transfer or disbursement of bond proceeds through intergovernmental agreements
or grant or loan agreements containing terms and conditions the department
determines are necessary or advisable to: 

       (a) Protect any
tax benefit related to the bonds; 

       (b) Protect the
State of Oregon from liability due to the failure of grantees or borrowers to
comply with legal requirements related to the bonds, including requirements
under the Internal Revenue Code; 

       (c) Ensure that
bond proceeds are used for authorized or intended purposes; 

       (d) Ensure that
adequate funds will be available for repayment of the bonds; or 

       (e) Ensure
compliance with state and federal law. 

       (2) The
department may exercise powers authorized under subsection (1) of this section
with respect to: 

       (a) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 (lottery bonds); 

       (b) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.710 to 286A.720 and Article XI-D of the Oregon Constitution
(state power development); 

       (c) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.760 to 286A.772 and Article XI-M of the Oregon Constitution
(seismic rehabilitation of public education buildings); 

       (d) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.780 to 286A.792 and Article XI-N of the Oregon Constitution
(seismic rehabilitation of emergency services buildings); 

       (e) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.796 to 286A.806 and Article XI-P of the Oregon Constitution
(school district capital costs); 

       (f) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.816 to 286A.826 and Article XI-Q of the Oregon Constitution
(property owned or operated by state); and 

       (g) Bonds issued
under ORS 286A.830 to 286A.863 and Article XI-F(1) or Article XI-G of the
Oregon Constitution (higher education). [2017 c.9 §5] 

   

       286A.250 State
Debt Policy Advisory Commission; membership; compensation; quorum; meetings;
personnel; consultation with other agencies. (1) There is established a State Debt Policy Advisory
Commission, consisting of five members. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer and the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
shall serve as ex officio members of the commission. One member of the
commission must be a member of the Senate appointed by the President of the
Senate. One member of the commission must be a member of the House of
Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House. One member of the
commission must be a public member, knowledgeable on matters of public finance,
appointed by the Governor from among those persons recommended by the State
Treasurer. 

       (3) The term of
an appointed member is two years, but an appointed member serves at the
pleasure of the appointing authority. Before the expiration of the term of an
appointed member, the appointing authority shall appoint a successor. If there
is a vacancy for any reason in the office of an appointed member, the
appointing authority shall make an appointment to become immediately effective
for the unexpired term. 

       (4) A member of
the commission is entitled to compensation and expenses as provided in ORS
292.495. 

       (5) The State
Treasurer shall serve as chairperson of the commission, with the duties and
powers necessary for the performance of that office that the commission
determines appropriate. 

       (6) A majority of
the members of the commission constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business. 

       (7) The
commission shall meet at least once every year at a place and time determined
by the commission. The commission also shall meet at other times and places
specified by the call of the chairperson or of a majority of the members of the
commission. 

       (8) The office of
the State Treasurer shall provide the commission with office space and clerical
and other administrative support. 

       (9) When
preparing documents or reports or other materials for or by the State Debt
Policy Advisory Commission, and prior to the release of the documents, reports
or other materials to the public, the State Treasurer shall consult and share
the documents, reports or other materials with the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services and the Legislative Fiscal Office. [Formerly 286.550;
2015 c.40 §1; 2016 c.118 §5] 

   

       Note: 286A.250 and 286A.255 were enacted
into law by the Legislative Assembly but were not added to or made a part of
ORS chapter 286A or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to
Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       286A.255
Functions and duties of commission. 
The State Debt Policy Advisory Commission shall advise the Governor and the
Legislative Assembly regarding policies and actions that enhance and preserve
the state’s credit rating and maintain the future availability of low-cost
capital financing. In carrying out this function, the commission shall at least
annually prepare a report showing the consolidated bond profile of this state.
The report must include: 

       (1) The total
amount of outstanding bonds for the most recently concluded fiscal year. 

       (2) A forecast
for at least the next six years of the state’s borrowing capacity targets by
repayment source that is based on the policies and actions established under
this section and that is consistent with the most recently published revenue
forecast by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. 

       (3) A calculation
of the state’s net remaining borrowing capacity by repayment source. [Formerly
286.555; 2015 c.40 §2] 

   

       Note: See note under 286A.250. 

   

 LOTTERY BONDS 

   

       286A.560
Definitions for ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 and 327.700 to 327.711. As used in ORS 286A.560 to
286A.585 and 327.700 to 327.711, unless the context requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Appropriated
funds” for a particular fiscal year means any moneys, other than unobligated
net lottery proceeds, that are specifically appropriated or otherwise
specifically made available by the Legislative Assembly or the Emergency Board
for a fiscal year to replenish reserves established as additional security for
lottery bonds pursuant to the authority granted in ORS 286A.580 (6). 

       (2) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining lottery bonds and the
lottery bond program, including but not limited to paying or redeeming lottery
bonds, paying amounts due in connection with credit enhancements or any
instruments authorized by ORS 286A.580 (6) and paying the administrative costs
and expenses of the State Treasurer and the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services, including costs of consultants or advisors retained by the State
Treasurer or the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for the lottery
bonds or the lottery bond program; 

       (b) The costs of
funding any lottery bond reserves; 

       (c) Capitalized
interest for lottery bonds; 

       (d) Rebates or
penalties due to the United States in connection with lottery bonds; and 

       (e) Any other
costs or expenses that the State Treasurer or the Director of the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services determines are necessary or desirable in
connection with issuing lottery bonds or maintaining the lottery bond program. 

       (3) “Lottery
bonds” means: 

       (a) The state
park lottery bonds authorized by ORS 390.060 to 390.067, the infrastructure
lottery bonds authorized by ORS 285B.530 to 285B.548 and the education lottery
bonds authorized by ORS 327.700 to 327.711; 

       (b) Any other
bonds payable from the revenues of the Oregon State Lottery unless the
legislation authorizing those bonds expressly provides that those bonds may not
be issued under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585; and 

       (c) Any refunding
lottery bonds. 

       (4) “Lottery Bond
Administrative Fund” means the fund created by ORS 286A.573. 

       (5) “Lottery Bond
Fund” means the fund created by ORS 286A.570. 

       (6) “Lottery bond
program” means a financing program authorized by: 

       (a) ORS 285B.530
to 285B.548, 327.700 to 327.711 or 390.060 to 390.067; or 

       (b) Any other Act
of the Legislative Assembly authorizing the issuance of bonds that are payable
from the revenues of the Oregon State Lottery, unless the legislation
authorizing those bonds expressly provides that those bonds may not be issued
under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585. 

       (7) “Refunding
lottery bonds” means any bonds issued for the purpose of refunding any lottery
bonds. 

       (8) “Unobligated
net lottery proceeds” means all revenues derived from the operation of the
Oregon State Lottery except for: 

       (a) The revenues
used for the payment of prizes and expenses of the Oregon State Lottery as
provided in section 4 (4)(d), Article XV of the Oregon Constitution, and ORS
461.500 and 461.510; and 

       (b) The revenues
required to be allocated to pay the Westside lottery bonds and any bonds issued
to refund the Westside lottery bonds, to fund reserves for any of those bonds
and to pay related costs of the Department of Transportation. 

       (9) “Westside
lottery bonds” means the bonds issued by this state under the authority granted
in ORS 391.140 that, notwithstanding ORS 267.334, 285B.419, 285B.422, 285B.482,
285B.530 to 285B.548, 286A.560 to 286A.585, 327.700 to 327.711 and 390.060 to
390.067, shall have a claim on lottery funds that is superior to the claim of
the lottery bonds authorized by ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585. [Formerly 286.560;
2009 c.821 §17] 

   

       286A.563
Purposes; nature of lottery bonds. 
(1) The Legislative Assembly declares that the purpose of ORS 286A.560 to
286A.585 is to combine previously enacted legislation authorizing lottery bonds
into a single Act that provides uniform administrative procedures for all
lottery bonds issued by the State of Oregon. 

       (2) The lottery
bonds issued under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 shall be special obligations of the
State of Oregon that are payable solely from unobligated net lottery proceeds,
amounts available in the Lottery Bond Fund and in any reserve accounts established
for lottery bonds under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 and any appropriated funds.
The faith and credit of the State of Oregon or any of its taxing power shall
not be pledged or committed to the payment of lottery bonds or any other
commitment of the State of Oregon authorized by ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585. [Formerly
286.563] 

   

       286A.566
Requirements for legislation authorizing lottery bonds. (1) Any legislation authorizing
issuance of lottery bonds under ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 shall: 

       (a) State the
purposes for which the proceeds of lottery bonds may be spent; 

       (b) Contain
findings that those uses are lawful uses of lottery revenues; 

       (c) Indicate the
amount of lottery bonds that may be issued under the legislation; 

       (d) Specify the
fund into which the net proceeds of those lottery bonds shall be deposited; and 

       (e) Provide for
the payment of the bond-related costs for the lottery bonds. 

       (2) Unless
specifically prohibited by the legislation authorizing lottery bonds: 

       (a) Any agency or
other entity holding net proceeds of lottery bonds shall, upon the written
request of the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,
transfer to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for deposit in the
Lottery Bond Administrative Fund the amounts that the director states in the
request are reasonably required to pay for bond-related costs that are
allocable to those net proceeds. 

       (b) The agencies
or other entities receiving proceeds of lottery bonds shall, if so directed by
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services, take any action specified by
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services that is necessary to maintain the
excludability of lottery bond interest from gross income under the Internal
Revenue Code. [Formerly 286.566] 

   

       286A.570
Lottery Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Lottery Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and
distinct from the General Fund. The amounts of unobligated net lottery proceeds
described in ORS 286A.576 (2)(a) and (b) and any appropriated funds and
investment earnings of the Lottery Bond Fund shall be credited to the Lottery
Bond Fund. The State Treasurer may establish reserves for lottery bonds as
provided in ORS 286A.580 (6). The reserves shall be credited to such account in
the Lottery Bond Fund as the State Treasurer may designate. 

       (2) The amounts
credited to the Lottery Bond Fund are continuously appropriated only for the
purpose of paying, when due, the principal of and the interest and premium, if
any, on outstanding lottery bonds, funding lottery bond reserves and paying
amounts due in connection with any instrument authorized by ORS 286A.580 (6). 

       (3) The moneys in
the Lottery Bond Fund shall be used and applied solely to pay, when due, the
principal of and the interest and premium, if any, on any lottery bonds, to
fund reserves and to pay amounts due under instruments authorized by ORS
286A.580 (6). [Formerly 286.570] 

   

       286A.573
Lottery Bond Administrative Fund; purposes. The Lottery Bond Administrative Fund is established
in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. The amounts
of unobligated net lottery proceeds specified in ORS 286A.576 (2)(c), the
proceeds of any lottery bonds issued to pay bond-related costs and the
investment earnings on amounts in the Lottery Bond Administrative Fund shall be
credited to the Lottery Bond Administrative Fund. All moneys credited from time
to time to the Lottery Bond Administrative Fund, including any investment earnings
thereon, are appropriated continuously to the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services only for payment of bond-related costs. Amounts in the
Lottery Bond Administrative Fund shall be disbursed upon the written request of
the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. [Formerly
286.573] 

   

       286A.576
Allocation of lottery moneys for lottery bonds; priorities. (1) Subject only to the
availability of unobligated net lottery proceeds, in each fiscal period
established by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services in which
lottery bonds are outstanding, there shall be allocated, in accordance with a
schedule determined by the department, from the Administrative Services
Economic Development Fund created by ORS 461.540 or, if unobligated net lottery
proceeds in that fund are insufficient, from any other fund or account of this
state that contains unobligated net lottery proceeds, an amount of unobligated
net lottery proceeds that is sufficient: 

       (a) To pay all
lottery bond principal, interest and premium, if any, that is scheduled to be
paid in that fiscal period; 

       (b) To restore
the balance in any reserve account for lottery bonds to the level the state has
covenanted to maintain in the account under ORS 286A.580 (6), including any
amounts due under an instrument authorized by ORS 286A.580 (6); and 

       (c) To pay
bond-related costs that will be due in that fiscal period. 

       (2) The amounts
of unobligated net lottery proceeds allocated pursuant to subsection (1) of
this section shall be transferred to the following funds and accounts in the
following order of priority: 

       (a) First, there
shall be transferred to the Lottery Bond Fund an amount of unobligated net
lottery proceeds that, when added to any amounts credited to the Lottery Bond
Fund that are available for such purpose, will be sufficient to pay all amounts
of lottery bond principal, interest and premium scheduled to be paid in that
fiscal period; 

       (b) Second, if
the balances in any reserve accounts for lottery bonds are less than the
amounts the state has covenanted to maintain in those reserve accounts, there
shall be transferred to the Lottery Bond Fund for credit to those reserve
accounts amounts of unobligated net lottery proceeds sufficient to restore the
balances in those reserve accounts to the levels the state has covenanted to
maintain; and 

       (c) Third, any
remaining amount shall be transferred to the Lottery Bond Administrative Fund. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in accordance with Article XV,
section 4 (4), of the Oregon Constitution, the annual allocations of
unobligated net lottery proceeds made by this section and the transfers of
unobligated net lottery proceeds required to be made by this section shall be
satisfied and credited from the first unobligated net lottery proceeds received
by this state before any other allocation, appropriation or disbursement of the
earnings of the unobligated net lottery proceeds is made in the fiscal period. 

       (4) The
percentages of revenues of the Oregon State Lottery that are dedicated for
particular purposes under Article XV, section 4 (4), of the Oregon
Constitution, shall be calculated without deducting from the total lottery
revenues the amount of unobligated net lottery proceeds that are required to
pay lottery bonds. 

       (5) If there are
not sufficient revenues of the Oregon State Lottery to pay lottery bonds and to
satisfy the percentage dedications set forth in the Oregon Constitution, the
State Treasurer shall, before issuing any series of lottery bonds, cause a
projection of unobligated net lottery proceeds and lottery bond debt service to
be prepared. The State Treasurer shall not issue a series of lottery bonds if
the projection indicates that there will not be sufficient proceeds of the
Oregon State Lottery to satisfy the percentage dedications of Article XV,
section 4 (4), of the Oregon Constitution, and to leave unobligated net lottery
proceeds in amounts at least equal to the debt service on all lottery bonds,
including the series proposed to be issued. However, if at some time in the
future a conflict arises because of a decline in revenues of the Oregon State
Lottery, unobligated net lottery proceeds shall be allocated and applied first
to pay lottery bonds, and the remaining net revenues of the Oregon State Lottery
shall be divided pro rata among the constitutionally dedicated uses. 

       (6)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when the Legislative Assembly
enacts laws granting pledges, making dedications or making appropriations of
net proceeds of the Oregon State Lottery for purposes other than payment of
lottery bonds, all such pledges, dedications and appropriations, whenever
granted or made, shall be subordinate to the pledges and dedications of
unobligated net lottery proceeds for lottery bonds. [Formerly 286.576; 2015
c.20 §1] 

   

       286A.578
Litigation challenging legality of Oregon State Lottery. (1) Lottery bonds may be issued
pursuant to ORS 286A.580 without regard to any litigation challenging the
legality of the Oregon State Lottery. Lottery bonds issued pursuant to ORS
286A.580 are valid and binding obligations of the State of Oregon that are
payable only from amounts pledged under ORS 286A.580 (7) or from appropriated
funds, even if the Oregon State Lottery is partially or wholly invalidated. In
the event the lottery is invalidated, the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services shall request the Legislative Assembly or, if the Legislative Assembly
is not in session, the Emergency Board to provide appropriated funds pursuant
to ORS 286A.580 (6). 

       (2) By enacting
this section, the Legislative Assembly acknowledges its current intention to
provide appropriated funds if amounts are certified by the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services under ORS 286A.580, but the
Legislative Assembly or the Emergency Board does not have a legal obligation to
provide appropriated funds. [Formerly 286.578] 

   

       286A.580
Issuance of lottery bonds; refunding bonds; bond covenants; reserves for bonds;
appropriation to maintain reserves; credit enhancements. (1) The State Treasurer, at the
request of the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,
may issue lottery bonds from time to time to finance any lottery bond program
and to pay costs of issuing lottery bonds and administering the lottery bond
program, and the State Treasury may be paid for all bond-related costs the
State Treasury incurs. 

       (2) Lottery bond
proceeds and unobligated net lottery proceeds may be used to pay bond-related
costs. 

       (3) In addition
to lottery bonds for any lottery bond program, the State Treasurer may, at the
request of the affected agency or the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services, issue one or more series of refunding lottery bonds. The refunding
lottery bonds shall be structured so that the amount required to pay those
bonds in each year does not exceed the amount of unobligated net lottery
proceeds that could have been committed to pay the lottery bonds that are
refunded. Refunding lottery bonds shall be issued in such amount as the State
Treasurer determines is necessary or appropriate in order to: 

       (a) Pay or
defease the principal of and the interest and redemption premium, if any, on
the bonds to be refunded; and 

       (b) Pay any
bond-related costs related to the refunding lottery bonds. 

       (4) All lottery
bonds issued under this section shall be payable from: 

       (a) The amount
pledged for payment under subsection (7) of this section; and 

       (b) Any
appropriated funds. 

       (5) The lottery
bonds shall not be general obligations of this state and shall not be secured
by or payable from any funds or assets of this state other than the amounts
pledged for payment or security and any appropriated funds. The Legislative
Assembly shall not be under any legal compulsion or obligation to provide any
appropriated funds and shall not be liable to any party for any failure to
provide appropriated funds. All lottery bonds issued under ORS 286A.560 to
286A.585 shall contain a statement that this state is not obligated to pay
lottery bond principal, interest or premium thereon from any source other than
the amounts pledged for payment and any appropriated funds, and that the full
faith and credit or the taxing power of the State of Oregon are not pledged to
the payment of lottery bond principal, interest or premium. 

       (6) The State
Treasurer may establish reserves for lottery bonds. The reserves may be in the
form of cash, investments, surety bonds, municipal bond insurance, lines of
credit, letters of credit or other similar instruments. The State Treasurer, on
behalf of the State of Oregon, may covenant to maintain the reserves at
particular levels, but solely from the amounts that may be pledged to pay
lottery bonds under subsection (7) of this section. If the reserves are drawn
down below the level that this state has covenanted to maintain, the Director
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall promptly certify to
the Legislative Assembly or, if the Legislative Assembly is not then in
session, to the Emergency Board, the amount needed to restore the reserves to
their required level. The Legislative Assembly or the Emergency Board may
provide appropriated funds in the amount certified by the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services. Any appropriated funds so
provided shall be used immediately to restore the balance in the reserves
established for the lottery bonds. The State of Oregon may enter into covenants
with the owners of the lottery bonds that specify the timing and content of the
director’s certification. By enacting this subsection, the Legislative Assembly
acknowledges its current intention to provide appropriated funds in the amount
certified by the director under this subsection. However, the Legislative
Assembly or the Emergency Board shall not have any legal obligation to provide
any appropriated funds. 

       (7)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the State Treasurer may pledge all
or any portion of the unobligated net lottery proceeds, amounts in the Lottery
Bond Fund and any unexpended lottery bond proceeds to pay lottery bonds and to
pay amounts due in connection with any credit enhancement or any instrument
authorized by subsection (6) of this section. The lien of such pledge shall be
valid and binding immediately upon delivery by the state of the lottery bonds,
credit enhancement agreement or instrument secured by the pledge. The amounts
so pledged shall be immediately subject to the lien of the pledge upon receipt
of the amounts by this state regardless of when or whether they are allocated
or transferred to the Lottery Bond Fund or the Lottery Bond Administrative Fund
and regardless of whether there was physical delivery, filing or other act.
Except to the extent provided in the pledge, the lien of the pledge shall be
superior to all other claims, liens and appropriations of any kind. The State
Treasurer may provide that lottery bonds may be issued in different series and
that each series may be secured by a lien on, and pledge of, the unobligated
net lottery proceeds that is superior to, subordinate to, or on a parity with,
the lien of the pledge securing other series of lottery bonds. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the powers granted in any other part of ORS
286A.560 to 286A.585. 

       (8) Any covenants
made under this section for the benefit of owners of lottery bonds shall
constitute contracts between the State of Oregon and the owners of lottery
bonds. The State Treasurer, or the Director of the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services with the consent of the State Treasurer, may, on behalf
of the State of Oregon and in addition to the covenants authorized by
subsection (6) of this section, make the following covenants for the benefit of
the owners of lottery bonds and any providers of credit enhancement or
instruments authorized by subsection (6) of this section: 

       (a) Except as
permitted by a pledge made under subsection (7) of this section, this state
shall not create any lien or encumbrance on the unobligated net lottery
proceeds that is superior to the liens of the pledges authorized by subsection
(7) of this section. 

       (b) Subject only
to the availability of unobligated net lottery proceeds, the State of Oregon
shall budget and appropriate in each fiscal year an amount of unobligated net
lottery proceeds that, when added to other funds lawfully budgeted and
appropriated and available for the purpose, will be sufficient: 

       (A) To pay in
full the principal, interest and premium due and to become due on all
outstanding lottery bonds in the fiscal year; 

       (B) To maintain
the required balance in any reserves established for lottery bonds; and 

       (C) To pay
amounts due to the providers of credit enhancement for lottery bonds or
instruments authorized by subsection (6) of this section. 

       (c) This state
shall apply the unobligated net lottery proceeds and any other amounts so
budgeted and appropriated for those purposes. 

       (d) This state
shall continue to operate the Oregon State Lottery until all lottery bonds are
paid or defeased. 

       (9) In connection
with the issuance of any lottery bonds, the State Treasurer may establish such
accounts and subaccounts within the Lottery Bond Fund that the State Treasurer
determines are necessary or appropriate. In addition, the State Treasurer or the
Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services may, on behalf of
this state, enter into any agreements that the State Treasurer determines are
necessary or appropriate to issue lottery bonds and carry out the provisions of
ORS 286A.560 to 286A.585 and all legislation authorizing lottery bond programs. 

       (10) If the State
Treasurer determines that the acquisition is cost-effective, the State
Treasurer may acquire a municipal bond insurance policy, letter of credit, line
of credit, surety bond or other credit enhancement device for lottery bonds,
and may enter into any related agreements. 

       (11) The State
Treasurer may provide that all or any portion of the Lottery Bond Fund, the
Lottery Bond Administrative Fund or any accounts in either fund shall be held
by a trustee, may enter into agreements with the trustee regarding the use and
application of the amounts held in those funds and accounts and may transfer
amounts credited to those funds and accounts to the trustee. [Formerly 286.580] 

   

       286A.585
Lottery bonds for community sports facilities; use of proceeds of bonds. (1) Pursuant to ORS 286A.560 to
286A.585 and subject to future legislative approval, lottery bonds may be
issued to make grants or loans to Oregon cities to fund projects for the
reconstruction, renovation or development of community sports facilities in
order to make the facilities suitable for use by a major league baseball team
if a city is selected as an expansion site by major league baseball or if a
major league baseball team agrees to relocate to a city. 

       (2) The use of
lottery bond proceeds is authorized based on the following findings: 

       (a) The financial
assistance to cities will assist in the construction, improvement and expansion
of infrastructure and community facilities that comprise the physical
foundation for commercial activity and provide the basic framework for
continued and expanded economic opportunities and quality communities
throughout Oregon. 

       (b) Such
financial assistance to cities will therefore promote economic development
within this state, and thus the use of net proceeds derived from the operation
of the Oregon State Lottery to pay debt service on lottery bonds issued under
this section to provide such financial assistance to cities is an appropriate
use of state lottery funds under section 4, Article XV of the Oregon
Constitution, and ORS 461.510. 

       (3) Lottery bonds
issued pursuant to this section shall be issued only at the request of the
Director of the Oregon Business Development Department. 

       (4) The net
proceeds of lottery bonds issued pursuant to this section shall be deposited in
the Economic Infrastructure Project Fund established by ORS 285B.551. The
Director of the Oregon Business Development Department shall allocate the
moneys deposited in the Economic Infrastructure Project Fund for the purpose
described in this section in accordance with the priorities developed by the
Oregon Business Development Commission in accordance with ORS 285A.020. 

       (5) The proceeds
of lottery bonds issued pursuant to this section shall be used only for the
purposes set forth in this section and for bond-related costs. [Formerly
286.585] 

   

 PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS 

   

       286A.605
Definitions for ORS 286A.605 to 286A.625. As used in ORS 286A.605 to 286A.625: 

       (1) “Issuer”
means an entity that may issue private activity bonds that are qualified bonds
on which the interest is exempt from federal taxation. 

       (2) “Private
activity bonds” has the meaning given in section 141 of the Internal Revenue
Code. [Formerly 286.605] 

   

       286A.615
Private Activity Bond Committee; purpose of private activity bonding;
suballocation; rules. 
(1) The Private Activity Bond Committee is established. It shall consist of the
State Treasurer or the designee of the State Treasurer, one representative from
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and one public representative
appointed to serve at the pleasure of the Governor. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer, or the State Treasurer’s designee, shall serve as chair of the
committee. 

       (3) The purpose
of private activity bonding in this state is to maximize the economic benefits
of private activity bonding to the citizens of this state. The committee shall
adopt by rule standards for amounts allocated to the committee for further
allocation for economic development, housing, education, redevelopment, public
works, energy, waste management, waste and recycling collection, transportation
and other activities that the committee determines will benefit the citizens of
this state. In developing standards, the committee shall: 

       (a) Survey the
expected need for private activity bond allocations at least once each year; 

       (b) Develop
strategies for reserving and allocating the limit that are designed to maximize
the availability of tax exempt financing among competing sectors of the Oregon
economy; and 

       (c) Ensure that
the standards include but are not limited to standards that: 

       (A) Support
projects that increase the number of family wage jobs in this state. 

       (B) Promote
economic recovery in small cities heavily dependent on a single industry. 

       (C) Emphasize
development in underdeveloped rural areas of this state. 

       (D) Utilize
educational resources available at public universities listed in ORS 352.002. 

       (E) Support
development of the state’s small businesses, especially minority-owned
businesses, woman-owned businesses, veteran-owned businesses and emerging small
businesses, as those terms are defined in ORS 200.005. 

       (F) Encourage use
of Oregon’s human and natural resources in endeavors that harness Oregon’s
economic comparative advantages. 

       (4) The state
private activity bond volume cap allocated to the Private Activity Bond
Committee as provided in ORS 286A.620 shall be allocated and reallocated among
issuers by the Private Activity Bond Committee as follows: 

       (a) Any amounts
not reserved to an issuer or a class of issuers under the authorization adopted
by the Legislative Assembly under ORS 286A.035 shall be allocated or
reallocated by the committee under rules adopted under subsection (3) of this
section. 

       (b) Any amounts
provided for in the authorization adopted by the Legislative Assembly under ORS
286A.035 that are unused shall be carried forward for use as provided by rules
adopted under subsection (3) of this section. 

       (c) The rules
adopted by the committee shall limit the period of time for which an allocation
of private activity bonding authority is effective. The rules shall ensure that
allocations made during a calendar year are used during that calendar year or
that the unused amount of the allocation is reallocated or carried forward. 

       (5) Amounts
allocated to a state agency on behalf of which the State Treasurer may issue
bonds may be suballocated by the state agency, at the state agency’s
discretion, through an assignment of the allocation to another issuer, provided
that the issuer receiving the assignment shall: 

       (a) Use the
allocation for the same category of private activity bond projects for which
the allocation was made; 

       (b) Use the
allocation during the calendar year for which the allocation was made; and 

       (c) Otherwise
comply with any terms and conditions imposed in connection with the allocation
by the committee or the Legislative Assembly or by rule of the state agency
making the assignment. [Formerly 286.615; 2011 c.637 §95; 2015 c.565 §18; 2023
c.174 §2; 2023 c.497 §19] 

   

       286A.620
Private activity bond volume cap. 
The Legislative Assembly may allocate the amount of private activity bond
volume cap among state agencies and the Private Activity Bond Committee for the
two calendar years that begin in a biennium. Any volume cap that the state
receives that is not allocated by the Legislative Assembly may be allocated by
the Private Activity Bond Committee. [2007 c.783 §31] 

   

       286A.625 State
Treasurer to maintain records. 
The State Treasurer shall maintain the official state private activity bond
volume cap records and provide administrative support to the Private Activity
Bond Committee. [Formerly 286.645] 

   

       286A.630
Reallocation of private activity bond cap; rules. (1) The Legislative Assembly finds
that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5) provides
that the State of Oregon may receive, allocate and reallocate the authority to
issue certain kinds of state and local government bonds that qualify for tax
credits, federal subsidies or exclusion of bond interest from gross income
under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

       (2) As described
in subsections (3) to (6) of this section, state agencies and the Private
Activity Bond Committee may allocate and reallocate or take any additional
actions that are desirable to maximize the benefits of bonding programs created
or expanded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5). 

       (3) The
Department of Education, with the approval of the Governor, may allocate,
reallocate and otherwise manage this state’s qualified school construction
bonding authority. 

       (4) The Oregon
Business Development Department may allocate, reallocate and otherwise manage
this state’s recovery zone economic development bonding authority and this
state’s recovery zone facility bonding authority. 

       (5) The State
Department of Energy may allocate, reallocate and otherwise manage this state’s
qualified energy conservation bonding authority. 

       (6) The Private
Activity Bond Committee may allocate, reallocate and otherwise manage any
bonding authority that is created or expanded by the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5) if that responsibility is not assigned to
a state agency by this section, or if an agency that is assigned that
responsibility requests the Private Activity Bond Committee to allocate that
authority on behalf of that agency. 

       (7) The
Department of Education, the Oregon Business Development Department, the State
Department of Energy and the Private Activity Bond Committee may adopt rules to
implement the provisions of this section including, but not limited to, rules
prescribing: 

       (a) Application
processes and requirements to receive a subsequent allocation or reallocation; 

       (b) Standards
upon which an allocation or reallocation may be based; and 

       (c) Any
conditions that must be met to receive an allocation or reallocation of the
bonding authority or to receive the benefits of such bonding authority. [2009
c.885 §12] 

   

 BACCALAUREATE BONDS 

   

       286A.700
Authority to issue baccalaureate bonds. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Oregon
Baccalaureate Bonds” means bonds of the State of Oregon issued by the State
Treasurer at the request of the Higher Education Coordinating Commission that
are designated as baccalaureate bonds. 

       (b) “Post-secondary
education” means training and instruction provided by fully accredited public
universities or private institutions of higher learning, community colleges and
post-high-school career schools. 

       (2) The
Legislative Assembly encourages citizens of the State of Oregon to avail
themselves of post-secondary education opportunities. 

       (3) The
Legislative Assembly finds: 

       (a) For the
benefit of its citizens, the state supports a system of common schools, public
universities and community colleges. 

       (b) A
post-secondary education advances a citizen’s ability to pursue life, liberty
and happiness through a wide range of employment opportunities. 

       (c) A
well-educated citizenry contributes to the economic well-being of the state and
nation. 

       (d) A
well-trained and skilled citizenry enhances economic development of the state. 

       (e) While
students have just begun their education upon completion of a formal education,
a lifetime pursuit of learning contributes to a well-informed citizenry and to
Oregon’s cherished quality of life. 

       (f) Citizens
educated in Oregon are more likely to pursue careers in Oregon. 

       (g) It is in the
interest of this state to encourage its citizens to plan and save for a
post-secondary education. 

       (h) An Oregon
Baccalaureate Bond program that provides citizens an opportunity to save for a
post-secondary education for their children, themselves or any citizen is in
the social and economic interest of the State of Oregon. 

       (i) A systematic
way to save for post-secondary education can assist all of Oregon’s higher
education, community college and career schools to better project enrollments,
thereby permitting the prudent allocation of scarce resources. 

       (4) At the
request of the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, the State Treasurer
may: 

       (a) Issue bonds
as Oregon Baccalaureate Bonds, to encourage investors to save for
post-secondary education opportunities. 

       (b) Investigate
and implement the means and procedures to facilitate the participation by the
broadest practical range of investors in the Oregon Baccalaureate Bond program.
The means and procedures may include, but are not limited to, adjustments in
the denominations in which the bonds are issued and the frequency with which
the bonds are issued. 

       (5) The purchase
of an Oregon Baccalaureate Bond does not guarantee the purchaser, owner or
beneficiary of the bond admittance to a public university or private
post-secondary institution. [2007 c.783 §33; 2011 c.637 §96; 2013 c.768 §123d;
2015 c.767 §9] 

   

 WATER POWER BONDS 

   

       286A.710
Definitions for ORS 286A.710 to 286A.720. As used in ORS 286A.710 to 286A.720: 

       (1) “Article XI-D
bonds” means general obligation bonds issued under the authority of Article
XI-D of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-D bonds; 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-D bonds
including, but not limited to, redeeming Article XI-D bonds and paying amounts
due in connection with credit enhancements or the administrative costs and
expenses of the State Treasurer, the State Department of Energy and the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, including costs of consultants or
advisers retained by the State Treasurer, the State Department of Energy or the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services for the purpose of issuing,
administering or maintaining Article XI-D bonds; 

       (c) Capitalized
interest on Article XI-D bonds; 

       (d) Costs of
funding reserves for Article XI-D bonds, including costs of surety bonds and
similar instruments; 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due the United States Government in connection with Article XI-D
bonds; and 

       (f) Other costs
or expenses that the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services determines are necessary or desirable in connection with issuing,
administering or maintaining Article XI-D bonds. [2009 c.893 §2] 

   

       286A.712
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) Article XI-D bonds are a general obligation of
the State of Oregon and must contain a direct promise on behalf of the State of
Oregon to pay the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on the
Article XI-D bonds. The State of Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit
and taxing power to pay Article XI-D bonds, except that the ad valorem taxing
power of the State of Oregon may not be pledged to pay Article XI-D bonds. 

       (2) In accordance
with the applicable provisions of this chapter, the State Treasurer, with the
concurrence of the Director of the State Department of Energy, may issue
Article XI-D bonds: 

       (a) At the
request of the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for
any of the purposes specified in Article XI-D of the Oregon Constitution, plus
an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated bond-related
costs; and 

       (b) Subject to
the limit on bond issuance established for the particular biennium in ORS
286A.035. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-D bonds for the purpose of financing the refund
of Article XI-D bonds. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer shall transfer the net proceeds of Article XI-D bonds issued for the
purpose described in subsection (2)(a) of this section to the State Department
of Energy for deposit in the Renewable Energy Fund established under ORS
286A.718. [2009 c.893 §3; 2017 c.9 §18] 

   

       286A.714
Article XI-D Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-D Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond fund may be invested as
provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond fund must
be credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
for the purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on and the
premium, if any, on outstanding Article XI-D bonds. The department shall
deposit in the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-D bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; and 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-D bonds. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond fund for reserves and debt
service for each series of Article XI-D bonds. [2009 c.893 §4] 

   

       286A.716
Article XI-D Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-D Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond administration fund may be invested
as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond
administration fund must be credited to the bond administration fund. Amounts
credited to the bond administration fund are continuously appropriated to the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services for payment of bond-related costs.
The department shall credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-D bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; and 

       (c) Amounts
transferred from the Renewable Energy Fund by the State Department of Energy as
provided in ORS 286A.718. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond administration fund. [2009
c.893 §5] 

   

       286A.718
Renewable Energy Fund; purposes; rules. (1) The Renewable Energy Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the
fund may be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned
on the fund must be credited to the fund. Amounts credited to the fund are
continuously appropriated to the State Department of Energy for the purpose
described in ORS 286A.712 (2)(a) and for the purpose of paying bond-related
costs. The department shall deposit in the fund: 

       (a) The net
proceeds of Article XI-D bonds transferred pursuant to ORS 286A.712 (4); 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the fund; and 

       (c) Gifts, grants
or contributions received by the department for the purpose described in ORS
286A.712 (2)(a). 

       (2) The State
Department of Energy may create separate accounts in the Renewable Energy Fund
as appropriate for the management of moneys in the fund. 

       (3) The State
Department of Energy and any other state agency or other entity receiving or
holding net proceeds of Article XI-D bonds shall, at the direction of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services, take action necessary to maintain
the excludability of interest on Article XI-D bonds from gross income under the
Internal Revenue Code. 

       (4) If at any
time the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the State Department
of Energy determines that there are moneys in the Renewable Energy Fund in
excess of the amounts necessary for the purpose described in ORS 286A.712
(2)(a), the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the State
Department of Energy may transfer the excess amounts to the Article XI-D Bond
Fund or to the Article XI-D Bond Administration Fund. 

       (5) The State
Department of Energy may adopt rules to carry out this section, including
procedures for distributing and monitoring the use of moneys from the Renewable
Energy Fund. [2009 c.893 §6] 

   

       286A.720
Payment of bond-related costs. 
For each biennium in which Article XI-D bonds will be outstanding, the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services shall include in the Governor’s budget an
amount that, when added to the amount on deposit in the Article XI-D Bond Fund
and the Article XI-D Bond Administration Fund, is sufficient to pay the
bond-related costs that are scheduled to come due in the biennium. [2009 c.893 §7;
2016 c.117 §48] 

   

 PENSION LIABILITY BONDS 

   

       286A.730
Definitions for ORS 286A.730 to 286A.750. As used in ORS 286A.730 to 286A.750, unless the
context requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Article XI-O
bonds” means general obligation bonds or other general obligation indebtedness
issued or incurred under the authority of Article XI-O of the Oregon
Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond
administration fund” means the Article XI-O Bond Administration Fund
established under ORS 286A.745. 

       (3) “Bond fund”
means the Article XI-O Bond Fund established under ORS 286A.740. 

       (4) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-O bonds; 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-O bonds
including, but not limited to, redeeming Article XI-O bonds, paying amounts due
in connection with bond insurance, other credit enhancements or the
administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer and the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, including costs of consultants or
advisors retained by the State Treasurer or the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services for the purpose of issuing, administering or
maintaining Article XI-O bonds; 

       (c) Capitalized
interest on Article XI-O bonds; 

       (d) Costs of
funding reserves for Article XI-O bonds, including costs of surety bonds and
similar instruments; 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due the United States Government in connection with Article XI-O
bonds; and 

       (f) Other costs
or expenses that the State Treasurer or the Director of the Oregon Department
of Administrative Services determines are necessary or desirable in connection
with issuing, administering or maintaining Article XI-O bonds. 

       (5) “State agency”
means a state officer, board, commission, corporation, institution, department
or other state organization that has officers or employees participating in the
Public Employees Retirement System. [Formerly 286.730] 

   

       286A.735
Authority of State Treasurer to issue pension liability bonds; nature and
purpose of bonds; refunding bonds. 
(1) Article XI-O bonds are a general obligation of the State of Oregon and must
contain a direct promise on behalf of the State of Oregon to pay the principal
of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on the Article XI-O bonds. The
State of Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit and taxing power to pay
Article XI-O bonds; however, the ad valorem taxing power of the State of Oregon
may not be pledged to pay Article XI-O bonds. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-O bonds: 

       (a) To finance
all or a portion of the state’s pension liabilities for retirement, health care
or disability benefits, in an amount that produces net proceeds that do not
exceed the State Treasurer’s estimate of those liabilities based on information
provided to the State Treasurer by the Public Employees Retirement System, plus
an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated bond-related
costs. If Article XI-O bonds are issued for a purpose described in this
paragraph, the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall
allocate the bond-related costs of those Article XI-O bonds among affected
state agencies based on their payroll costs and shall bill those state agencies
for an appropriate share of the bond-related costs on a monthly or other
periodic basis. A state agency receiving a bill under this paragraph shall pay
the amounts billed from the first moneys legally available to the state agency
after paying the costs incurred for obligations under ORS 283.085 to 283.092. 

       (b) To refund
Article XI-O bonds. The amount of Article XI-O bonds issued under this
paragraph may not exceed the estimated costs of paying, redeeming or defeasing
the refunded bonds, plus an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay
estimated bond-related costs. If Article XI-O bonds are issued under this
paragraph, the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
shall bill a state agency that was responsible for payment of the refunded
bonds for an appropriate share of the bond-related costs on a monthly or other
periodic basis. A state agency receiving a bill under this paragraph shall pay
the amounts billed from the first moneys legally available to the state agency
after paying the costs incurred for obligations under ORS 283.085 to 283.092. 

       (3) The net
proceeds of Article XI-O bonds issued to finance all or a portion the state’s
pension liabilities for retirement, health care or disability benefits must be
transferred to the Public Employees Retirement Board for deposit in the Public
Employees Retirement Fund established under ORS 238.660. [Formerly 286.735] 

   

       286A.740
Article XI-O Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-O Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned on the bond fund must be
credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund are continuously
appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for the
purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on and the premium,
if any, on outstanding Article XI-O bonds. The Oregon Department of
Administrative Services shall credit to the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-O bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-O bonds; and 

       (d) Amounts
received in payment of a bill for bond-related costs in amounts and at times so
that sufficient moneys are available in the bond fund to pay the principal of,
the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article XI-O bonds when due. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond fund for reserves and debt
service for each series of Article XI-O bonds. [Formerly 286.740] 

   

       286A.745
Article XI-O Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-O Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Interest earned on the bond administration fund must be
credited to the bond administration fund. Amounts credited to the bond
administration fund are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services for payment of bond-related costs. The department shall
credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-O bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs that are not
credited to the bond fund; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; and 

       (c) Amounts
received in payment of a bill for bond-related costs that are not credited to
the bond fund. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond administration fund. [Formerly
286.745] 

   

       286A.750 Terms
and conditions of pension liability bonds. (1) In accordance with the applicable provisions of
this chapter, the State Treasurer, after consulting with the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services, may issue Article XI-O bonds from
time to time for the purposes described in ORS 286A.735 (2). 

       (2) Article XI-O
bonds may be issued and sold as provided in this chapter. 

       (3) Subject to
the approval of the State Treasurer, the Director of the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services may: 

       (a) Enter into
agreements with a trustee or escrow agent regarding the use and application of
the amounts held in the Article XI-O Bond Fund or the Article XI-O Bond
Administration Fund; and 

       (b) Transfer
amounts credited to the bond fund or the bond administration fund to a trustee
or escrow agent. [Formerly 286.750] 

   

 SEISMIC REHABILITATION
BONDS 

   

 (Public Education
Buildings) 

   

       286A.760
Definitions for ORS 286A.760 to 286A.772. As used in ORS 286A.760 to 286A.772, unless the
context requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Article XI-M
bonds” means general obligation bonds or other general obligation indebtedness
issued or incurred under the authority of Article XI-M of the Oregon
Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond
administration fund” means the Article XI-M Bond Administration Fund
established under ORS 286A.766. 

       (3) “Bond fund”
means the Article XI-M Bond Fund established under ORS 286A.764. 

       (4) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-M bonds; 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-M bonds
including, but not limited to, redeeming Article XI-M bonds and paying amounts
due in connection with bond insurance, other credit enhancements or the
administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer and the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, including costs of consultants or
advisers retained by the State Treasurer or the department for the purpose of
issuing, administering or maintaining Article XI-M bonds; 

       (c) Capitalized
interest on Article XI-M bonds; 

       (d) Costs of
funding reserves for Article XI-M bonds, including costs of surety bonds and
similar instruments; 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due the United States Government in connection with Article XI-M
bonds; and 

       (f) Other costs
or expenses that the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services determines are necessary or desirable in connection with issuing,
administering or maintaining Article XI-M bonds. 

       (5) “Plan and
implement seismic rehabilitation” includes: 

       (a) Surveying and
conducting engineering evaluations of the need for seismic rehabilitation; and 

       (b) Paying costs
of personnel, advisors, equipment, supplies and services that are reasonably
necessary to develop and carry out the seismic rehabilitation grant program
described in ORS 401.910. 

       (6) “Seismic fund”
means the Education Seismic Fund established under ORS 286A.768. 

       (7) “State share
of costs” means total costs minus contributions from applicants as required by
the Oregon Business Development Department. [Formerly 286.760; 2013 c.782 §4;
2016 c.55 §1] 

   

       286A.762
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) Article XI-M bonds are a general obligation of
the State of Oregon and must contain a direct promise on behalf of the State of
Oregon to pay the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on the
Article XI-M bonds. The State of Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit
and taxing power to pay Article XI-M bonds, except that the ad valorem taxing
power of the State of Oregon may not be pledged to pay Article XI-M bonds. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Director of the Oregon Business
Development Department, may issue Article XI-M bonds as provided in this
chapter, subject to the limit on bond issuance established for the particular
biennium pursuant to ORS 286A.035 and at the request of the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services, for the purpose of financing all
or a portion of the state share of costs to plan and implement seismic
rehabilitation of public education buildings in the amount of the state share
of costs, plus an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated
bond-related costs. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer shall transfer the net proceeds of Article XI-M bonds issued for the
purpose described in subsection (2)(a) of this section to the Oregon Business
Development Department for deposit in the Education Seismic Fund established
under ORS 286A.768. [Formerly 286.762; 2013 c.782 §5; 2017 c.9 §19] 

   

       286A.764
Article XI-M Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-M Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond fund may be invested as
provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond fund must
be credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
for the purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on and the
premium, if any, on outstanding Article XI-M bonds. The department shall
deposit in the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-M bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; and 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-M bonds. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond fund for reserves and debt
service for each series of Article XI-M bonds. [Formerly 286.764] 

   

       286A.766
Article XI-M Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-M Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond administration fund may be invested
as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond
administration fund must be credited to the bond administration fund. Amounts
credited to the bond administration fund are continuously appropriated to the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services for payment of bond-related costs.
The department shall credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-M bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; and 

       (c) Amounts
transferred from the Education Seismic Fund by the Oregon Business Development
Department as provided in ORS 286A.768. 

       (2) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services may create separate accounts in the bond
administration fund. [Formerly 286.766; 2013 c.782 §6] 

   

       286A.768
Education Seismic Fund; purposes; rules. (1) The Education Seismic Fund is established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the
seismic fund may be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and
interest earned on the seismic fund must be credited to the seismic fund.
Amounts credited to the seismic fund are continuously appropriated to the
Oregon Business Development Department for the purpose described in ORS
286A.762 (2) and for the purpose of paying bond-related costs. The department
shall deposit in the seismic fund: 

       (a) The net
proceeds of Article XI-M bonds transferred pursuant to ORS 286A.762 (3); 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the seismic fund; 

       (c) Gifts, grants
or contributions received by the department for the purpose described in ORS
286A.762 (2); and 

       (d) Moneys
received as repayment of, as a return on or in exchange for the grant or loan
of net proceeds of Article XI-M bonds. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the seismic fund as appropriate for
the management of moneys in the seismic fund. 

       (3) The
department and any other state agency or other entity receiving or holding net
proceeds of Article XI-M bonds shall, at the direction of the Oregon Department
of Administrative Services, take action necessary to maintain the excludability
of interest on Article XI-M bonds from gross income under the Internal Revenue
Code. 

       (4) The
department shall transfer to the Article XI-M Bond Administration Fund the
unexpended and uncommitted amounts remaining in the seismic fund if: 

       (a) Unexpended
funds that are not contractually committed to a particular purpose remain in
the seismic fund on the last day of the biennium; and 

       (b) Article XI-M
bonds will be outstanding in the next biennium. 

       (5) The
department may adopt rules to carry out this section including, but not limited
to, establishing: 

       (a) Required
contributions from applicants; 

       (b) Fees; 

       (c) Standards,
terms and conditions under which moneys in the seismic fund may be granted,
loaned or otherwise made available; and 

       (d) Procedures
for distributing and monitoring the use of moneys from the seismic fund. [Formerly
286.768; 2013 c.782 §7] 

   

       286A.772
Payment of bond-related costs. 
For each biennium in which Article XI-M bonds will be outstanding, the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services shall include in the Governor’s budget an
amount that, when added to the amount on deposit in the Article XI-M Bond Fund
and the Article XI-M Bond Administration Fund, is sufficient to pay the
bond-related costs that are scheduled to come due in the biennium. [Formerly
286.772; 2016 c.117 §49] 

   

 (Emergency Services
Buildings) 

   

       286A.780
Definitions for ORS 286A.780 to 286A.792. As used in ORS 286A.780 to 286A.792, unless the
context requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Article XI-N
bonds” means general obligation bonds or other general obligation indebtedness
issued or incurred under the authority of Article XI-N of the Oregon
Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond
administration fund” means the Article XI-N Bond Administration Fund
established under ORS 286A.786. 

       (3) “Bond fund”
means the Article XI-N Bond Fund established under ORS 286A.784. 

       (4) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-N bonds; 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-N bonds
including, but not limited to, redeeming Article XI-N bonds and paying amounts
due in connection with bond insurance, other credit enhancements or the
administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer and the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, including costs of consultants or
advisers retained by the State Treasurer or the department for the purpose of
issuing, administering or maintaining Article XI-N bonds; 

       (c) Capitalized
interest on Article XI-N bonds; 

       (d) Costs of
funding reserves for Article XI-N bonds, including costs of surety bonds and
similar instruments; 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due the United States Government in connection with Article XI-N
bonds; and 

       (f) Other costs
or expenses that the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services determines are necessary or desirable in connection with issuing,
administering or maintaining Article XI-N bonds. 

       (5) “Plan and
implement seismic rehabilitation” includes: 

       (a) Surveying and
conducting engineering evaluations of the need for seismic rehabilitation; and 

       (b) Paying costs
of personnel, advisors, equipment, supplies and services that are reasonably
necessary to develop and carry out the seismic rehabilitation grant program
described in ORS 401.910. 

       (6) “Seismic fund”
means the Emergency Services Seismic Fund established under ORS 286A.788. 

       (7) “State share
of costs” means total costs minus contributions from applicants as required by
the Oregon Business Development Department. [Formerly 286.780; 2013 c.782 §8;
2016 c.55 §2] 

   

       286A.782
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) Article XI-N bonds are a general obligation of
the State of Oregon and must contain a direct promise on behalf of the State of
Oregon to pay the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on the
Article XI-N bonds. The State of Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit
and taxing power to pay Article XI-N bonds, except that the ad valorem taxing
power of the State of Oregon may not be pledged to pay Article XI-N bonds. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Director of the Oregon Business
Development Department, may issue Article XI-N bonds as provided in this
chapter, subject to the limit on bond issuance established for the particular
biennium pursuant to ORS 286A.035 and at the request of the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services, for the purpose of financing all
or a portion of the state share of costs to plan and implement seismic
rehabilitation of emergency services buildings in the amount of the state share
of costs, plus an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated
bond-related costs. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer shall transfer the net proceeds of Article XI-N bonds issued for the
purpose described in subsection (2) of this section to the Oregon Business
Development Department for deposit in the Emergency Services Seismic Fund
established under ORS 286A.788. [Formerly 286.782; 2013 c.782 §9; 2017 c.9 §20] 

   

       286A.784
Article XI-N Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-N Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond fund may be invested as
provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond fund must
be credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund are
continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
for the purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on and the
premium, if any, on outstanding Article XI-N bonds. The department shall
deposit in the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-N bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; and 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-N bonds. 

       (2) The
department may create separate accounts in the bond fund for reserves and debt
service for each series of Article XI-N bonds. [Formerly 286.784] 

   

       286A.786
Article XI-N Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-N Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Amounts in the bond administration fund may be invested
as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the bond
administration fund must be credited to the bond administration fund. Amounts
credited to the bond administration fund are continuously appropriated to the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services for payment of bond-related costs.
The department shall credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-N bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; and 

       (c) Amounts
transferred from the Emergency Services Seismic Fund by the Oregon Business
Development Department as provided in ORS 286A.788. 

       (2) The Oregon
Department of Administrative Services may create separate accounts in the bond
administration fund. [Formerly 286.786; 2013 c.782 §10] 

   

       286A.788
Emergency Services Seismic Fund; purposes; rules; fees. (1) The Emergency Services Seismic
Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct from the
General Fund. Amounts in the seismic fund may be invested as provided in ORS
293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the seismic fund must be credited to
the seismic fund. Amounts credited to the seismic fund are continuously
appropriated to the Oregon Business Development Department for the purpose
described in ORS 286A.782 (2) and for the purpose of paying bond-related costs.
The department shall deposit in the seismic fund: 

       (a) The net
proceeds of Article XI-N bonds transferred pursuant to ORS 286A.782 (3); 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the seismic fund; 

       (c) Gifts, grants
or contributions received by the department for the purpose described in ORS
286A.782 (2); and 

       (d) Moneys
received as repayment of, as a return on or in exchange for the grant or loan
of net proceeds of Article XI-N bonds. 

       (2) The Oregon
Business Development Department may create separate accounts in the seismic
fund as appropriate for the management of moneys in the seismic fund. 

       (3) The Oregon
Business Development Department and any other state agency or other entity
receiving or holding net proceeds of Article XI-N bonds shall, at the direction
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services, take action necessary to
maintain the excludability of interest on Article XI-N bonds from gross income
under the Internal Revenue Code. 

       (4) The Oregon
Business Development Department shall transfer to the Article XI-N Bond
Administration Fund the unexpended and uncommitted amounts remaining in the
seismic fund if: 

       (a) Unexpended
funds that are not contractually committed to a particular purpose remain in
the seismic fund on the last day of the biennium; and 

       (b) Article XI-N
bonds will be outstanding in the next biennium. 

       (5) The Oregon
Business Development Department may adopt rules to carry out this section
including, but not limited to, establishing: 

       (a) Required
contributions from applicants; 

       (b) Fees; 

       (c) Standards,
terms and conditions under which moneys in the seismic fund may be granted,
loaned or otherwise made available; and 

       (d) Procedures
for distributing and monitoring the use of moneys from the seismic fund. [Formerly
286.788; 2013 c.782 §11] 

   

       286A.792
Payment of bond-related costs. 
For each biennium in which Article XI-N bonds will be outstanding, the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services shall include in the Governor’s budget an
amount that, when added to the amount on deposit in the Article XI-N Bond Fund
and the Article XI-N Bond Administration Fund, is sufficient to pay the
bond-related costs that are scheduled to come due in the biennium. [Formerly
286.792; 2016 c.117 §50] 

   

 SCHOOL CAPITAL MATCHING
BONDS 

   

       286A.796
Definitions for ORS 286A.796 to 286A.806. As used in ORS 286A.796 to 286A.806: 

       (1) “Article XI-P
bonds” means general obligation bonds issued under the authority of Article
XI-P of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-P bonds. 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-P bonds
including, but not limited to, the costs and expenses of: 

       (A) Redeeming
Article XI-P bonds. 

       (B) Paying
amounts due in connection with credit enhancement devices or agreements for
exchange of interest rates. 

       (C) Paying the
fees, administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer, the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Education,
including the costs of consultants or advisors retained by the State Treasurer,
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the Department of Education
for the Article XI-P bonds. 

       (c) The costs of
funding reserves for the Article XI-P bonds. 

       (d) Capitalized
interest for the Article XI-P bonds. 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due to the United States in connection with the Article XI-P bonds. 

       (f) Any other
costs or expenses that the State Treasurer, the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services or the Department of Education determines are necessary
or desirable in connection with issuing and maintaining the Article XI-P bonds. 

       (3) “Capital
costs” means costs of land and of other assets having a useful life of more
than one year, including costs associated with acquisition, construction,
improvement, remodeling, furnishing, equipping, maintenance or repair. [2011
c.699 §1] 

   

       286A.798
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) In accordance with the applicable provisions of
ORS chapter 286A, the State Treasurer, with the concurrence of the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, may issue Article XI-P bonds: 

       (a) At the
request of the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for
the purposes specified in Article XI-P of the Oregon Constitution, plus an
amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated bond-related costs;
and 

       (b) Subject to
the budget authorization for bond issuance established under ORS 286A.035 for
the Department of Education for the biennium. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-P bonds for the purpose of refunding Article
XI-P bonds. 

       (3) The net
proceeds of Article XI-P bonds must be deposited in the School Capital Matching
Fund established under ORS 286A.806 as described in section 4, Article XI-P of
the Oregon Constitution. 

       (4) If at any
time the superintendent determines that the net proceeds of Article XI-P bonds
deposited in the School Capital Matching Fund pursuant to subsection (3) of
this section exceed the amount necessary for the purposes described in
subsection (1)(a) of this section and the budget authorization, the
superintendent, in consultation with the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services, may transfer the excess amount to the Article XI-P Bond Fund
established under ORS 286A.802 or the Article XI-P Bond Administration Fund
established under ORS 286A.804. 

       (5) Article XI-P
bonds are a general obligation of the State of Oregon and must contain a direct
promise on behalf of the State of Oregon to pay the principal of, the interest
on and the premium, if any, on the Article XI-P bonds. The State of Oregon shall
pledge its full faith and credit and taxing power to the payment of the
principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article XI-P bonds,
except that the ad valorem taxing power of the State of Oregon may not be
pledged to pay Article XI-P bonds. [2011 c.699 §2; 2017 c.9 §21] 

   

       286A.800
School capital matching bond program; rules. (1) The State Board of Education shall establish by
rule a program to provide school districts with matching fund grants or loans
for the capital costs of school districts financed with the net proceeds of
Article XI-P bonds issued under ORS 286A.796 to 286A.806. The state board shall
establish, by rule, ratios for matching local moneys with grants, and ratios
for matching local moneys with loans. 

       (2) The
Department of Education, subject to rules adopted by the state board: 

       (a) May provide
matching funds only to a school district that has received voter approval for
local general obligation bonds to finance capital costs. 

       (b) May not
provide financing through grants or loans to finance operating costs of school
districts. [2011 c.699 §3] 

   

       286A.801
Matching fund grants to school districts; requirements; awards; rules. (1) The Department of Education
shall administer a grant program that is financed with the net proceeds of
Article XI-P bonds and that provides matching fund grants to school districts
for capital costs of the school districts. Any construction, improvement,
remodel, equipment, maintenance or repair of a building of a school district
that is financed with a grant received under this section is not required to
meet the standards specified in ORS 286A.810. 

       (2) A school
district that seeks a grant under this section must prepare and submit a
facilities assessment and a long-range facilities plan to the department with
the application for the grant. 

       (3) A school
district is eligible to receive a grant under this section if: 

       (a) The school
district complies with the requirements of this section and rules adopted
pursuant to this section; and 

       (b) Moneys are
available to the school district pursuant to subsection (6) of this section. 

       (4) A school
district that receives a grant under this section must provide matching funds
that meet or exceed the amount of the grant. The matching funds must be from
general obligation bonds approved by the voters of the school district to
finance capital costs of the school district. 

       (5) Grants
awarded under this section shall be calculated as follows, subject to
subsection (8) of this section: 

       (a) For a school
district that provides matching funds in any amount up to $6 million, a
matching ratio for state to local funds of one to one. 

       (b) For a school
district that provides matching funds in any amount greater than $6 million, a
matching ratio for state to local funds that is based on the funding formula
developed as provided in subsection (7)(c) of this section. Grants awarded
under this paragraph shall be for a minimum of $6 million per grant and a
maximum of $12 million per grant. 

       (6)(a) The
department shall award grants to school districts as follows: 

       (A) Sixty-six
percent of funds available for grants shall be based on the priority list
established under subsection (7)(b) of this section; and 

       (B) Thirty-four
percent of funds available for grants shall be provided to school districts
based on the order in which the Department of Education receives the completed
applications for the grants. 

       (b) To the extent
that moneys are available, a school district that receives moneys as provided
by paragraph (a)(A) of this subsection also may receive moneys as provided by
paragraph (a)(B) of this subsection. The total amount the school district
receives may not exceed the maximum amount allowed under subsection (5) of this
section. 

       (7)(a) For the
purpose of awarding grants under this section, the department shall develop a
priority list and a funding formula that are based on factors that may include: 

       (A) The total
assessed value of all tangible property located in the school district; 

       (B) The
percentage of poverty families within the school district, as calculated under
ORS 327.013 (1)(c)(A)(v)(I); 

       (C) The number of
students in average daily membership for the school district, as calculated
under ORS 327.061; and 

       (D) Other factors
adopted by the State Board of Education by rule. 

       (b) The priority
list developed under this subsection shall be used to rank the order in which
school districts may qualify to receive a grant under subsection (6)(a)(A) of
this section. 

       (c) The funding
formula developed under this subsection shall be used to determine the matching
ratio for state to local funds. The funding formula must comply with the limits
described in subsection (5) of this section. 

       (8) To account
for effects of inflation, the State Board of Education shall, by rule,
biennially adjust the dollar amounts specified in subsection (5) of this
section based on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, West Region
(All Items), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United
States Department of Labor. 

       (9) The State
Board of Education may adopt any rules necessary for the administration of this
section. [2015 c.783 §2; 2023 c.175 §1] 

   

       286A.802
Article XI-P Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-P Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the Article XI-P Bond Fund may
be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
bond fund must be credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund
are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services for the purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on
and the premium, if any, on outstanding Article XI-P bonds. The department
shall deposit in the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-P bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-P bonds; and 

       (d) Amounts
transferred from the School Capital Matching Fund established under ORS
286A.806 as described in section 4, Article XI-P of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create separate accounts in
the bond fund for reserves and debt service for each series of Article XI-P
bonds as provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g). [2011 c.699 §4; 2017 c.9 §6] 

   

       286A.804
Article XI-P Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-P Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Amounts in the Article XI-P Bond Administration Fund may
be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
bond administration fund must be credited to the bond administration fund.
Amounts credited to the bond administration fund are continuously appropriated
to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for payment of bond-related
costs. The department shall credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-P bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; and 

       (c) Amounts
transferred from the School Capital Matching Fund established under ORS
286A.806 as described in section 4, Article XI-P of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create separate accounts in
the bond administration fund as provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g). [2011 c.699 §5;
2017 c.9 §7] 

   

       286A.806
School Capital Matching Fund; purposes. Pursuant to section 4, Article XI-P of the Oregon
Constitution, the School Capital Matching Fund is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the School
Capital Matching Fund may be invested as provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g), and
interest earned on moneys in the fund must be credited to the fund. The School
Capital Matching Fund consists of net proceeds of Article XI-P bonds issued
under ORS 286A.796 to 286A.806, moneys from the repayment of loans by school
districts and other moneys made available by the Legislative Assembly for
purposes described in ORS 286A.798 (1) and the budget authorization for bond
issuance established under ORS 286A.035 for the Department of Education. Moneys
in the fund are continuously appropriated to the Department of Education for
the purposes described in ORS 286A.798 (1) and the budget authorization. [2011
c.699 §6; 2013 c.722 §38] 

   

       286A.808
Oregon School Capital Improvement Matching Account; purposes. (1) Pursuant to Article XI-P,
section 4, of the Oregon Constitution, the Oregon School Capital Improvement
Matching Account is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. 

       (2) Amounts in
the Oregon School Capital Improvement Matching Account may be invested as
provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g), and interest earned on moneys in the account
must be credited to the account. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding ORS 286A.806, the Oregon School Capital Improvement Matching
Account consists of net proceeds of Article XI-P bonds and other moneys made
available by the Legislative Assembly for purposes described in ORS 286A.798
(1) and the budget authorization for bond issuance established under ORS
286A.035 for the Department of Education. 

       (4) Moneys in the
Oregon School Capital Improvement Matching Account are continuously
appropriated to the Department of Education for the purposes described in ORS
286A.801. [2015 c.783 §4] 

   

       Note: 286A.808 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter
286A or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       286A.810 LEED
certification of school projects financed with Article XI-P bonds. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Green Globes
program” means a building guidance and assessment program to advance overall
environmental performance and sustainability of commercial buildings
established by the Green Building Initiative. 

       (b) “LEED” means
the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system for
certification of energy efficient and environmentally sustainable buildings
established by the United States Green Building Council. 

       (c) “LEED Silver”
means the second of four tiers of standards for certification in the LEED
rating system. 

       (d) “Two globes”
means the second of four tiers of ratings for certification in the Green Globes
program rating system. 

       (2) If general
obligation bonds are issued under Article XI-P of the Oregon Constitution, and
proceeds from the bonds are used for the construction, improvement, remodel,
equipment, maintenance or repair of a building of a school district, the
building of the school district that is constructed, improved, remodeled,
equipped, maintained or repaired must qualify for, at a minimum: 

       (a) LEED Silver
certification; 

       (b) A two globes
rating from the Green Globes program; or 

       (c) An equivalent
numeric rating from a nationally recognized, accepted and appropriate
sustainable development rating system as determined by the State Department of
Energy. [2011 c.467 §8] 

   

       Note: 286A.810 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter
286A or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

 ARTICLE XI-Q BONDS 

   

       286A.816
Definitions for ORS 286A.816 to 286A.826. As used in ORS 286A.816 to 286A.826: 

       (1) “Article XI-Q
bonds” means general obligation bonds issued under the authority of Article
XI-Q of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article
XI-Q bonds. 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining Article XI-Q bonds
including, but not limited to, the costs and expenses of: 

       (A) Redeeming
Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (B) Paying
amounts due in connection with credit enhancement devices or agreements for
exchange of interest rates. 

       (C) Paying the
fees, administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer, the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services or the project agency, including the
costs of consultants or advisers retained by the State Treasurer, the
department or the project agency. 

       (c) The costs of
funding reserves for the Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (d) Capitalized
interest for the Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due to the United States in connection with the Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (f) Any other
costs or expenses that the State Treasurer, the department or the project
agency determines are necessary or desirable in connection with issuing and
maintaining the Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (3) “Project
agency” means a state agency that administers a project that is financed with
Article XI-Q bond proceeds. [2011 c.14 §2] 

   

       286A.818
Authority of State Treasurer to issue bonds. (1) In accordance with the applicable provisions of
this chapter, the State Treasurer, at the request of the Director of the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services, may issue Article XI-Q bonds: 

       (a) For any of
the purposes specified in Article XI-Q of the Oregon Constitution, plus an
amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated bond-related costs;
and 

       (b) Subject to
the budget authorization for Article XI-Q bond issuance established under ORS
286A.035 for the biennium. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-Q bonds for the purpose of: 

       (a) Refunding
Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (b) Subject to
subsection (3) of this section, refinancing borrowings issued before December
2, 2010, to finance or refinance costs described in section 1 (1), Article XI-Q
of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (c) Paying
bond-related costs. 

       (3) When Article
XI-Q bonds are issued to refinance borrowings issued before December 2, 2010,
the maturity date of the Article XI-Q bonds may not be later than the maturity
date of the refinanced borrowings. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer shall deposit the net proceeds of Article XI-Q bonds issued in one or
more project funds established in the State Treasury or with a third party
approved by the State Treasurer. Net proceeds must be expended in accordance
with procedures established by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
for the purposes described in each project agency’s budget authorization. 

       (5) If at any
time the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and the project agency
determine that the net proceeds of Article XI-Q bonds deposited in a project
fund pursuant to subsection (4) of this section exceed the amount necessary for
the purpose described in the project agency’s budget authorization, the
department may allocate and transfer the excess amount as determined by the
department to other project funds, the Article XI-Q Bond Fund established under
ORS 286A.820 or the Article XI-Q Bond Administration Fund established under ORS
286A.822. 

       (6) Article XI-Q
bonds are a general obligation of the State of Oregon and must contain a direct
promise on behalf of the State of Oregon to pay the principal of, the interest
on and the premium, if any, on the Article XI-Q bonds. The State of Oregon shall
pledge its full faith and credit and taxing power to the payment of the
principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article XI-Q bonds,
except that the ad valorem taxing power of the State of Oregon may not be
pledged to pay Article XI-Q bonds. [2011 c.14 §3] 

   

       286A.820
Article XI-Q Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-Q Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund. Amounts in the Article XI-Q Bond Fund may
be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
bond fund must be credited to the bond fund. Amounts credited to the bond fund
are continuously appropriated to the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services for the purpose of paying, when due, the principal of, the interest on
and the premium, if any, on outstanding Article XI-Q bonds. The department
shall deposit in the bond fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-Q bonds; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond fund; 

       (c) Reserves
established for the payment of Article XI-Q bonds; 

       (d) Amounts
transferred from a project fund as provided in ORS 286A.818 (5); and 

       (e) Amounts paid
by a project agency under ORS 286A.824. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create separate accounts in
the bond fund for reserves and debt service for each series of Article XI-Q
bonds as provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g). [2011 c.14 §4] 

   

       286A.822
Article XI-Q Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-Q Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund. Amounts in the Article XI-Q Bond Administration Fund may
be invested as provided in ORS 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
bond administration fund must be credited to the bond administration fund.
Amounts credited to the bond administration fund are continuously appropriated
to the Oregon Department of Administrative Services for payment of bond-related
costs. The department shall credit to the bond administration fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-Q bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; 

       (b) Amounts
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the bond administration fund; 

       (c) Amounts
transferred from a project fund as provided in ORS 286A.818 (5); and 

       (d) Amounts paid
by a project agency under ORS 286A.824. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create separate accounts in
the bond administration fund as provided in ORS 286A.025 (2)(g). [2011 c.14 §5] 

   

       286A.824
Article XI-Q bond program; rules. 
(1) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services shall adopt procedures
under which a project agency may request: 

       (a) Financing for
real or personal property projects that may be financed with Article XI-Q bond
proceeds; or 

       (b) Refinancing
of borrowings issued before December 2, 2010, that financed or refinanced real
or personal property projects that would have been eligible for financing under
Article XI-Q. The department may periodically bill any project agency for an appropriate
share of the bond-related costs of the bonds issued to finance the agency’s
projects or refinance the agency’s bonds. The department may bill at such
intervals as are established in the department’s procedures and shall deposit
amounts paid by project agencies in the Article XI-Q Bond Fund or the Article
XI-Q Bond Administration Fund as the department determines is appropriate. A
project agency that receives a bill for bond-related costs shall pay the amount
billed by the time and in the manner designated in the billing statement from
amounts budgeted under ORS 286A.826 or, if necessary, from any other amounts
lawfully available for expenditure by the project agency for that purpose. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may authorize a project agency or the department to act as a related
agency under this chapter if necessary or desirable for the issuance or
administration of Article XI-Q bonds, including, without limitation, entering
into contracts or covenants as provided in ORS 286A.025. However, a project
agency may not request the State Treasurer to issue Article XI-Q bonds. 

       (3) If Article
XI-Q bonds are issued to refinance bonds issued before December 2, 2010, and
the bond-related costs of the refinanced bonds were paid by state agencies
under ORS 283.091, under one of the programs described in ORS 291.445 (7) or
under a revenue bond program of this state, the state agency whose bonds are
refinanced may pay the amounts billed under subsection (1) of this section from
the sources of funds previously used by the agency to pay the refinanced bonds
or from any other funds lawfully available for payment of the Article XI-Q
bonds. 

       (4) A project
agency that receives or holds proceeds of Article XI-Q bonds shall, at the
direction of the department, take action necessary to obtain and maintain: 

       (a) The
excludability of interest on Article XI-Q bonds from gross income under the
Internal Revenue Code; or 

       (b) A federal
interest subsidy payment or any other tax-advantaged status granted under the
Internal Revenue Code for the Article XI-Q bonds. [2011 c.14 §6] 

   

       286A.826
Budgeting for Article XI-Q project costs. A project agency shall request that the Governor
include in the Governor’s budget for each biennium amounts that are sufficient
to pay: 

       (1) The costs of
a project financed or to be financed by the issuance of Article XI-Q bonds
during the biennium; 

       (2) Amounts
billed during the biennium by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
under ORS 286A.824; and 

       (3) The
bond-related costs associated with the projects financed or to be financed with
Article XI-Q bonds. [2011 c.14 §7; 2016 c.117 §51] 

   

 HIGHER EDUCATION BONDS 

   

       286A.830
Definitions for ORS 286A.830 to 286A.863. As used in ORS 286A.830 to 286A.863: 

       (1) “Article
XI-F(1) bonds” means bonds issued under the authority of Article XI-F(1) of the
Oregon Constitution for the benefit of a public university. 

       (2) “Article XI-G
bonds” means bonds issued under the authority of Article XI-G of the Oregon
Constitution for the benefit of a public university or a community college. 

       (3) “Bond-related
costs” means: 

       (a) The costs of
paying the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on higher
education bonds; 

       (b) The costs and
expenses of issuing, administering and maintaining higher education bonds
including, but not limited to: 

       (A) Costs and
expenses of redeeming higher education bonds; 

       (B) Amounts due
in connection with credit enhancement devices or agreements for exchange of
interest rates; and 

       (C) Fees,
administrative costs and expenses of the State Treasurer, the Oregon Department
of Administrative Services or the Higher Education Coordinating Commission,
including the costs of consultants or advisers retained by the State Treasurer,
the department or the commission; 

       (c) The costs of
funding reserves for the higher education bonds; 

       (d) Capitalized
interest for the higher education bonds; 

       (e) Rebates or
penalties due to the United States in connection with the higher education
bonds; 

       (f) Expenses and
liabilities arising from an inquiry, audit or other action relating to the
higher education bonds by a federal or state regulatory body, including, but
not limited to, legal expenses; and 

       (g) Any other
costs or expenses that the State Treasurer, the department or the commission
determines are necessary or desirable in connection with issuing and
maintaining the higher education bonds. 

       (4) “Community
college” means a community college or community college district as defined in
ORS 341.005. 

       (5) “Federal tax
benefit” means the excludability of interest on higher education bonds from
gross income under the Internal Revenue Code, the qualification of higher
education bonds for any federal interest subsidy payment or any other
tax-advantaged status granted under the Internal Revenue Code. 

       (6) “Grant
contract” means a contract approved by the department and executed by a public
university or community college and the commission that establishes the terms
and conditions for issuance of Article XI-G bonds and the disbursement of
proceeds to the public university or community college. 

       (7) “Higher
education bonds” means Article XI-F(1) bonds and Article XI-G bonds. 

       (8) “Higher
Education Coordinating Commission” includes all offices that function under the
direction and control of the commission. 

       (9) “Loan
agreement” means a contract approved by the department and executed by a public
university and the commission that establishes the terms and conditions for
issuance of Article XI-F(1) bonds, lending of bond proceeds and loan repayment. 

       (10) “Loan
repayment schedule” means the schedule of repayment of loans made with proceeds
of Article XI-F(1) bonds that a public university is obligated to make to the
State of Oregon pursuant to a loan agreement. 

       (11) “Matching
amount” means moneys unconditionally available to a public university or
community college for the same or similar purposes as the proceeds of Article
XI-G bonds issued for the benefit of the public university or community college
and meeting the requirements set forth in Article XI-G, section 1 (3), of the
Oregon Constitution. 

       (12) “Public
university” means any institution established as a public university under ORS
352.002. 

       (13) “Refunding
bond” means an Article XI-F(1) bond issued for the purpose of refunding an
outstanding Article XI-F(1) bond, or an Article XI-G bond issued for the
purpose of refunding an outstanding Article XI-G bond, regardless of whether
the refunding is on a current, advance, forward delivery, synthetic or other
basis. 

       (14) “Revenue
sufficiency” means the condition of having revenues, not including amounts
appropriated by the Legislative Assembly from the General Fund, that are
conservatively estimated to be lawfully available and sufficient to pay debt
service on particular Article XI-F(1) bonds and operate the projects financed
with the proceeds of those Article XI-F(1) bonds. [2015 c.828 §2; 2016 c.66 §9;
2017 c.9 §9] 

   

       286A.833
Authority of State Treasurer to issue Article XI-F(1) bonds. (1) In accordance with the
applicable provisions of this chapter, the State Treasurer, with the
concurrence of the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, may issue Article
XI-F(1) bonds for the benefit of a public university if: 

       (a) The Director
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services requests that bonds be
issued for the purposes specified in Article XI-F(1) of the Oregon
Constitution, plus an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated
bond-related costs; 

       (b) The issuance
does not exceed the budget authorization for bond issuance established under
ORS 286A.035; and 

       (c) A loan
agreement is executed under ORS 286A.836 prior to sale of the bonds. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-F(1) bonds for the purpose of refunding Article
XI-F(1) bonds, with the concurrence of a public university that received
proceeds of Article XI-F(1) bonds to be refunded. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer shall deposit the net proceeds of Article XI-F(1) bonds in one or
more project funds established in the State Treasury or with a third party
under contract with the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and
approved by the State Treasurer. Net proceeds of Article XI-F(1) bonds must be
expended for the purposes described in the commission’s budget authorization. 

       (4) If at any
time the department and the commission jointly determine that the net proceeds
of Article XI-F(1) bonds deposited in a project fund pursuant to subsection (3)
of this section exceed the cost of the project described in the commission’s
budget authorization, the department may allocate and transfer the excess
amount as determined by the department to other project funds, the Article
XI-F(1) Bond Fund established under ORS 286A.839 or the Article XI-F(1) Bond
Administration Fund established under ORS 286A.842. Before transferring an
excess amount under this subsection, the department shall consult with the
public university for whose benefit the Article XI-F(1) bonds were issued, but
the department may transfer an excess amount without the approval of the public
university. Excess amounts may not be transferred to a project fund for the
project of another public university unless the applicable loan agreements and
loan repayment schedules are amended to reflect the transfer. 

       (5) Article
XI-F(1) bonds are direct general obligations of the State of Oregon and must
contain a direct promise on behalf of the State of Oregon to pay the principal
of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on the Article XI-F(1) bonds. The
State of Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit and taxing power to the
payment of the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on
Article XI-F(1) bonds, and the ad valorem taxing power of the State of Oregon
may be pledged to pay Article XI-F(1) bonds. [2015 c.828 §3; 2017 c.570 §7] 

   

       286A.836 Loan
agreements for Article XI-F(1) bonds. 
Prior to the sale of any Article XI-F(1) bonds, except for refunding bonds, a
public university and the Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall enter
into a loan agreement that includes: 

       (1) A
representation by the public university that it has revenue sufficiency for the
Article XI-F(1) bonds; 

       (2) A loan
repayment schedule and a covenant of the public university to make all required
loan repayment schedule payments to the commission prior to the date any bond
debt service payments are due on the Article XI-F(1) bonds that financed the
loan; 

       (3) Terms and
conditions obligating the public university to maintain any federal tax
benefits related to the Article XI-F(1) bonds and to execute and deliver any
required tax certificates or agreements in connection with any federal tax
benefits related to the Article XI-F(1) bonds; and 

       (4) Terms and
conditions indemnifying the State of Oregon against regulatory or bondholder
liability due to the action or inaction of the public university related to the
Article XI-F(1) bonds. [2015 c.828 §4; 2016 c.66 §10] 

   

       286A.839
Article XI-F(1) Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-F(1) Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury,
separate and distinct from the General Fund, or with a third party under
contract with the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and approved by
the State Treasurer. Moneys in the Article XI-F(1) Bond Fund may be invested as
provided in ORS 286A.025 and 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
fund must be credited to the fund. Moneys credited to the Article XI-F(1) Bond
Fund are continuously appropriated to the department for the purpose of paying,
when due, the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on
outstanding Article XI-F(1) bonds. The department shall deposit in the fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-F(1) bonds; 

       (b) Moneys, if
any, appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit
in the fund; 

       (c) Reserves, if
any, established for the payment of Article XI-F(1) bonds; 

       (d) Moneys
transferred from a project fund under ORS 286A.833 (4); 

       (e) Moneys
received as payment under a loan agreement or the schedule provided under ORS
352.415; 

       (f) Moneys
received from ad valorem taxes levied pursuant to ORS 291.445; and 

       (g) Moneys
provided by the Legislative Assembly in lieu of ad valorem taxes levied
pursuant to ORS 291.445. 

       (2) The
department shall credit any interest earnings in the fund on amounts paid by a
public university pursuant to a loan agreement or the schedule provided under
ORS 352.415 that exceed the amount needed to repay outstanding Article XI-F(1)
bonds issued for the benefit of the public university against the payment
obligations of the public university under a loan agreement or the schedule
provided under ORS 352.415. 

       (3) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create or cause to be
created separate accounts in the fund for reserves and debt service for each
series of Article XI-F(1) bonds. [2015 c.828 §5] 

   

       286A.842
Article XI-F(1) Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-F(1) Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund, or with a third party under contract with the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services and approved by the State Treasurer.
Moneys in the Article XI-F(1) Bond Administration Fund may be invested as
provided in ORS 286A.025 and 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the
fund must be credited to the fund. Moneys credited to the Article XI-F(1) Bond
Administration Fund are continuously appropriated to the department for payment
of bond-related costs. The department shall credit to the fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-F(1) bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; and 

       (b) Moneys
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the fund. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create or cause to be
created separate accounts in the Article XI-F(1) Bond Administration Fund. [2015
c.828 §6] 

   

       286A.845
Budgeting for Article XI-F(1) bonds. 
The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall request that the Governor
include in the Governor’s budget request to the Legislative Assembly for each
biennium amounts that are sufficient to pay: 

       (1) The costs of
loan agreement disbursements during the biennium to public universities for the
costs of projects to be financed by the issuance of Article XI-F(1) bonds; 

       (2) The debt
service due during the biennium for any Article XI-F(1) bonds that have been or
will be issued; 

       (3) Amounts
billed during the biennium by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,
or the commission, under ORS 286A.863 (2); and 

       (4) Any
bond-related costs associated with any Article XI-F(1) bonds. [2015 c.828 §7] 

   

       286A.848
Authority of State Treasurer to issue Article XI-G bonds. (1) In accordance with the
applicable provisions of this chapter, the State Treasurer, with the
concurrence of the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, may issue Article
XI-G bonds for the benefit of a public university or a community college if: 

       (a) The Director
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services requests that bonds be
issued for the purposes specified in Article XI-G of the Oregon Constitution,
plus an amount determined by the State Treasurer to pay estimated bond-related
costs; 

       (b) The issuance
does not exceed the budget authorization for bond issuance established under
ORS 286A.035; and 

       (c) A grant
contract is executed under ORS 286A.851 prior to sale of the bonds. 

       (2) The State
Treasurer may issue Article XI-G bonds for the purpose of refunding Article
XI-G bonds without a request from the director when the State Treasurer
determines it is in the best interests of the State of Oregon to refund Article
XI-G bonds. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer shall deposit the net proceeds of Article XI-G bonds in one or more
project funds established in the State Treasury or with a third party under
contract with the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and approved by
the State Treasurer. Net proceeds of Article XI-G bonds must be expended for
the purposes described in the commission’s budget authorization. 

       (4) If at any
time the department and the commission jointly determine that the net proceeds
of Article XI-G bonds deposited in a project fund pursuant to subsection (3) of
this section exceed the cost of the project described in the commission’s
budget authorization, the department may allocate and transfer the excess
amount as determined by the department to other project funds, the Article XI-G
Bond Fund established under ORS 286A.854 or the Article XI-G Bond
Administration Fund established under ORS 286A.857. 

       (5) Article XI-G
bonds are direct general obligations of the State of Oregon and must contain a
direct promise on behalf of the State of Oregon to pay the principal of, the
interest on and the premium, if any, on the Article XI-G bonds. The State of
Oregon shall pledge its full faith and credit and taxing power to the payment
of the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on Article XI-G
bonds, and the ad valorem taxing power of the State of Oregon may be pledged to
pay Article XI-G bonds. [2015 c.828 §8; 2017 c.9 §10] 

   

       Note: Section 9 (2), chapter 630, Oregon
Laws 2025, provides: 

       Sec. 9. (2) For biennia beginning on or
after July 1, 2025, the aggregate amount authorized for issuance of general
obligation bonds under Article XI-G of the Oregon Constitution for projects at
a single community college may not exceed $12 million. [2025 c.630 §9(2)] 

   

       286A.851 Grant
contracts for Article XI-G bonds. 
(1) Prior to the sale of any Article XI-G bonds, except for refunding bonds, a
public university or a community college and the Higher Education Coordinating
Commission must enter into a grant contract. 

       (2) The grant
contract must include: 

       (a) A
certification that the requirement for a matching amount is satisfied; 

       (b) Terms and
conditions obligating the public university or community college to maintain
any federal tax benefit related to the Article XI-G bonds and to execute and
deliver any required tax certificates or agreements in connection with any
federal tax benefit related to the Article XI-G bonds; and 

       (c) Terms and
conditions indemnifying the State of Oregon against regulatory or bondholder
liability due to the action or inaction of the public university or community
college related to the Article XI-G bonds. 

       (3) The grant
contract may include: 

       (a) Reporting and
accounting requirements or other conditions necessary or advisable to ensure
that moneys are expended for intended purposes; 

       (b) Terms and
conditions that are necessary or advisable to ensure compliance with applicable
laws or regulations; and 

       (c) Provisions
for the payment of fees by a community college to cover costs of the commission
relating to the execution of the commission’s responsibilities under the grant
contract. [2015 c.828 §9; 2016 c.66 §11; 2017 c.9 §11] 

   

       286A.854
Article XI-G Bond Fund; purposes. 
(1) The Article XI-G Bond Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate
and distinct from the General Fund, or with a third party under contract with
the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and approved by the State
Treasurer. Moneys in the Article XI-G Bond Fund may be invested as provided in
ORS 286A.025 and 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the fund must be
credited to the fund. Moneys credited to the Article XI-G Bond Fund are
continuously appropriated to the department for the purpose of paying, when
due, the principal of, the interest on and the premium, if any, on outstanding
Article XI-G bonds. The department shall deposit in the fund: 

       (a) Capitalized
or accrued interest on Article XI-G bonds; 

       (b) Moneys
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the fund; 

       (c) Reserves, if
any, established for the payment of Article XI-G bonds; 

       (d) Moneys
transferred from a project fund under ORS 286A.848 (4); 

       (e) Moneys
received from ad valorem taxes levied pursuant to ORS 291.445; and 

       (f) Moneys
provided by the Legislative Assembly in lieu of ad valorem taxes levied under
ORS 291.445. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create or cause to be
created separate accounts in the fund for reserves and debt service for each
series of Article XI-G bonds. [2015 c.828 §10] 

   

       286A.857
Article XI-G Bond Administration Fund; purposes. (1) The Article XI-G Bond
Administration Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and distinct
from the General Fund, or with a third party under contract with the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services and approved by the State Treasurer.
Moneys in the Article XI-G Bond Administration Fund may be invested as provided
in ORS 286A.025 and 293.701 to 293.857, and interest earned on the fund must be
credited to the fund. Moneys credited to the Article XI-G Bond Administration
Fund are continuously appropriated to the department for payment of
bond-related costs. The department shall credit to the fund: 

       (a) Proceeds of
Article XI-G bonds that were issued to pay bond-related costs; and 

       (b) Moneys
appropriated or otherwise provided by the Legislative Assembly for deposit in
the fund. 

       (2) At the
request of the department, the State Treasurer may create or cause to be
created separate accounts in the Article XI-G Bond Administration Fund. [2015
c.828 §11] 

   

       286A.860
Budgeting for Article XI-G bonds. 
The Higher Education Coordinating Commission shall request that the Governor
include in the Governor’s budget request to the Legislative Assembly for each
biennium amounts that are sufficient to pay: 

       (1) The costs of
grant contract disbursements during the biennium for any projects to be
financed by the issuance of Article XI-G bonds; 

       (2) The debt
service due during the biennium for any Article XI-G bonds that have been or
will be issued; 

       (3) Amounts
billed during the biennium by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services,
or the commission, under ORS 286A.863 (2); and 

       (4) Any
bond-related costs associated with any Article XI-G bonds. [2015 c.828 §12] 

   

       286A.863
Rules; billing of public universities and community colleges; agreements with
Oregon Health and Science University. 
(1) The Oregon Department of Administrative Services may, in consultation with
the Higher Education Coordinating Commission, adopt rules for the purpose of
carrying out ORS 286A.830 to 286A.863, including, but not limited to,
establishing: 

       (a) Fees and
costs to be paid by public universities or community colleges for
administration of higher education bonds, including reasonable fees and
expenses of the State Treasurer as provided in ORS 286A.014; 

       (b) The form,
content and timing of information to be submitted by public universities and
community colleges to be used by the commission and the State Treasurer to
evaluate revenue sufficiency for Article XI-F(1) bonds and availability and
sufficiency of matching amounts for Article XI-G bonds; and 

       (c) Standards,
terms and conditions for maintaining federal tax benefits related to higher
education bonds. 

       (2) The
department or the commission, or both, may periodically bill a public
university or community college, without duplicating costs billed by contract,
for the public university’s or community college’s proportional share of costs
incurred by the department, or the commission, in connection with higher
education bonds, including, but not limited to: 

       (a) Bond-related
costs of higher education bonds issued or proposed to be issued to finance or
refinance projects of the public university or community college; and 

       (b) Costs of
legal or financial consultants or advisors, including, without limitation, bond
counsel to the State of Oregon, for services that are provided at the request
of a public university or community college in connection with higher education
bonds that are issued or proposed to be issued. 

       (3) The
department and the commission may each bill at such intervals as may be
established in the department’s or commission’s own procedures and shall
deposit the moneys received in the applicable bond fund, bond administration
fund or other fund relating to higher education bonds, as the department or
commission determines is appropriate. A public university or community college
that receives a bill for bond-related costs shall pay the amount billed by the
time and in the manner designated in the billing statement. 

       (4)(a) The
department or the commission may enter into agreements with Oregon Health and
Science University to: 

       (A) Receive
payments from Oregon Health and Science University of amounts used to pay debt
service on bonds issued by the State Treasurer to finance joint projects of
Oregon Health and Science University and one or more public universities; or 

       (B) Administer
tax compliance obligations of Oregon Health and Science University. 

       (b) Solely for
the purposes of receiving payments of amounts used to pay debt service and
administering tax compliance obligations related to the bonds, the department
or the commission may be a successor to, or an assignee of, the Oregon
University System under agreements between Oregon Health and Science University
and the Oregon University System. 

       (c) The
department or the commission may not assume any obligations or liability as the
successor to, or assignee of, the Oregon University System under any agreements
between Oregon Health and Science University and the Oregon University System,
except for obligations or liability relating to the receipt of amounts used to
pay debt service and the administration of tax compliance obligations. [2015
c.828 §13; 2017 c.9 §12; 2017 c.17 §22; 2018 c.98 §2] 

   

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
