 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
289 — Oregon Facilities Financing 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 OREGON FACILITIES FINANCING 

   

 PUBLIC BORROWING 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 289.005     Definitions for ORS
chapter 289 

   

 289.010     Findings; purpose 

   

 OREGON FACILITIES AUTHORITY 

   

 289.100     Oregon Facilities
Authority; members; qualifications; term 

   

 289.105     Official action to
undertake project 

   

 289.110     Duties and powers with
respect to projects 

   

 289.115     Functions 

   

 289.120     Limitation on manner of
operating project and expenditure of funds 

   

 289.125     Rules; fees 

   

 289.130     Oregon Facilities
Authority Account 

   

 BONDS 

   

 289.200     Issuance of revenue
bonds; role of State Treasurer; role of Oregon Facilities Authority; fees 

   

 289.205     Expenses of State
Treasurer 

   

 289.210     Refunding bonds 

   

 289.215     Validity of bonds not
affected by other matters regarding project 

   

 289.220     Covenants regarding
bond issuance 

   

 289.225     Sources of bond
repayment restricted; recitations in bonds 

   

 289.230     Actions by bondholders
to enforce rights 

   

 289.235     Loan of bond proceeds
for projects; state not required to have ownership or leasehold interest 

   

 289.240     Report of bonding
activities; rules 

   

 289.250     Limitation on income
tax exemption for interest on revenue bonds 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

       289.005
Definitions for ORS chapter 289. 
(1) As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise: 

       (a) “Authority”
means the Oregon Facilities Authority created by this chapter. 

       (b) “Bonds” or “revenue
bonds” means revenue bonds, as defined in ORS 286A.001. 

       (c) “Cost” means
the cost of: 

       (A) Construction,
acquisition, alteration, enlargement, reconstruction and remodeling of a
project, including all lands, structures, real or personal property, rights,
rights of way, air rights, franchises, easements and interests acquired or used
for or in connection with a project; 

       (B) Demolition or
removal of buildings or structures on land as acquired, including the cost of
acquiring lands to which the buildings or structures may be moved; 

       (C) All machinery
and equipment; 

       (D) Financing
charges, interest prior to, during and for a period after completion of
construction and acquisition, reasonably required amounts to make the project
operational, provisions for reserves for principal and interest and for
extensions, enlargements, additions, replacements, renovations and
improvements; 

       (E)
Architectural, actuarial engineering, financial and legal services, plans
specifications, studies, surveys, estimates of costs and of revenues,
administrative expenses, expenses necessary or incident to determining the
feasibility or practicability of constructing the project; 

       (F) Management,
operation or funding of a qualified program; and 

       (G) Other
expenses that are necessary or incident to a project, the financing of the
project or the placing of the project in operation. 

       (d) “Cultural
institution” means a public or nonprofit institution within this state which
engages in the cultural, intellectual, scientific, environmental, educational
or artistic enrichment of the people of this state. “Cultural institution”
includes, without limitation, aquaria, botanical societies, historical
societies, land conservation organizations, libraries, museums, performing arts
associations or societies, scientific societies, wildlife conservation
organizations and zoological societies. “Cultural institution” does not mean
any school or any institution primarily engaged in religious or sectarian
activities. 

       (e) “Health care
institution” means a public or nonprofit organization within this state that
provides health care and related services, including but not limited to the
provision of inpatient and outpatient care, diagnostic or therapeutic services,
laboratory services, medicinal drugs, nursing care, assisted living, elderly
care and housing, including retirement communities, and equipment used or
useful for the provision of health care and related services. 

       (f) “Housing
institution” means a public or nonprofit organization within this state that
provides decent, affordable housing to low-income persons. 

       (g) “Institution”
means a cultural institution, a health care institution, a housing institution,
an institution for higher education, an institution for prekindergarten through
grade 12 education, a school for persons with disabilities or another
nonprofit. 

       (h) “Institution
for higher education” means a public or nonprofit educational institution
within this state authorized by law to provide a program of education beyond
the high school level, including community colleges and associate degree
granting institutions. “Institution for higher education” does not mean any
school or any institution primarily engaged in religious or sectarian
activities. 

       (i) “Institution
for prekindergarten through grade 12 education” means a provider under the
Oregon Prenatal to Kindergarten Program as defined in ORS 329.175, a public
educational institution within this state authorized by law to provide a
program of education for kindergarten through grade 12 or a nonprofit educational
institution within this state that provides a program of education for
prekindergarten through grade 12 as a private school. “Institution for
prekindergarten through grade 12 education” does not mean a school or
institution primarily engaged in religious or sectarian activities. 

       (j) “Nonprofit”
means an institution, organization or entity within this state exempt from
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as defined in ORS
314.011. 

       (k)(A) “Project”
means the financing or refinancing of the costs, including, without limitation,
acquisition, construction, enlargement, remodeling, renovation, improvement,
furnishing and equipping, of the following: 

       (i) In the case
of a participating institution that is an institution for higher education, an
institution for prekindergarten through grade 12 education or a school for
persons with disabilities, a structure, within this state or outside this
state, that is suitable for use as a dormitory or other multiunit housing
facility for students, faculty, officers or employees, or a dining hall,
student union, administration building, academic building, library, laboratory,
research facility, classroom, athletic facility, health care facility,
maintenance, storage or utility facility and other structures or facilities,
within this state or outside this state, that are related to any of the
structures required or used for the instruction of students, the conducting of
research or the operation of an institution for higher education, an
institution for prekindergarten through grade 12 education or a school for
persons with disabilities. A project defined in this sub-subparagraph includes
landscaping, site preparation, furniture, equipment and machinery and other
similar items necessary or convenient for the operation of a particular
facility or structure in the manner for which its use is intended and also
includes any furnishings, equipment, machinery and other similar items
necessary or convenient for the operation of an institution of higher
education, an institution for prekindergarten through grade 12 education or a
school for persons with disabilities, whether or not the items are related to a
particular facility or structure financed under this chapter. 

       (ii) In the case
of a participating institution that is a housing institution, a structure,
within this state or outside this state, that is suitable for use as housing,
including residences or multiunit housing facilities, administration buildings,
maintenance, storage or utility facilities and other structures or facilities,
within this state or outside this state, that are related to any of the
structures required or used for the operation of the housing, including parking
and other facilities or structures essential or convenient for the orderly
provision of the housing. A project defined in this sub-subparagraph includes
landscaping, site preparation, furniture, equipment and machinery and other
similar items necessary or convenient for the particular housing facility or
structure in the manner for which its use is intended and also includes any
furnishings, equipment, machinery and other similar items necessary or
convenient for the provision of housing, whether or not the items are related
to a particular facility or structure financed under this chapter. 

       (iii) In the case
of a participating institution that is a cultural institution, a structure,
within this state or outside this state, that is suitable for the institution’s
purposes, whether or not to be used to provide educational services, or
research resources, including use as or in connection with an administrative
facility, aquarium, assembly hall, auditorium, botanical garden, exhibition
hall, gallery, greenhouse, library, museum, scientific laboratory, theater or
zoological facility. A project defined in this sub-subparagraph includes
supporting facilities, landscaping, site preparation, furniture, equipment,
machinery and other similar items necessary or convenient for the operation of
a cultural institution, whether or not the items are related to a particular
facility or structure financed under this chapter, including books, works of
art or other items for display or exhibition. 

       (iv) In the case
of a participating institution that is a health care institution, a structure,
within this state or outside this state, that is suitable for the institution’s
purposes, including hospital facilities, inpatient and outpatient clinics,
doctors’ offices, administration buildings, parking, maintenance, storage or
utility facilities, nursing care or assisted living facilities, elderly care
and housing facilities, including retirement communities, and other structures
or facilities, within this state or outside this state, that are related to any
of the structures required or used for the operation of the health care
institution, including other facilities or structures essential or convenient
for the orderly provision of the health care. A project defined in this
sub-subparagraph includes landscaping, site preparation, furniture, equipment
and machinery and other similar items necessary or convenient for the particular
health care facility or structure in the manner for which its use is intended
and also includes any working capital, furnishings, equipment, machinery and
other similar items necessary or convenient for the provision of health care,
whether or not the items are related to a particular facility or structure
financed under this chapter. 

       (v) In the case
of a participating institution that is a nonprofit not otherwise specified in
this paragraph, a structure, within this state or outside this state, that is
suitable for the institution’s purposes, including facilities or structures
essential or convenient for the orderly operations of the nonprofit. A project
defined in this sub-subparagraph includes acquisition of interests in land,
landscaping, site preparation, furniture, equipment and machinery and other
similar items necessary or convenient for the nonprofit, whether or not the
items are related to a particular facility or structure financed under this
chapter, including borrowings needed to alleviate interim cash flow deficits of
the nonprofit. 

       (vi) In the case
of a participating institution, costs to manage, operate or fund a qualified
program or costs to alleviate interim cash flow deficits of the institution. 

       (B) “Project”
also includes any combination of one or more of the projects undertaken jointly
by one or more participating institutions with each other or with other
parties. 

       (C) “Project”
does not include the financing or refinancing of the costs of a facility used
or to be used for sectarian instruction or as a place of religious worship or
any facility which is used or to be used primarily in connection with any part
of the program of a school or department of divinity for any religious
denomination. 

       (L) “Qualified
program” means a financing program, or other activities, of a participating
institution that is eligible for financing through the issuance of revenue
bonds the interest on which is: 

       (A) Excluded from
gross income for federal income tax purposes; or 

       (B) Eligible for
a federal tax credit or subsidy under the Internal Revenue Code. 

       (m) “School for
persons with disabilities” means a public or nonprofit primary, secondary or
post-secondary school within this state or outside this state that serves
students at least 70 percent of whom are persons with disabilities as
determined by one or more appropriate education, rehabilitation, medical or
mental health authorities, is accredited by a recognized accrediting body and
is determined by the authority to be a major resource of benefit to persons
with disabilities. “School for persons with disabilities” does not mean any
school or any institution primarily engaged in religious or sectarian
activities. 

       (2) As used in
subsection (1) of this section in relation to an institution, “within this
state” means that the institution: 

       (a) Maintains its
headquarters, principal office or primary place of business in the State of
Oregon; 

       (b) Owns or
operates one or more facilities in the State of Oregon at which it conducts
operations in furtherance of its institutional mission; or 

       (c) Is owned or
controlled by, or affiliated under common ownership with, an institution
described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection. 

       (3) As used in
subsection (1) of this section in relation to a project, “within this state”
means that: 

       (a) A structure
to be financed will be located in the State of Oregon; or 

       (b) A structure
to be financed will be financed for the primary benefit of an institution
within this state. [1989 c.820 §2; 1991 c.408 §1; 2001 c.270 §1; 2007 c.70 §74;
2007 c.783 §113; 2007 c.785 §1; 2010 c.3 §1; 2011 c.301 §2; 2015 c.548 §1; 2023
c.547 §3] 

   

       Note: Section 1a, chapter 548, Oregon
Laws 2015, provides: 

       Sec. 1a. The removal of the words “or
structures” from the phrase “structure or structures” by the amendments to ORS
289.005 by section 1, chapter 548, Oregon Laws 2015: 

       (1) Does not
prohibit the financing of more than one structure; 

       (2) Does not
limit the effect of, and is subject to construction under, ORS 174.127, under
which the singular may include the plural and the plural may include the
singular; and 

       (3) Conforms the
language to the form and style requirements of the Legislative Assembly. [2015
c.548 §1a; 2016 c.88 §16; 2019 c.13 §40] 

   

       289.010
Findings; purpose. 
(1) The Legislative Assembly finds that by use of the powers and procedures
described in this chapter for the assembling and financing of lands for
housing, educational, cultural or other nonprofit uses and for the construction
and financing of facilities for those uses, financed through the issuance of
revenue bonds secured solely by the properties and rentals thus made available,
the state may be able to increase the availability of decent, affordable
housing, the achievement of higher levels of learning and development of the
intellectual capacities of citizens, the expansion of the authorized services
and resources for the intellectual and artistic enrichment of citizens, the
advancement of nonprofit activities and services and the general well-being of
citizens. 

       (2) It is the
purpose of this chapter to authorize the exercise of powers granted by this
chapter by this state in addition to and not in lieu of any other powers it may
possess. [1989 c.820 §1; 2007 c.71 §89; 2007 c.785 §2; 2015 c.51] 

   

 OREGON FACILITIES
AUTHORITY 

   

       289.100 Oregon
Facilities Authority; members; qualifications; term. (1) There is created a body
politic and corporate to be known as the Oregon Facilities Authority. The
authority is constituted a public instrumentality, and the exercise by the
authority of the powers conferred by this chapter is the performance of an essential
public function. 

       (2) The authority
consists of seven members who must be residents of this state, not more than
four of whom are members of the same political party. The State Treasurer shall
appoint the members, and members serve at the pleasure of the State Treasurer. At
least one of the members must be an individual knowledgeable in the field of
state and municipal finance. At least one of the members must be an individual
knowledgeable in the building construction field. 

       (3) Upon the
expiration of the term of a member, the State Treasurer shall appoint a
successor for a term of four years. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer shall appoint an individual to fill a vacancy for the remainder of
the unexpired term. [1989 c.820 §3; 1991 c.408 §2; 2001 c.261 §1; 2007 c.785 §3] 

   

       289.105
Official action to undertake project. 
The undertaking of any eligible project must be requested by official action of
the participating institution taken at a regular or duly called special meeting
thereof by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the institution’s
board of directors. [1989 c.820 §5] 

   

       289.110 Duties
and powers with respect to projects. 
(1) In addition to any other powers granted by law, the state, acting through
the State Treasurer or a designee of the State Treasurer, may: 

       (a) Enter into
agreements to finance the costs of an eligible project by lending the proceeds
of bonds authorized by this chapter to a participating institution under terms
and with security approved by the state. 

       (b) Lease and
sublease eligible projects to a participating institution subject to subsection
(2) of this section. 

       (c) Pledge or
assign all or part of the revenues of one or more eligible projects owned or to
be acquired by the state to the holders of bonds issued under this chapter or
to a trustee for the holders, and segregate the revenues or provide for payment
of the revenues to the trustee. 

       (d) Mortgage or
otherwise encumber eligible projects in favor of the holders of bonds issued
under this chapter or a trustee for the holders without obligating the state
except with respect to the project. 

       (e) Make
contracts, execute instruments and do what is necessary or desirable to
exercise the powers granted by this chapter, to perform the covenants or duties
of this state or to secure the payment of bonds issued under this chapter.
Contracts that may be made by the state include contracts entered into prior to
construction, acquisition, installation or operation of an eligible project
that authorize, subject to terms and conditions the state finds necessary or
desirable, a lessee or other person to provide for construction, acquisition,
installation, sale or operation of buildings, improvements, land, equipment or
other resources to be included in the project. 

       (f) Enter into
and perform contracts and agreements with participating institutions for the
planning, construction, installation, acquisition, sale, operation, leasing or
financing of facilities, land or other resources of an eligible project,
including a contract or agreement that establishes a body for the supervision
and general management of the facilities. 

       (g) Accept loans
or grants for the planning, construction, installation, acquisition, sale,
operation, leasing or other provision of an eligible project from an authorized
agency of the federal government, and enter into agreements with the agency
respecting the loans or grants. 

       (2) A lease or
sublease entered into under subsection (1)(b) of this section must provide
that: 

       (a) Rents charged
for the use of the project are established and revised as necessary to produce
sufficient revenue to allow for payment of the principal of and interest on
bonds issued under this chapter when due; and 

       (b) The lessee or
sublessee is required to pay: 

       (A) The expenses
of the operation and maintenance of the project including, but not limited to,
adequate insurance on the project and insurance against liability for injury to
persons or property arising from the operation of the project; and 

       (B) The taxes and
special assessments levied upon the leased or subleased premises and payable
during the term of the lease or sublease. 

       (3) During the
term of a lease or sublease entered into under subsection (1)(b) of this
section, ad valorem taxes must be imposed on the real and personal property of
the eligible project in the same manner as the taxes would be imposed if the
lessee or sublessee were the owner of the eligible project. [1989 c.820 §6;
2005 c.22 §212; 2007 c.785 §4; 2010 c.3 §2] 

   

       289.115
Functions. In
carrying out its duties under this chapter, the Oregon Facilities Authority,
acting for and in behalf of the state as its duly authorized agency, may: 

       (1) Acquire,
construct and hold in whole or in part any lands, buildings, easements, water
and air rights, improvements to lands and buildings and capital equipment to be
located permanently or used exclusively on such lands or in such buildings,
which are considered necessary in connection with an eligible project to be
situated within this state, and construct, reconstruct, improve, better and
extend such projects, and enter into contracts therefor; and 

       (2) Sell and
convey all properties acquired in connection with eligible projects, including
without limitation the sale and conveyance thereof subject to any mortgage and
the sale and conveyance thereof under an option granted to the lessee of the
eligible project, for such price, and at such time as the state may determine.
However, no sale or conveyance of such properties shall ever be made in such
manner as to impair the rights of interests of the holder, or holders, or any
bonds issued under the authority of this chapter. [1989 c.820 §7; 1991 c.408 §3] 

   

       289.120
Limitation on manner of operating project and expenditure of funds. Except as provided in ORS 289.115
(2), the state shall not have power to operate any eligible project as a
business or in any manner whatsoever. Nothing in this chapter authorizes the
state to expend any funds on any eligible project, other than the revenues of
such projects, or the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under this chapter, or
other funds granted to the state for the purposes of an eligible project. [1989
c.820 §8] 

   

       289.125 Rules;
fees. (1) The
Oregon Facilities Authority shall adopt by rule standards by which to determine
the eligibility of projects for bond financing pursuant to this chapter. In
determining the standards, the authority shall consider all relevant data. The
standards of the authority must provide that projects are approved in
accordance with criteria reflecting the benefits to the state. Criteria
include, but need not be limited to: 

       (a) Supporting
projects that increase the number of decent, affordable housing units in this
state; 

       (b) Expanding the
educational resources in this state; or 

       (c) Expanding the
cultural resources in this state. 

       (2) Upon
determining a project as eligible, the authority shall forward the application
to the State Treasurer, who shall determine whether to issue the revenue bonds. 

       (3) The authority
may treat as a single eligible project for bonding purposes any number of
projects determined to be eligible projects. 

       (4) The authority
shall collect the fees set forth in subsection (5) of this section from an
applicant that seeks to have a project declared eligible for financing. The fee
identified in subsection (5)(a) of this section may be collected even though
the project has not been determined to be eligible for financing. 

       (5) The fees
described in subsection (4) of this section are: 

       (a) An
application fee determined by the Oregon Facilities Authority by rule. 

       (b) A closing fee
not to exceed one-half of one percent of the total bond issue for the project,
as determined by the authority. 

       (6) The authority
shall deposit fees received under subsection (5) of this section in the Oregon
Facilities Authority Account established under ORS 289.130. [1989 c.820 §4;
1991 c.408 §4; 2007 c.785 §5] 

   

       289.130 Oregon
Facilities Authority Account. 
The Oregon Facilities Authority Account is created separate and distinct from
the General Fund. The account is an investment account for purposes of ORS
293.701 to 293.857. Interest on the account shall be credited to and deposited
in the account. The account is continuously appropriated to the Oregon
Facilities Authority and may be used to meet administrative expenses of the
authority. [1989 c.820 §4a; 1991 c.408 §5; 2001 c.261 §2] 

   

 BONDS 

   

       289.200
Issuance of revenue bonds; role of State Treasurer; role of Oregon Facilities
Authority; fees. 
(1) If the State Treasurer determines that revenue bonds should be issued: 

       (a) The State
Treasurer may authorize and issue in the name of the State of Oregon revenue
bonds secured by revenues from eligible projects to finance or refinance in
whole or part the cost of acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction,
installations improvement, betterment, extension, management, operation or
funding of projects. The bonds shall be identified by project and issued in the
manner prescribed by ORS chapter 286A. 

       (b) The State
Treasurer shall designate the trustee, financial advisor and bond counsel, if
any, and enter into appropriate agreements with each to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. An agreement with bond counsel designated by the
State Treasurer under this section is subject to the provisions related to
services provided by bond counsel under ORS 286A.130. The powers conferred on a
related agency under ORS chapter 286A do not apply to the Oregon Facilities
Authority with respect to the designation of trustee, financial advisor and
bond counsel. 

       (2) Any trustee
designated by the State Treasurer to carry out all or part of the powers
specified in ORS 289.110 must agree to furnish financial statements and audit
reports for each bond issue. 

       (3) The State
Treasurer is the applicable elected representative for purposes of approving
the issuance of revenue bonds under this chapter to the extent approval is
required under section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer shall collect data from the authority regarding the amount and nature
of bonded indebtedness in Oregon health care institutions financed through the
authority. [1989 c.820 §9; 1991 c.408 §6; 1995 c.727 §14; 2001 c.536 §8; 2007
c.783 §114; 2010 c.3 §3] 

   

       289.205
Expenses of State Treasurer. 
Reasonable administrative expenses of the State Treasurer shall be charged
against bond proceeds or project revenues. [1989 c.820 §10; 2007 c.783 §115] 

   

       289.210
Refunding bonds. 
The State Treasurer shall have the power, whenever the treasurer considers
refunding expedient, to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether
the bonds to be refunded have or have not matured. The refunding bonds may be
exchanged for bonds to be refunded and the proceeds applied to the purchase,
redemption or payment of such bonds. [1989 c.820 §11] 

   

       289.215
Validity of bonds not affected by other matters regarding project. The validity of bonds issued under
this chapter is not dependent on or affected by the validity or regularity of
any proceeding relating to the acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction, installation, improvement, betterment, extension, management,
operation or funding of the project for which the bonds are issued. The
official action authorizing such bonds may provide that the bonds shall contain
a recital that they are issued pursuant to this chapter and such recital shall
be conclusive evidence of their validity and of the regularity of their
issuance. [1989 c.820 §12; 2010 c.3 §4] 

   

       289.220
Covenants regarding bond issuance. 
The official action authorizing the issuance of bonds under this chapter to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, the acquisition, purchase,
construction, reconstruction, installation, improvement, betterment, extension,
management, operation or funding of a project may contain covenants that limit
the exercises of powers conferred by this chapter in the following respects and
in other respects as the state, acting through the State Treasurer, or the
designee of the treasurer may decide: 

       (1) The rents to
be charged for the use of properties acquired, purchased, constructed,
reconstructed, installed, improved, bettered, extended, managed, operated or
funded under the authority of this chapter; 

       (2) The use and
disposition of the revenues of projects; 

       (3) The creation
and maintenance of sinking funds and the regulation, use and disposition
thereof; 

       (4) The creation
and maintenance of funds to provide for maintaining the eligible project and
replacement of properties depreciated, damaged, destroyed or condemned; 

       (5) The purpose
or purposes to which the proceeds of sale of bonds may be applied and the use
and disposition of such proceeds; 

       (6) The nature of
mortgages or other encumbrances on the eligible project made in favor of the
holder or holders of such bonds or a trustee therefor; 

       (7) The events of
default and the rights and liabilities arising thereon and the terms and
conditions upon which the holders of any bonds may bring any suit or action on
such bonds or on any coupons appurtenant thereto; 

       (8) The issuance
of other or additional bonds or instruments payable from or constituting a
charge against the revenue of the eligible project; 

       (9) The insurance
to be carried upon the eligible project and the use and disposition of
insurance moneys; 

       (10) The keeping
of books of account and the inspection and audit thereof; 

       (11) The terms
and conditions upon which any or all of the bonds shall become or may be
declared due before maturity and the terms and conditions upon which such
declaration and its consequences may be waived; 

       (12) The rights,
liabilities, powers and duties arising upon the breach by the municipality or
redevelopment agency of any covenants, conditions or obligations; 

       (13) The
appointing of and vesting in a trustee or trustees of the right to enforce any
covenants made to secure or to pay the bonds, the powers and duties of such
trustee or trustees and the limitation of their liabilities; 

       (14) The terms
and conditions upon which the holder or holders of the bonds, or the holders of
any proportion or percentage of them, may enforce any covenants made under this
chapter; 

       (15) A procedure
by which the terms of any official action authorizing bonds or of any other
contract with bondholders, including but not limited to an indenture of trust
or similar instrument, may be amended or abrogated, and the amount of bonds the
holders of which may consent thereto, and the manner in which such consent may
be given; and 

       (16) The
subordination of the security of any bonds issued under this chapter and the
payment of principal and interest thereof, to the extent considered feasible
and desirable by the state, to other bonds or obligations of the state issued
to finance the eligible project or that may be outstanding when the bonds thus
subordinated are issued and delivered. [1989 c.820 §13; 2010 c.3 §5] 

   

       289.225
Sources of bond repayment restricted; recitations in bonds. (1) Revenue bonds issued under
this chapter shall not: 

       (a) Be payable
from nor charged upon any funds other than the revenue pledged to the payment
thereof, nor shall the state be subject to any liability thereon. No holder or
holders of such bonds shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the
taxing power of the state to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon, nor to
enforce payment thereof against any property of the state except those projects
or portions thereof, mortgaged or otherwise encumbered under the provisions and
for the purposes of this chapter. 

       (b) Constitute a
charge, lien or encumbrance, legal or equitable, upon any property of the
state, except those eligible projects, or portions thereof, mortgaged or
otherwise encumbered, under the provisions and for the purposes of this
chapter. 

       (2) Each bond
issued under this chapter shall recite in substance that the bond, including
interest thereon, is payable solely from the revenue pledged to the payment
thereof. No such bond shall constitute a debt of the state or a lending of the
credit of the state within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory
limitation. However, nothing in this chapter is intended to impair the rights
of holders of bonds to enforce covenants made for the security thereof as
provided in ORS 289.230. [1989 c.820 §14] 

   

       289.230
Actions by bondholders to enforce rights. Subject to any contractual limitation binding upon
the holders of any issue of revenue bonds, or a trustee therefor, including but
not limited to the restriction of the exercise of any remedy to a specified
proportion or percentage of such holders, any holder of bonds, or any trustee
therefor, for the equal benefit and protection of all bondholders similarly
situated, may: 

       (1) By action or
proceeding for legal or equitable remedies, enforce their rights against the
state and any of its officers, agents and employees, and may require and compel
the state or any such officers, agents or employees to perform and carry out
its and their duties and obligations under this chapter and its and their
covenants and agreements with bondholders; 

       (2) By action
require the state to account as if it was the trustee of an express trust; 

       (3) By action
enjoin any acts or things which may be unlawful or in violation of the right of
the bondholders; 

       (4) Bring action
upon the bonds; 

       (5) Foreclose any
mortgage or lien given under the authority of this chapter and cause the
property standing as security to be sold under any proceedings permitted by law
or equity; and 

       (6) Exercise any
right or remedy conferred by this chapter without exhausting and without regard
to any other right or remedy conferred by this chapter or any other law of this
state, none of which rights and remedies is intended to be exclusive of any other,
and each is cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy. [1989
c.820 §15] 

   

       289.235 Loan
of bond proceeds for projects; state not required to have ownership or
leasehold interest. 
The state, acting through the State Treasurer and the Oregon Facilities
Authority, or either of them, may lend the proceeds of the bonds authorized by
this chapter for eligible projects without the necessity of the state having
any ownership or leasehold interest in the eligible projects. Loans made
pursuant to this section shall be secured to the extent considered necessary or
desirable by the State Treasurer and the authority to assure repayment of the
bonds. [1989 c.820 §16; 1991 c.408 §7] 

   

       289.240 Report
of bonding activities; rules. 
(1) Within 90 days following the closing of each fiscal year, the Oregon
Facilities Authority shall report on its operations to the Governor, State
Treasurer and the Legislative Assembly. The report shall include a summary of
the authority’s activities relating to bonds issued under this section. 

       (2) In accordance
with any applicable provision of ORS chapter 183, the authority may adopt such
rules as it considers necessary to carry out its duties, functions and powers
under this chapter. [1989 c.820 §18] 

   

       289.250
Limitation on income tax exemption for interest on revenue bonds. (1) As used in this section, “within
the State of Oregon” has the meaning given the term “within this state” in ORS
289.005. 

       (2) Interest on
revenue bonds issued by the State Treasurer under the authority of this chapter
is exempt from personal income tax under ORS chapter 316 only to the extent
that the structure financed with the proceeds of the revenue bonds is located
within the State of Oregon. [2015 c.548 §3] 

   

 CHAPTER
290 [Reserved for expansion] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
