 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
404 — Search and Rescue 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 SEARCH AND RESCUE 

   

 MILITARY AFFAIRS; EMERGENCY
SERVICES 

   

 SEARCH AND RESCUE GENERALLY 

   

 404.095     “Search and rescue” not
to include urban search and rescue 

   

 404.100     Search and Rescue
Coordinator; appointment; duties 

   

 404.105     Program for air search
and rescue 

   

 404.110     Search and rescue
activities; responsibilities of sheriff; delegation of sheriff’s duties 

   

 404.115     Restriction of access
to search and rescue area 

   

 404.120     County sheriff to adopt
search and rescue plan; contents; annual review 

   

 404.125     Critique of search and
rescue incident; filing amended search and rescue plan with Oregon Department
of Emergency Management 

   

 404.130     Search and rescue
incident number 

   

 404.135     Investigative subpoena 

   

 QUALIFIED SEARCH AND RESCUE
VOLUNTEERS 

   

 (Definitions) 

   

 404.200     Definitions for ORS
404.200 to 404.215 

   

 (Qualification) 

   

 404.205     Application 

   

 (Indemnification) 

   

 404.210     Coverage under Oregon
Tort Claims Act 

   

 (Workers’ Compensation Benefits) 

   

 404.215     Workers’ compensation
coverage 

   

 (Leave of Absence) 

   

 404.250     Leave of absence from
employment for search and rescue volunteer 

   

 PRIVATE SEARCH PARTIES 

   

 404.255     Definitions 

   

 404.257     Required disclosures by
private search parties 

   

 404.260     Required notification
to county sheriff 

   

 404.265     Imposition of civil
penalties by county 

   

 REIMBURSEMENT BY BENEFITED PERSONS 

   

 404.270     Reimbursement of public
body for search and rescue by benefited persons; amount; exceptions 

   

 EQUIPMENT AND SIGNALING DEVICES 

   

 404.300     Definitions for ORS
404.300 to 404.315 

   

 404.305     Assumption of risk of
wilderness travel or mountain climbing; use and effect of electronic signaling
devices 

   

 404.310     Required equipment when
guiding children above timberline 

   

 404.315     Exemption from
liability for electronic signaling device; exceptions 

   

 404.325     Posting of emergency
contact telephone number 

   

 COMPANION ANIMALS 

   

 404.350     Rescue of companion
animal 

   

 OUTDOOR RECREATION SEARCH AND
RESCUE CARDS 

   

 404.400     Agreement for outdoor
recreation search and rescue card program 

   

 404.410     Requirements of
program; search and rescue grants; reporting 

   

 SEARCH AND RESCUE GENERALLY 

   

       404.095 “Search
and rescue” not to include urban search and rescue. As used in ORS 404.095 to 404.270,
“search and rescue” does not include urban search and rescue, as defined in ORS
476.615. [2023 c.305 §4] 

   

       404.100 Search
and Rescue Coordinator; appointment; duties. The Director of the Oregon Department of Emergency
Management shall appoint a Search and Rescue Coordinator to: 

       (1) Coordinate
the search and rescue function of the Oregon Department of Emergency
Management; 

       (2) Coordinate
the activities of state and federal agencies involved in search and rescue; 

       (3) Establish
liaison with the Oregon State Sheriffs’ Association and other public and
private organizations and agencies involved in search and rescue; 

       (4) Provide
on-scene search and rescue coordination when requested by an authorized person; 

       (5) Coordinate
and process requests for the use of volunteers and equipment; 

       (6) Assist in
developing training and outdoor education programs; 

       (7) Gather
statistics in search and rescue operations; and 

       (8) Gather and
disseminate resource information of personnel, equipment and materials
available for search and rescue. [Formerly 401.550; 2021 c.539 §88b] 

   

       404.105
Program for air search and rescue. 
The Oregon Department of Emergency Management shall establish and maintain a
program for the air search and rescue of lost aircraft and persons and for the
air support of other emergency situations. The program established under this
section may include, but is not limited to, the following: 

       (1) The formation
of a volunteer air search and rescue organization and provision of appropriate
training to this organization. 

       (2) Directing,
coordinating and performing air activities in conjunction with air search and
rescue and other emergency situations. 

       (3) Entering into
agreements with private persons, volunteer organizations, and federal, state
and local agencies for air search and rescue and other emergency activities. 

       (4) Such other
related activities as may be deemed necessary and appropriate by the Director
of the Oregon Department of Emergency Management. [Formerly 401.555; 2021 c.539
§88c] 

   

       404.110 Search
and rescue activities; responsibilities of sheriff; delegation of sheriff’s
duties. (1) The
sheriff of each county has the responsibility for search and rescue activities
within the county. The duty of a sheriff under this subsection may be delegated
to a deputy or other qualified person. 

       (2) If the
sheriff does not accept the responsibility for search and rescue activities,
the chief executive of the county shall direct the county emergency program
manager appointed under ORS 401.305 to perform the duties and responsibilities
required under ORS 404.095 to 404.270. 

       (3) A sheriff or
other person performing the duties of the sheriff under this section shall
notify the Oregon Department of Emergency Management of each search and rescue
in the county and shall request the assignment of incident numbers for each
search and rescue. 

       (4) When search
and rescue activities occur in a multicounty area: 

       (a) The sheriff
of one county, or the other person performing the duties of the sheriff of one
of the counties under this section, shall take charge, or the counties shall
form a unified command, as outlined in the National Incident Management System
Incident Command System established by Homeland Security Presidential Directive
5 of February 28, 2003; or 

       (b) If the
appropriate sheriff or other person does not assume command as described in
paragraph (a) of this subsection, the sheriff who received the initial call
shall take charge of the multicounty search and rescue. [Formerly 401.560; 2021
c.539 §88d] 

   

       404.115
Restriction of access to search and rescue area. The sheriff of each county, the
person performing the sheriff’s duties under ORS 404.110 or duly assigned
military or state police personnel may restrict access to a specific search and
rescue area. No unauthorized person shall then enter into a restricted area or
interfere with a search and rescue. Provision shall be made for reasonable
access by members of the media in the performance of newsgathering and
reporting. Access shall be restricted for a reasonable period of time necessary
to accomplish the search and rescue. [Formerly 401.570] 

   

       404.120 County
sheriff to adopt search and rescue plan; contents; annual review. (1) The sheriff of each county
shall adopt a search and rescue plan for the county. The search and rescue plan
shall set forth search and rescue policies, including policies for
implementation of multicounty search and rescue activities, for the county that
comply with the relevant provisions of the National Incident Management System
Incident Command System established by Homeland Security Presidential Directive
5 of February 28, 2003, and shall describe procedures for implementing those
policies. A county search and rescue plan shall list and describe materials,
mutual aid agreements, equipment and personnel available within the county for
search and rescue incidents. The plan shall also include: 

       (a) A detailed
description of activities and circumstances that constitute search and rescue
in the county. 

       (b)
Identification of volunteer organizations available to the county for use for
search and rescue. 

       (c) Procedures
for contacting and requesting assistance from volunteer organizations during
search and rescue activities. 

       (d) Procedures
for contacting and requesting available assistance from other agencies and
groups. 

       (e) Minimum
standards for individuals whose technical or professional skills may be
required for search and rescue. 

       (2) A county search
and rescue plan adopted under this section shall require a person in charge of
a search and rescue to complete a fact sheet for the incident. The fact sheet
shall contain the incident number assigned under ORS 404.130 for search and
rescue and such other information required under the search and rescue plan of
the county. 

       (3) The sheriff
of each county shall review and, if necessary or desirable, revise the search
and rescue plan annually. After the initial adoption of a search and rescue
plan under this section and after each annual review or revision of the plan,
the sheriff shall submit the plan to the Search and Rescue Coordinator
appointed under ORS 404.100. 

       (4) The Oregon
Department of Emergency Management, after consultation with the Oregon State
Sheriffs’ Association, may establish guidelines for county search and rescue
plans. 

       (5) The
department shall annually publish and distribute to the sheriff of each county
a search and rescue resource inventory, which shall include materials,
equipment and personnel available from counties, agencies and the State of
Oregon for use in search and rescue incidents. [Formerly 401.573; 2021 c.539 §88e] 

   

       404.125
Critique of search and rescue incident; filing amended search and rescue plan
with Oregon Department of Emergency Management. (1) After a search and rescue, the
sheriff of the county in which the search and rescue took place shall conduct a
critique of the incident: 

       (a) If, in the
opinion of the sheriff, the critique would be useful; or 

       (b) Upon request
from an individual directly involved in the incident. 

       (2) As part of
the critique, the sheriff shall examine the search and rescue report and may
receive testimony and information from persons involved in the incident. 

       (3) When a
critique of a search and rescue is conducted under this section, the sheriff
shall prepare findings of fact concerning the search and rescue, including the
investigatory component, and may prepare recommendations for the conduct of
future incidents or propose amendments to the search and rescue plan under
which the search and rescue was conducted. 

       (4) If amendments
to the search and rescue plan are proposed and adopted, the sheriff shall file
the amended search and rescue plan with the Oregon Department of Emergency
Management. 

       (5) The
department shall, in consultation with the Oregon State Sheriffs’ Association,
develop a standardized critique form to be used in the search and rescue
critiques performed by a sheriff under this section. [Formerly 401.576; 2021
c.539 §88f] 

   

       404.130 Search
and rescue incident number. 
(1) An incident number shall be assigned to each search and rescue reported
under ORS 404.110. 

       (2) The incident
number assigned shall be referenced for: 

       (a) The payment
of workers’ compensation benefits for those persons participating in search and
rescue activities; and 

       (b) The dispatch
and request for state, federal and cooperative assistance resources. [Formerly
401.580] 

   

       404.135
Investigative subpoena. 
(1) If a peace officer has probable cause to believe that an individual is
missing and in danger, the officer may request that the Attorney General, a
district attorney or a city or county attorney execute in writing and cause to
be served, in the manner provided by ORCP 7, an investigative subpoena as
described in this section. 

       (2)(a) If a
person is unlikely to comply with an investigative subpoena issued under
subsection (1) of this section in a timely manner or has already refused to
comply with such a subpoena, a peace officer may petition the circuit court in
and for the county in which the investigation is pending for a court order as
described in this section. 

       (b) The court may
hold a hearing on the petition upon request or upon its own motion. If the
petitioner demonstrates that the person is unlikely to comply or has refused to
comply with an investigative subpoena, the court may issue the order. 

       (c) Upon issuance
of a court order under this subsection, the petitioner shall cause the order to
be served in the manner described in ORCP 7. 

       (3) An
investigative subpoena or court order issued under this section must include
notice of the provisions of subsections (5) and (6) of this section. 

       (4) An
investigative subpoena or court order issued under this section may be directed
toward any person that is believed, by the Attorney General, the district
attorney, the city or county attorney or the circuit court judge, to have
information, documents or physical evidence that may be useful in locating the
missing individual. 

       (5) Subject to
subsection (6) of this section, the investigative subpoena or court order may
require the person, under oath or otherwise, to appear and testify, to answer
written interrogatories or to produce documents or physical evidence for
examination, at a reasonable time and place as may be stated in the subpoena or
court order, to further the investigation into the whereabouts of the missing
individual. 

       (6) A person that
receives a subpoena or court order issued under this section may apply to the
circuit court in and for the county in which the investigation is pending for a
protective order, modification or other relief from the subpoena or court order.
An application under this subsection may also assert the person’s
constitutional right against self-incrimination or any other right. 

       (7) Information,
documents or physical evidence obtained pursuant to this section may not be
used for criminal investigation or prosecution of the missing individual. 

       (8) This section
does not alter the status of information, documents or physical evidence
disclosed. Notwithstanding disclosure for the purpose of locating a missing
individual, confidential information, documents or physical evidence retain
their confidential status. [Formerly 401.582; 2023 c.333 §1] 

   

 QUALIFIED SEARCH AND
RESCUE VOLUNTEERS 

   

 (Definitions) 

   

       404.200
Definitions for ORS 404.200 to 404.215. As used in ORS 404.200 to 404.215: 

       (1) “Qualified
search and rescue volunteer” means: 

       (a) A person who
is registered with the Oregon Department of Emergency Management to conduct
search and rescue activities; 

       (b) A person who
is registered with a sheriff to conduct search and rescue activities; 

       (c) A member of a
designated search and rescue organization that is registered with a sheriff or
the department; or 

       (d) A person who
is acknowledged in writing as a qualified search and rescue volunteer by the
department, or by a sheriff or the designee of a sheriff, at the scene of a
search or rescue. 

       (2) “Search and
rescue activities” means: 

       (a) Searching
for, rescuing or recovering any person who is missing, injured or deceased; and 

       (b) Training to
perform the activities described in paragraph (a) of this subsection that is
either conducted or approved by a public body. [2009 c.718 §11; 2011 c.403 §1;
2021 c.539 §88g] 

   

 (Qualification) 

   

       404.205
Application. ORS
404.200 to 404.215 apply only to a qualified search and rescue volunteer who is
performing search and rescue activities without compensation other than
reimbursement for food, lodging, costs of transportation and other expenses. [2009
c.718 §12] 

   

 (Indemnification) 

   

       404.210
Coverage under Oregon Tort Claims Act. 
A qualified search and rescue volunteer is an agent of a county under ORS
30.260 to 30.300 for the purpose of acts and omissions of the volunteer that
are within the course and scope of the volunteer’s duties and that occur while
the volunteer is performing search and rescue activities under the direction of
the sheriff of the county or the designee of the sheriff, and the county shall
defend, save harmless and indemnify the volunteer for any tort claim arising
out of an alleged act or omission occurring in the performance of those
activities as required by ORS 30.285. [2009 c.718 §13] 

   

 (Workers’ Compensation
Benefits) 

   

       404.215
Workers’ compensation coverage. 
(1) A county is conclusively deemed to have filed an election under ORS 656.031
to provide workers’ compensation coverage for qualified search and rescue
volunteers who: 

       (a) Perform
search and rescue activities under the direction of the sheriff of the county
or the designee of the sheriff; or 

       (b) Are sent by
the sheriff of the county or the designee of the sheriff to perform search and
rescue activities under the direction of the sheriff of another county or the
designee of the sheriff of the other county. 

       (2) When a
qualified search and rescue volunteer offers to perform search and rescue
activities in a county in which the volunteer is not registered and the
volunteer was not sent to the county by the sheriff, or the designee of the
sheriff, of a county in which the volunteer is registered, the county in which
the volunteer performs search and rescue activities is conclusively deemed to
have filed an election under ORS 656.031 to provide workers’ compensation
coverage for the volunteer if the sheriff or the designee of the sheriff
acknowledges the volunteer’s qualifications at the scene. 

       (3) An insurer or
self-insured employer may fix assumed wage rates for qualified search and
rescue volunteers, which may be used only for purposes of computations under
ORS chapter 656, and shall require the regular payment of premiums or
assessments based on the hours of service by qualified search and rescue
volunteers. A self-insured employer shall submit the assumed wage rates to the
Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services. If the director
finds that the rates are unreasonable, the director may fix appropriate rates
to be used for purposes of this section. 

       (4) A county that
is a self-insured employer under ORS chapter 656 may apply to an insurer for
workers’ compensation coverage for qualified search and rescue volunteers only,
while continuing to self-insure the other subject workers of the county. If an
insurer decides not to provide workers’ compensation coverage for qualified
search and rescue volunteers of the county, coverage shall be provided through
the assigned risk pool. 

       (5) Qualified
search and rescue volunteers and their beneficiaries are not eligible for
workers’ compensation benefits under this section if the volunteer is
performing search and rescue activities during an emergency and is provided
with workers’ compensation coverage under ORS 401.368. [2009 c.718 §14; 2011
c.403 §2] 

   

 (Leave of Absence) 

   

       404.250 Leave
of absence from employment for search and rescue volunteer. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Employee”
means an individual, other than a copartner of the employer or an independent
contractor, who renders personal services in this state to an employer that
pays or agrees to pay wages or other compensation to the individual for those
services. 

       (b) “Employer”
means a person who employs one or more employees in this state. “Employer”
includes the State of Oregon or a county, city, district, authority, public
corporation or entity and any of their instrumentalities organized and existing
under law or charter, but does not include the federal government. 

       (2) Upon request
of an employee who is a search and rescue volunteer accepted to participate in
search and rescue activities by the sheriff, an employer may grant a leave of
absence to the employee until release from the search and rescue activities
permits the employee to resume the duties of employment. 

       (3) The regular
employment position of an employee on leave of absence under this section is
considered vacant only for the period of the leave of absence. The employee is
not subject to removal or discharge from the position as a consequence of the
leave of absence. 

       (4) Upon the
termination of a leave of absence under this section, the employer shall
restore the employee to the employee’s position or an equivalent position
without loss of seniority, vacation credits, sick leave credits, service
credits under a pension plan or any other employee benefit or right that had
been earned at the time of the leave of absence. 

       (5) An employer
is not required to pay wages or other monetary compensation to an employee
during a leave of absence under this section. [Formerly 401.584] 

   

 PRIVATE SEARCH PARTIES 

   

       404.255
Definitions. As
used in ORS 404.255 to 404.265: 

       (1) “Immediate
family” has the meaning given that term in ORS 163.730. 

       (2) “Private
search party” means any person that: 

       (a) Participates
or offers to participate in an effort to locate a missing person; 

       (b) Intends to
charge a fee, request donations or profit from a production in connection with
such efforts; 

       (c) Is not acting
as an agent of, at the request of, or pursuant to an agreement with a public
body or federal governmental body; and 

       (d) Is not a
qualified search and rescue volunteer as defined in ORS 404.200. 

       (3) “Production”
means a photograph, motion picture, video recording or audio recording. 

       (4) “Public body”
has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109. [2025 c.200 §2] 

   

       404.257
Required disclosures by private search parties. (1) A private search party, before
engaging in efforts to locate a missing person, shall disclose to an immediate
family member of the missing person, verbally and in writing: 

       (a) That the
private search party is not acting in connection with a governmental body; and 

       (b) The nature of
the private search party’s involvement in the effort to locate the missing
person. 

       (2) A private
search party shall notify an immediate family member of the missing person,
verbally and in writing, if the private search party: 

       (a) Intends to
charge a fee for the private search party’s services or assistance; 

       (b) Intends to
request donations for the private search party’s services or assistance; or 

       (c) Intends to
derive profit from any production made in connection with the private search
party’s services or assistance. [2025 c.200 §3] 

   

       404.260
Required notification to county sheriff. (1) Except as provided in subsection (4) of this
section, at least 72 hours before engaging in efforts to locate a missing
person, a private search party shall notify the sheriff of the county in which
the efforts will take place. 

       (2) A
notification under this section must include the following information: 

       (a) The name,
residence address and contact information for the private search party; 

       (b) The date of
birth of the private search party; 

       (c) Whether the
private search party holds certifications related to search and rescue,
emergency operations or medicine; 

       (d) The identity
of the missing person; 

       (e) Whether the
private search party intends to use dogs in the search effort; 

       (f) The
anticipated time frame for the search efforts; and 

       (g) Which of the
notifications described in ORS 404.257 (2) the private search party is required
to make, if any, and whether the private search party has made such
notifications. 

       (3) Notifications
to sheriffs under this section must be made by telephone, in writing or through
any Internet-based portal created for the purpose of making such notifications. 

       (4) The law
enforcement agency of any public body may authorize private search parties to
begin search efforts before the 72-hour period described in subsection (1) of
this section has elapsed. [2025 c.200 §4] 

   

       404.265
Imposition of civil penalties by county. A county may adopt an ordinance or resolution that
imposes civil penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of ORS
404.255 to 404.265. [2025 c.200 §5] 

   

 REIMBURSEMENT BY
BENEFITED PERSONS 

   

       404.270
Reimbursement of public body for search and rescue by benefited persons;
amount; exceptions. 
(1) A public body that has authority to conduct search and rescue activities
may collect an amount specified in this section as reimbursement for the cost
of search and rescue activities when the public body conducts search and rescue
activities for the benefit of hikers, climbers, hunters and other users of
wilderness areas or unpopulated forested or mountainous recreational areas in
this state. 

       (2) The public
body may collect moneys as authorized by this section from each person for
whose benefit search and rescue activities are conducted. The public body may
not collect more than $500 from an individual under this section and may not
collect more than the actual cost of the search and rescue activities from all
of the individuals for whose benefit the activities are conducted. 

       (3) A public body
may obtain reimbursement under this section only when: 

       (a) Reasonable
care was not exercised by the individuals for whose benefit the search and
rescue activities are conducted; or 

       (b) Applicable
laws were violated by such individuals. 

       (4) Any
individual who is charged a fee for reimbursement under this section may appeal
the charge or the amount of the fee to the public body that charged the fee. 

       (5) For the
purposes of subsection (3) of this section, evidence of reasonable care
includes: 

       (a) The
individuals possessed experience and used equipment that was appropriate for
the known conditions of weather and terrain. 

       (b) The
individuals used or attempted to use locating devices or cellular telephones
when appropriate. 

       (c) The
individuals notified responsible persons or organizations of the expected time
of departure and the expected time of return and the planned location or route
of activity. 

       (d) The
individuals had maps and orienteering equipment and used trails or other routes
that were appropriate for the conditions. 

       (6) As used in
this section, “public body” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109. [Formerly
401.590] 

   

 EQUIPMENT AND SIGNALING
DEVICES 

   

       404.300
Definitions for ORS 404.300 to 404.315. As used in ORS 404.300 to 404.315: 

       (1) “Electronic
signaling device” includes, but is not limited to, a system consisting of an
instrument which emits a radio signal, designed to be carried on the person, an
instrument for locating the source of such signal, designed to be utilized by
searchers and such instruments as may be employed for testing and maintaining
the same. 

       (2) “Inherent
risks of wilderness travel and mountain climbing” includes, but is not limited
to, those dangers or conditions, the risk of which is an integral part of these
activities, such as becoming lost, incapacitated or for some other reason being
unable to return safely without outside assistance. “Inherent risks” include
the activities associated with search and rescue, due to the unpredictable
circumstances under which search and rescue operations are conducted. 

       (3) “Wilderness
travel” includes, but is not limited to, travel in areas not served by roads
suitable for ordinary motor vehicles, whether or not such areas have been
officially designated as wilderness areas. [Formerly 401.605] 

   

       404.305
Assumption of risk of wilderness travel or mountain climbing; use and effect of
electronic signaling devices. 
(1) In accordance with ORS 31.600 and notwithstanding ORS 31.620 (2), an
individual who engages in wilderness travel or mountain climbing accepts and
assumes the inherent risks of wilderness travel or mountain climbing. 

       (2) The
Legislative Assembly recognizes that the use of electronic signaling devices
can aid in locating wilderness travelers or mountain climbers who require
search and rescue, but that the use of such devices may be required in
unpredictable circumstances which may not result in successful function of such
devices. [Formerly 401.615] 

   

       404.310
Required equipment when guiding children above timberline. A person who guides for
compensation an organized group that includes children under 18 years of age on
any mountain above the timberline must carry an altimeter, a contour map of the
area and a compass. [Formerly 401.625] 

   

       404.315
Exemption from liability for electronic signaling device; exceptions. A person may not maintain an
action against the manufacturer, distributor or supplier of an electronic
signaling device for any loss or damage incurred during wilderness travel or
mountain climbing, based on a claim that the device failed to function successfully
unless the person shows that the failure resulted from: 

       (1) Willful or
wanton misconduct of the defendant; or 

       (2) The defendant’s
distributing or supplying the device having actual knowledge that the device is
unsuitable for the purpose. [Formerly 401.627] 

   

       404.325
Posting of emergency contact telephone number. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Electronic
signaling device” includes, but is not limited to: 

       (A) Electronic
signaling devices, as defined in ORS 404.300; 

       (B) Emergency
locator transmitters; 

       (C) Emergency
Position Indicator Radio Beacon devices; and 

       (D) Wilderness
personal locator beacons. 

       (b)(A) “Facility”
includes: 

       (i) Commercial
and industrial facilities; 

       (ii) Aircraft
hangars, whether used for private, commercial or industrial purposes; and 

       (iii) Other
facilities in which electronic signaling devices or equipment containing
electronic signaling devices are sold, rented, serviced or repaired. 

       (B) “Facility”
does not include a dwelling used only as a private residence. 

       (c) “Public
safety answering point” has the meaning given that term in ORS 403.105. 

       (d) “9-1-1
service area” has the meaning given that term in ORS 403.105. 

       (2) The owner or
operator of a facility in which an electronic signaling device is located shall
conspicuously post an emergency contact telephone number of an individual who
is able to assist emergency response personnel with locating and silencing the device. 

       (3) Subsection
(2) of this section does not apply to the owner or operator of a facility for
which the owner or operator has provided a contact number to the public safety
answering point that is responsible for the 9-1-1 service area in which the
facility is located. [2009 c.102 §1] 

   

 COMPANION ANIMALS 

   

       404.350 Rescue
of companion animal. 
(1) A person engaged in search and rescue operations may make every practicable
attempt under the circumstances to rescue a companion animal. 

       (2) This section
does not impose liability on or expand liability of a person engaged in search
and rescue operations. [Formerly 401.273] 

   

 OUTDOOR RECREATION
SEARCH AND RESCUE CARDS 

   

       404.400
Agreement for outdoor recreation search and rescue card program. (1) The Oregon Department of
Emergency Management may enter into an agreement with a nonprofit organization
representing sheriffs in the State of Oregon under which the organization is
authorized to establish and administer a program to produce and sell outdoor
recreation search and rescue cards via authorized sellers. 

       (2) The purpose
of the card program is to allow members of the public to make voluntary
contributions to search and rescue efforts in Oregon by purchasing cards and
making voluntary donations. 

       (3) An agreement
under this section must meet the requirements set forth in ORS 404.410. 

       (4) If the
department enters into an agreement under this section, the department shall
submit a report to the standing or interim committees of the Legislative
Assembly relating to emergency services, on or before December 31 of each year,
that describes the administration and effectiveness of the card program. 

       (5) Purchase of a
card does not exempt a purchaser from liability for reimbursement under ORS
404.270. 

       (6) As used in
this section and ORS 404.410: 

       (a) “Authorized
seller” means a state, local or federal agency or private entity that agrees to
make cards available for purchase. 

       (b) “Card” means
an outdoor recreation search and rescue card. [2021 c.458 §1] 

   

       404.410
Requirements of program; search and rescue grants; reporting. An agreement between the Oregon
Department of Emergency Management and a nonprofit organization under ORS
404.400 must provide for all of the following: 

       (1) The
organization must design and produce cards to be sold to members of the public. 

       (2) The
organization may hold itself out as operating the card program under the
direction and oversight of the department and the State of Oregon. 

       (3) The
organization must make annual and multiyear cards available. Multiyear cards
must expire no later than five years after issuance. 

       (4) The
organization may, at its discretion, make available family cards in addition to
individual cards. 

       (5) The
organization must establish a retail price for each type of card available, not
to exceed: 

       (a) $10 for an
annual individual card; 

       (b) $25 for an
annual family card; 

       (c) $50 for a
multiyear individual card; and 

       (d) $125 for a
multiyear family card. 

       (6) The
organization may coordinate with authorized sellers to make the cards available
for purchase, in person or online. 

       (7) The
organization must establish a fee that an authorized seller may retain for each
sale of a card. The fee may not exceed five percent of the retail price of the
card. 

       (8) The
organization must establish a system for collecting revenues from card sales
from authorized sellers, less any fees retained by the authorized sellers. 

       (9)(a) The
organization must create a separate account for purposes of the card program.
The organization must deposit revenues from card sales in the account. The
organization must deposit interest earned by the account in the account. 

       (b) The
organization may solicit and accept gifts, grants or donations from public or
private sources for deposit in the account, either directly or through
authorized sellers. If an authorized seller accepts a gift, grant or donation
on behalf of the organization, the organization may not permit the authorized
seller to charge or retain any fee related to the gift, grant or donation. 

       (10) The
organization must expend moneys in the account described in subsection (9) of
this section exclusively for the following purposes: 

       (a) To reimburse
county sheriffs’ offices for search and rescue expenses as described in
subsection (11) of this section; 

       (b) To issue
grants to county sheriffs’ offices for search and rescue purposes as described
in subsection (12) of this section; and 

       (c) To reimburse
administrative costs and expenses incurred by the organization in performing
its duties under the agreement, except that the aggregate amount of such
reimbursements may not exceed 10 percent of the aggregate revenues from card
sales collected by the organization over the course of the card program. 

       (11)(a) The
organization may reimburse county sheriffs’ offices for costs incurred in the
performance of the sheriffs’ responsibility for search and rescue activities
under ORS 404.110, including costs, if any, associated with volunteer search
and rescue activities. 

       (b) The
organization must establish a methodology for receiving, evaluating and
prioritizing claims for reimbursement from county sheriffs’ offices. 

       (12)(a) The
organization may issue grants to county sheriffs’ offices for search and rescue
purposes. The organization must permit county sheriffs’ offices to apply for
grants on behalf of volunteer search and rescue organizations. 

       (b) Grants must
carry the following conditions: 

       (A) Grant moneys
must be used exclusively for equipment, training and educational outreach
related to search and rescue; 

       (B) Grant moneys
must be expended within one year after the moneys are disbursed to the
recipient; and 

       (C) Recipients
must report to the organization no later than 90 days after the date that grant
moneys are fully expended, or 15 months after the moneys are disbursed to the
recipient, whichever is earlier. The report must describe the equipment,
training or educational outreach for which the grant moneys were used. 

       (c) The
organization must establish a methodology for equitably distributing grant
moneys among applicants, taking into consideration: 

       (A) Additional
resources available to the applicant; 

       (B) The volume
and nature of search and rescue activities that take place in the applicant’s
county; and 

       (C) Geographical
equity. 

       (13) The
organization must report to the Oregon Department of Emergency Management once
per quarter. The report must include a detailed accounting of revenues and
expenditures related to the agreement. [2021 c.458 §2] 

   

 CHAPTER
405 [Reserved for expansion] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
