 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 Chapter
279B — Public Contracting - Public Procurements 

   

 ORS sections in this
chapter were amended or repealed by the Legislative Assembly during its 2026
regular session. See the table of ORS sections amended or repealed during the
2026 regular session: 2026
A&R Tables 

   

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 PUBLIC CONTRACTING - PUBLIC
PROCUREMENTS 

   

 PUBLIC FACILITIES, CONTRACTING
& INSURANCE 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

 279B.005  Definitions 

   

 279B.010  Policy 

   

 279B.015  Applicability 

   

 279B.020  Maximum hours of labor on
public contracts; holidays; exceptions; liability to workers; rules 

   

 279B.025  Procurement practices
regarding recyclable and reusable goods 

   

 279B.030  Demonstration that
procurement will cost less than performing service with contracting agency’s
own personnel and resources or that performing service is not feasible;
exemptions; analysis for procurement related to information technology; rules 

   

 279B.033  Contents of cost
analysis; conditions under which procurement may proceed; exceptions 

   

 279B.036  Determination of
feasibility of procurement 

   

 279B.040  Prohibition on accepting
bid or proposal from contractor that advised or assisted contracting agency to
develop specifications or solicitation documents; exceptions 

   

 279B.045  Contractor warranty and
covenant concerning tax law compliance 

   

 SOURCE SELECTION 

   

 (Methods of Source Selection) 

   

 279B.050  Methods of source
selection 

   

 279B.055  Competitive sealed
bidding 

   

 279B.060  Competitive sealed
proposals 

   

 279B.065  Small procurements 

   

 279B.070  Intermediate procurements 

   

 279B.075  Sole-source procurements 

   

 279B.080  Emergency procurements 

   

 279B.085  Special procurements 

   

 (Cancellation, Rejection and Delay of
Invitations for Bids or Requests for Proposals) 

   

 279B.100  Cancellation, rejection,
delay of invitations for bids or requests for proposals 

   

 (Qualifications) 

   

 279B.110  Responsibility of bidders
and proposers 

   

 279B.112  Personnel deployment
disclosure; contents; preference for bidder or proposer that will employ more
workers in state; rules; exception 

   

 279B.115  Qualified products lists 

   

 279B.120  Prequalification of
prospective bidders and proposers 

   

 279B.125  Application for
prequalification 

   

 279B.130  Debarment of prospective
bidders and proposers 

   

 (Notice of Intent to Award) 

   

 279B.135  Notice of intent to award 

   

 (Price Agreements) 

   

 279B.140  Price agreements 

   

 (Determinations) 

   

 279B.145  Finality of
determinations 

   

 SPECIFICATIONS 

   

 (General Provisions) 

   

 279B.200  Definitions for ORS
279B.200 to 279B.240 

   

 279B.205  Specifications to
encourage reasonable competition 

   

 279B.210  Policy; development of
specifications 

   

 279B.215  Brand name or equal
specification; brand name specification 

   

 279B.220  Conditions concerning
payment, contributions, liens, withholding 

   

 279B.225  Condition concerning
salvaging, recycling, composting or mulching yard waste material 

   

 279B.230  Condition concerning
payment for medical care and providing workers’ compensation 

   

 279B.235  Condition concerning
hours of labor; compliance with pay equity provisions; employee discussions of
rate of pay or benefits 

   

 279B.240  Exclusion of recycled
oils prohibited 

   

 (Specifications in State Contracts) 

   

 279B.270  State contracting
agencies to use recovered resources and recycled materials; notice to
prospective contractors 

   

 279B.275  Purchase of goods
containing recycled polyethylene material 

   

 279B.280  Use of recycled products
when economically feasible 

   

 279B.283  Condition concerning use
of conflict minerals 

   

 LEGAL REMEDIES 

   

 279B.400  Protests and judicial
review of approvals of special procurements 

   

 279B.405  Protests and judicial
review of solicitations 

   

 279B.410  Protests of contract
award 

   

 279B.415  Judicial review of
protests of contract award 

   

 279B.420  Judicial review of other
violations 

   

 279B.425  Review of
prequalification and debarment decisions 

   

 GENERAL PROVISIONS 

   

       279B.005
Definitions. (1)
As used in this chapter, unless the context or a specifically applicable
definition requires otherwise: 

       (a) “Invitation
to bid” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference,
used for soliciting bids. 

       (b) “Procurement
description” means the words used in a solicitation to describe the goods or
services to be procured. “Procurement description” includes specifications
attached to or made a part of the solicitation. 

       (c) “Request for
proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference,
used for soliciting proposals. 

       (d) “Responsible
bidder” or “responsible proposer” means a person who meets the standards of
responsibility described in ORS 279B.110. 

       (e) “Responsive
bid” or “responsive proposal” means a bid or proposal that substantially
complies with the invitation to bid or request for proposals and all prescribed
procurement procedures and requirements. 

       (2) ORS 279A.010
contains general definitions applicable throughout this chapter. [2003 c.794 §47;
2005 c.103 §7; 2007 c.764 §5] 

   

       279B.010
Policy. In
addition to the policy stated in ORS 279A.015, it is the policy of the State of
Oregon that public contracting activities should: 

       (1) Provide
effective outcomes that represent optimal value to the contracting agency and,
to the greatest extent feasible, be consistent with market practices; 

       (2) Seek
consistency in procurement practices between contracting agencies covered under
the Public Contracting Code while preserving each contracting agency’s ability
to adopt rules to maximize the contracting agency’s effectiveness; and 

       (3) Apply
innovative practices while maintaining quality and integrity. [2003 c.794 §48] 

   

       279B.015
Applicability. 
Except as provided in ORS 279C.320, public contracting under this chapter is
subject to ORS chapter 279A, but not ORS chapter 279C. [2003 c.794 §48a; 2005
c.103 §8] 

   

       279B.020
Maximum hours of labor on public contracts; holidays; exceptions; liability to
workers; rules. 
(1) When labor is employed by a contracting agency through a contractor, a
person may not be required or permitted to labor more than 10 hours in any one
day, or 40 hours in any one week, except in cases of necessity or emergency or
when the public policy absolutely requires it, in which event, the person so
employed for excessive hours shall receive at least time and a half pay: 

       (a)(A) For all
overtime in excess of eight hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week
when the work week is five consecutive days, Monday through Friday; or 

       (B) For all
overtime in excess of 10 hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week when
the work week is four consecutive days, Monday through Friday; and 

       (b) For all work
performed on Saturday and on the following legal holidays: 

       (A) Each Sunday. 

       (B) New Year’s
Day on January 1. 

       (C) Memorial Day
on the last Monday in May. 

       (D) Independence
Day on July 4. 

       (E) Labor Day on
the first Monday in September. 

       (F) Thanksgiving
Day on the fourth Thursday in November. 

       (G) Christmas Day
on December 25. 

       (2) An employer
shall give notice in writing to employees who perform work under subsection (1)
of this section, either at the time of hire or before commencement of work on
the contract, or by posting a notice in a location frequented by employees, of
the number of hours per day and days per week that employees may be required to
work. 

       (3) For the
purpose of this section, each time a legal holiday, other than Sunday, listed
in subsection (1) of this section falls on Sunday, the succeeding Monday shall
be recognized as a legal holiday. Each time a legal holiday listed in
subsection (1) of this section falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be
recognized as a legal holiday. 

       (4) When
specifically agreed to under a written labor-management negotiated labor
agreement, an employee may be paid at least time and a half pay for work
performed on any legal holiday specified in ORS 187.010 and 187.020 that is not
listed in subsection (1) of this section. 

       (5) This section
does not apply to contracts for personal services designated under ORS
279A.055, provided that persons employed under such contracts shall receive at
least time and a half pay for work performed on the legal holidays specified in
subsection (1)(b)(B) to (G) of this section and for all overtime worked in
excess of 40 hours in any one week, except for individuals under personal
services contracts who are excluded under ORS 653.010 to 653.261 or under 29
U.S.C. 201 to 209 from receiving overtime. 

       (6) Subsections
(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to contracts for services at a county
fair or for other events authorized by a county fair board if persons employed
under the contract receive at least time and a half for work in excess of 10
hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week. 

       (7) Subsections
(1) to (3) of this section do not apply to a contract for services if the
contractor is a party to a collective bargaining agreement in effect with any
labor organization. 

       (8)(a)
Subsections (1) and (2) of this section do not apply to contracts for services.
However, persons employed under such contracts shall receive at least time and
a half pay for work performed on the legal holidays specified in a collective
bargaining agreement or in subsection (1)(b)(B) to (G) of this section and for
all time worked in excess of 10 hours in any one day or in excess of 40 hours
in any one week, whichever is greater. 

       (b) An employer
shall give notice in writing to employees who work on a contract for services,
either at the time of hire or before commencement of work on the contract, or
by posting a notice in a location frequented by employees, of the number of
hours per day and days per week that the employees may be required to work. 

       (9) Any
contractor or subcontractor or contractor’s or subcontractor’s surety that
violates the provisions of this section is liable to the affected employees in
the amount of their unpaid overtime wages and in an additional amount equal to
the unpaid overtime wages as liquidated damages. If the violation resulted from
willful falsification of payroll records, the contractor or subcontractor or
contractor’s or subcontractor’s surety is liable to the affected employees in
the amount of their unpaid overtime wages and in an additional amount equal to
twice the unpaid overtime wages as liquidated damages. 

       (10) An action to
enforce liability to employees under subsection (9) of this section may be
brought as an action on the contractor’s payment bond as provided for in ORS
279C.610. 

       (11) This section
does not apply to: 

       (a) Financial
institutions as defined in ORS 706.008. 

       (b) Labor
performed in the prevention or suppression of fire under contracts and
agreements made pursuant to the authority of the State Forester or the State
Board of Forestry under ORS 477.406. 

       (c) Public
contracts for goods or personal property. 

       (12) In
accordance with ORS chapter 183, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and
Industries may adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section. [2003
c.794 §48b; 2005 c.103 §8a] 

   

       279B.025
Procurement practices regarding recyclable and reusable goods. All contracting agencies shall
establish procurement practices that ensure, to the maximum extent economically
feasible, the procurement of goods that may be recycled or reused when
discarded. [2003 c.794 §49] 

   

       279B.030
Demonstration that procurement will cost less than performing service with
contracting agency’s own personnel and resources or that performing service is
not feasible; exemptions; analysis for procurement related to information
technology; rules. 
(1) Except as provided in ORS 279B.036, before conducting a procurement for
services with an estimated contract price that exceeds $250,000, a contracting
agency shall: 

       (a) Demonstrate,
by means of a written cost analysis in accordance with ORS 279B.033, that the
contracting agency would incur less cost in conducting the procurement than in
performing the services with the contracting agency’s own personnel and
resources; or 

       (b) Demonstrate,
in accordance with ORS 279B.036, that performing the services with the
contracting agency’s own personnel and resources is not feasible. 

       (2) If a local
contracting agency authorizes a department, bureau, office or other subdivision
of the local contracting agency to conduct a procurement on behalf of another
department, bureau, office or subdivision of the local contracting agency, the
department, bureau, office or subdivision on whose behalf the procurement is
conducted shall comply with the requirement set forth in subsection (1) of this
section. 

       (3) Subsection
(1) of this section does not apply to: 

       (a) A local
contracting agency or a local contract review board for a city that has a
population of not more than 15,000 or a county that has a population of not
more than 30,000; 

       (b) A community
college that enrolls not more than 1,000 full-time equivalent students, as
defined in ORS 341.005; 

       (c) A special
district, as defined in ORS 198.010, a diking district formed under ORS chapter
551 and a soil and water conservation district organized under ORS 568.210 to
568.808; 

       (d) The Port of
Portland; or 

       (e) Procurements
for client services the definition and scope of which the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services specifies by rule. 

       (4)(a)(A) A state
contracting agency that conducts a cost analysis in accordance with ORS
279B.033 or makes a determination under ORS 279B.036 in connection with a
procurement for services related to information technology, as defined in ORS
291.045, shall provide the State Chief Information Officer and the Legislative
Fiscal Office with copies of the final cost analysis the state contracting
agency prepared under ORS 279B.033 or the final determination the state
contracting agency made under ORS 279B.036. 

       (B) The
requirement to provide the materials described in subparagraph (A) of this
paragraph to the State Chief Information Officer does not apply to the
Secretary of State or the State Treasurer. 

       (b) The
Legislative Fiscal Office may provide materials the office receives under
paragraph (a) of this subsection to a committee of the Legislative Assembly or
to the Emergency Board in accordance with policies the office develops. 

       (c) The State
Chief Information Officer shall adopt rules and develop policies for
incorporating materials the State Chief Information Officer receives under
paragraph (a) of this subsection into the oversight functions that the State
Chief Information Officer exercises under ORS 276A.206 and the planning
functions that the State Chief Information Officer exercises under ORS 276A.233
and 276A.236. [2009 c.880 §2; 2016 c.16 §1] 

   

       279B.033
Contents of cost analysis; conditions under which procurement may proceed;
exceptions. (1) In
the cost analysis required under ORS 279B.030, a contracting agency shall: 

       (a) Estimate the
contracting agency’s cost of performing the services, including: 

       (A) Salary or
wage and benefit costs for contracting agency employees who are directly
involved in performing the services, including employees who inspect, supervise
or monitor the performance of the services. 

       (B) Material
costs, including costs for space, energy, transportation, storage, raw and
finished materials, equipment and supplies. 

       (C) Costs
incurred in planning for, training for, starting up, implementing, transporting
and delivering the services and costs related to stopping and dismantling a
project or operation because the contracting agency intends to procure a
limited quantity of services or procure the services within a defined or
limited period of time. 

       (D) Miscellaneous
costs related to performing the services. The contracting agency may not
include in the cost analysis the contracting agency’s indirect overhead costs
for existing salaries or wages and benefits for administrators or for rent,
equipment, utilities and materials except to the extent that the costs are
attributable solely to performing the services and would not exist unless the
contracting agency performs the services. 

       (b) Estimate the
cost a potential contractor would incur in performing the services, including: 

       (A) Average or
actual salary or wage and benefit costs for contractors and employees who: 

       (i) Work in the
industry or business most closely involved in performing the services that the
contracting agency intends to procure; and 

       (ii) Would be
necessary and directly involved in performing the services or who would
inspect, supervise or monitor the performance of the services; 

       (B) Material
costs, including costs for space, energy, transportation, storage, raw and
finished materials, equipment and supplies; and 

       (C) Miscellaneous
costs related to performing the services, including but not limited to
reasonably foreseeable fluctuations in the costs for the items identified in
this subsection over the expected duration of the procurement. 

       (2)(a) After
comparing the difference between the costs estimated as provided in subsection
(1)(a) of this section with the costs estimated as provided in subsection
(1)(b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection,
the contracting agency may proceed with the procurement only if the contracting
agency would incur more cost in performing the services with the contracting
agency’s own personnel and resources than the contracting agency would incur in
procuring the services from a contractor. The contracting agency may not
proceed with the procurement if the sole reason that the costs estimated in
subsection (1)(b) of this section are lower than the costs estimated in
subsection (1)(a) of this section is because the costs estimated in subsection
(1)(b)(A) of this section are lower than the costs estimated in subsection
(1)(a)(A) of this section. 

       (b) A contracting
agency may proceed with a procurement even if the contracting agency determines
that the contracting agency would incur less cost in providing the services
with the contracting agency’s own personnel and resources if at the time the
contracting agency intends to conduct a procurement, the contracting agency
lacks personnel and resources that are necessary to perform the services within
the time in which the services are required. If the contracting agency conducts
a procurement under the conditions described in this paragraph, the contracting
agency shall: 

       (A) Keep a record
of the cost analysis and findings that the contracting agency makes for each
procurement the contracting agency conducts under this section, along with the
basis for the contracting agency’s decision to proceed with the procurement;
and 

       (B) Collect and
provide copies of the records described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph
each calendar quarter to the local contract review board, if the contracting
agency is a local contracting agency, or to the Emergency Board, if the
contracting agency is a state contracting agency. 

       (c) If the
contracting agency is a state contracting agency, in addition to complying with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this subsection the contracting agency shall
prepare a request to the Governor for an appropriation and any authority that
is necessary for the contracting agency to hire personnel and obtain resources
necessary to perform the services that the contracting agency procured under
the conditions described in paragraph (b) of this subsection. The request must
include a copy of the records that the contracting agency provided to the
Emergency Board under paragraph (b)(B) of this subsection. 

       (3) A cost
analysis, record, documentation or determination made under this section is a
public record. [2009 c.880 §3] 

   

       279B.036
Determination of feasibility of procurement. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of ORS 279B.033
(2)(a), a contracting agency may proceed with a procurement if the contracting
agency reasonably determines in writing that using the contracting agency’s own
personnel or resources to perform the services that the contracting agency
intends to procure is not feasible. The contracting agency may make the
determination described in this subsection without conducting a cost analysis
under ORS 279B.033 if the contracting agency finds that: 

       (a) The
contracting agency lacks the specialized capabilities, experience or technical
or other expertise necessary to perform the services. In making the finding,
the contracting agency shall compare the contracting agency’s capability,
experience or expertise in the field most closely involved in performing the
services with a potential contractor’s capability, experience or expertise in
the same or a similar field. 

       (b) Special
circumstances require the contracting agency to procure the services by
contract. Special circumstances may include, but are not limited to,
circumstances in which: 

       (A) The terms
under which the contracting agency receives a grant or other funds for use in a
procurement require the contracting agency to obtain services through an
independent contractor; 

       (B) Other state
or federal law requires the contracting agency to procure services through an
independent contractor; 

       (C) The
procurement is for services that are incidental to a contract for purchasing or
leasing real or personal property, including service and maintenance agreements
for equipment that is leased or rented; 

       (D) The
contracting agency cannot accomplish policy, administrative or legal goals,
including but not limited to avoiding conflicts of interest or ensuring
independent or unbiased findings in cases when using the contracting agency’s
existing personnel or persons the contracting agency could hire through a
regular or ordinary process would not be suitable; 

       (E) The
procurement is for services to which the provisions of ORS 279B.080 apply; 

       (F) The
procurement is for services, the need for which is so urgent, temporary or
occasional that attempting to perform the services with the contracting agency’s
own personnel or resources would cause a delay that would frustrate the purpose
for obtaining the services; or 

       (G) The services
that the contracting agency intends to procure will be completed within six
months after the date on which the contract for the services is executed. 

       (2) A finding or
determination and supporting documentation for a finding or determination made
under this section is a public record. [2009 c.880 §4] 

   

       279B.040
Prohibition on accepting bid or proposal from contractor that advised or
assisted contracting agency to develop specifications or solicitation
documents; exceptions. 
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, a state contracting
agency that procures personal services for the purpose of advising or assisting
the state contracting agency in developing specifications, a scope or statement
of work, an invitation to bid, a request for proposals or other solicitation
documents and materials related to a procurement may not accept from the
contractor, or an affiliate of the contractor, that advised or assisted the
state contracting agency a bid or proposal for the goods or services described,
specified or identified in the solicitation documents or materials if a
reasonable person would believe that, by giving the advice or assistance, the
contractor or affiliate would have or would appear to have an advantage in
obtaining the public contract that is the subject of the solicitation. 

       (2)(a) If a state
contracting agency anticipates that the state contracting agency will or must
seek advice or assistance of the type described in subsection (1) of this
section from a contractor that is also engaged in providing goods or services
that will be described or identified in the solicitation documents and
materials that result from the advice or assistance, and the state contracting
agency wishes to accept a bid or proposal from the contractor, the state
contracting agency, before awarding a contract for the advice or assistance,
shall apply to the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
for an exception to the prohibition set forth in subsection (1) of this
section. 

       (b) The state
contracting agency in the application for the exception shall include findings
and justifications, along with sufficient facts to support the findings and
justifications, that will enable the director to make an independent judgment
as to whether: 

       (A) The state
contracting agency needs advice or assistance from a contractor to develop the
solicitation documents and materials described in subsection (1) of this
section; 

       (B) Accepting a
bid or proposal from the contractor that gives the advice or assistance is the
only practicable way in which the state contracting agency can conduct the
procurement successfully; and 

       (C) Approving the
exception: 

       (i) Is unlikely
to encourage favoritism in awarding public contracts or to substantially
diminish competition for public contracts; and 

       (ii)(I) Is
reasonably expected to result in substantial cost savings to the state
contracting agency or the public; or 

       (II) Otherwise
substantially promotes the public interest in a manner that could not be
practicably realized by complying with the prohibition described in subsection
(1) of this section. 

       (c)(A) If the
director approves the state contracting agency’s application, the director
shall prepare written findings and justifications for the approval. The state
contracting agency’s findings, justifications and facts and the director’s
findings, justifications and approval are public records that are subject to
disclosure as provided in ORS 192.311 to 192.478. 

       (B) If the
director disapproves the state contracting agency’s application, the director
shall state the director’s reasons for the disapproval in a written notice to
the state contracting agency and shall indicate whether the disapproval extends
only to the state contracting agency’s acceptance of a bid or proposal from a
contractor that gives advice or assistance in preparing solicitation documents
and other materials or whether the director also disagrees with the state
contracting agency’s stated need for advice or assistance from a contractor. 

       (C) The director’s
approval or disapproval is final. 

       (3) As used in
this section, “affiliate” means a person that, directly or indirectly through
one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with a contractor described in this section. 

       (4) This section
does not apply to: 

       (a) The Secretary
of State or the State Treasurer; or 

       (b) A bid or
proposal for quality management services, as defined in ORS 276A.223, that a
state contracting agency receives from a contractor that provided preliminary
quality assurance services, as defined in ORS 276A.223, for the same
information technology initiative that is the subject of the state contracting
agency’s solicitation for quality management services. [2012 c.53 §2; 2014 c.77
§2] 

   

       279B.045
Contractor warranty and covenant concerning tax law compliance. Every public contract that is
subject to this chapter must include a representation and warranty from the
contractor that the contractor has complied with the tax laws of this state or
a political subdivision of this state, including but not limited to ORS 305.620
and ORS chapters 316, 317 and 318. The public contract must also require a
covenant from the contractor to continue to comply with the tax laws of this
state or a political subdivision of this state during the term of the public
contract and provide that a contractor’s failure to comply with the tax laws of
this state or a political subdivision of this state before the contractor
executed the public contract or during the term of the public contract is a
default for which a contracting agency may terminate the public contract and
seek damages and other relief available under the terms of the public contract
or under applicable law. [2015 c.539 §3] 

   

 SOURCE SELECTION 

   

 (Methods of Source
Selection) 

   

       279B.050
Methods of source selection. 
(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, a contracting agency
shall award a public contract for goods or services by competitive sealed
bidding under ORS 279B.055 or competitive sealed proposals under ORS 279B.060. 

       (2) The
requirements of subsection (1) of this section do not apply to public contracts
established as provided in ORS 279B.065, 279B.070, 279B.075, 279B.080 or
279B.085. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding the applicability of ORS 279B.065, 279B.070, 279B.075, 279B.080
or 279B.085 to a public contract, a contracting agency nevertheless may award
the public contract under subsection (1) of this section. 

       (4) A local
contracting agency may elect, by rule, charter, ordinance or other appropriate
legislative action, to award contracts for personal services, as designated
under ORS 279A.055, under the procedures of ORS 279B.050 to 279B.085. 

       (5) State
contracting agencies shall solicit contracts for personal services in
accordance with ORS 279B.050 to 279B.085. [2003 c.794 §50; 2007 c.764 §6] 

   

       279B.055
Competitive sealed bidding. 
(1) A contracting agency may solicit and award a public contract for goods or
services, or may award multiple public contracts for goods or services when
specified in the invitation to bid, by competitive sealed bidding. 

       (2) The
contracting agency shall issue an invitation to bid, which must: 

       (a) Specify a
time and date by which the bids must be received and a place at which the bids
must be submitted. The contracting agency, in the contracting agency’s sole
discretion, may receive bids by electronic means or direct or permit a bidder
to submit bids by electronic means. 

       (b) Specify the
name and title of the person designated to receive bids and the person the
contracting agency designates as the contact person for the procurement, if
different. 

       (c) Describe the
procurement. In the description, the contracting agency shall identify the
scope of work included within the procurement, outline the contractor’s
anticipated duties and set expectations for the contractor’s performance.
Unless the contracting agency for good cause specifies otherwise, the scope of
work shall require the contractor to meet the highest standards prevalent in
the industry or business most closely involved in providing the appropriate
goods or services. 

       (d) Specify a
time, date and place for prequalification applications, if any, to be filed and
the classes of work, if any, for which bidders must be prequalified in
accordance with ORS 279B.120. 

       (e) State that
the contracting agency may cancel the procurement or reject any or all bids in
accordance with ORS 279B.100. 

       (f) State that “Contractors
shall use recyclable products to the maximum extent economically feasible in
the performance of the contract work set forth in this document.” if a state
contracting agency issues the invitation to bid. 

       (g) Require the
contractor or subcontractor to possess an asbestos abatement license, if
required under ORS 468A.710. 

       (h) Include all
contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement. The contract
terms and conditions shall specify clear consequences for a contractor’s
failure to perform the scope of work identified in the invitation to bid or the
contractor’s failure to meet established performance standards. The
consequences may include, but are not limited to: 

       (A) Reducing or
withholding payment; 

       (B) Requiring the
contractor to perform, at the contractor’s expense, additional work necessary
to perform the identified scope of work or meet the established performance
standards; or 

       (C) Declaring a
default, terminating the public contract and seeking damages and other relief
available under the terms of the public contract or other applicable law. 

       (3)(a) The
contracting agency may require bid security if the contracting agency
determines that bid security is reasonably necessary or prudent to protect the
interests of the contracting agency. 

       (b) The
contracting agency shall return the bid security to all bidders upon the
execution of the contract. 

       (c) The
contracting agency shall retain the bid security if a bidder who is awarded a
contract fails to promptly and properly execute the contract. For purposes of
this paragraph, prompt and proper execution of the contract includes all action
by a bidder that is necessary to form a contract in accordance with the
invitation to bid, including posting performance security and submitting proof
of insurance when the invitation to bid requires the submission. 

       (4)(a) The
contracting agency shall give public notice of an invitation to bid issued
under this section. Public notice is intended to foster competition among
prospective bidders. The contracting agency shall make invitations to bid
available to prospective bidders. 

       (b) A public
notice must be published at least once in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the area where the contract is to be performed and in as many
additional issues and publications as the contracting agency may determine. 

       (c) The Director
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or a local contract review
board may, by rule or order, authorize public notice of bids or proposals to be
published electronically instead of in a newspaper of general circulation if the
director or board determines that electronically providing public notice of
bids or proposals is likely to be cost-effective. 

       (d) In addition
to the modes of publication authorized by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
subsection, the contracting agency may use any other medium reasonably
calculated to reach prospective bidders or proposers. 

       (e) Rules adopted
under ORS 279A.065 must prescribe the requirements for providing public notice
of solicitations. 

       (f) Unless
otherwise specified in rules adopted under ORS 279A.065, the contracting agency
shall give public notice at least seven days before the solicitation closing
date. 

       (5)(a) The
contracting agency shall open bids publicly at the time, date and place
designated in the invitation to bid. When authorized by, and in accordance
with, rules adopted under ORS 279A.065, bids may be submitted, received and
opened through electronic means. 

       (b) The
contracting agency shall record the amount of a bid, the name of the bidder and
other relevant information specified by rule adopted under ORS 279A.065. The
record shall be open to public inspection. 

       (c)
Notwithstanding a requirement to make bids open to public inspection after the
contracting agency issues notice of intent to award a contract, a contracting
agency may withhold from disclosure to the public trade secrets, as defined in
ORS 192.345, and information submitted to a public body in confidence, as
described in ORS 192.355, that are contained in a bid. 

       (6)(a) The
contracting agency shall evaluate all bids that are received before the time
and date indicated for bid opening in the invitation to bid. The contracting
agency shall evaluate the bids based on the requirements set forth in the
invitation to bid. The requirements may include, in addition to the information
described in subsection (2) of this section, criteria to determine minimum
acceptability, such as inspection, testing, quality and suitability for
intended use or purpose. Criteria that will affect the bid price and will be
considered in evaluation for award including, but not limited to, discounts,
transportation costs and total costs of ownership or operation of a product
over the life of the product must be objectively measurable. The invitation to
bid must set forth the evaluation criteria to be used. No criteria may be used
in a bid evaluation that are not set forth in the invitation to bid or in a
qualified products list maintained under ORS 279B.115. The contracting agency
may not consider for award bids received after the time and date indicated for
bid opening in the invitation to bid. The contracting agency may retain bids or
copies of bids received after the bid time and date indicated in the invitation
to bid. 

       (b) The
contracting agency shall, for the purpose of evaluating bids, apply any
applicable preference described in ORS 279A.120, 279A.125 or 282.210. 

       (7) Rules adopted
under ORS 279A.065 must provide for and regulate the correction and withdrawal
of bids before and after bid opening and the cancellation of awards or
contracts based on bid mistakes. After bid opening, changes in bids prejudicial
to the interests of the public or fair competition are not permitted. A
contracting agency that permits a bidder to correct or withdraw a bid or that
cancels an award or a contract based on bid mistakes, shall support the
decision with a written determination that states the reasons for the action
taken. 

       (8) The
cancellation of invitations to bid and the rejection of bids must be in
accordance with ORS 279B.100. 

       (9) The
contracting agency shall, in accordance with ORS 279B.135, issue to each bidder
or shall post, electronically or otherwise, a notice of intent to award. 

       (10) If a
contracting agency awards a contract, the contracting agency shall award the
contract: 

       (a) To the lowest
responsible bidder whose bid substantially complies with the requirements and
criteria set forth in the invitation to bid and with all prescribed public
procurement procedures and requirements; or 

       (b) If the
invitation to bid specifies or authorizes the award of multiple contracts, to
the responsible bidders: 

       (A) Whose bids
substantially comply with the requirements and criteria set forth in the
invitation to bid and with all prescribed public procurement procedures and
requirements; and 

       (B) Who qualify
for the award of a public contract under the terms of the invitation to bid. 

       (11) The
successful bidder shall promptly execute a contract. The successful bidder’s
duty to promptly execute a contract includes the duty to take all action that
is necessary to form a contract in accordance with the invitation to bid,
including posting performance security, submitting proof of insurance when the
invitation to bid requires the submission and agreeing to perform the scope of
work and meet the performance standards set forth in the invitation to bid. 

       (12) If a
contracting agency determines that preparing a procurement description to
support an award based on price is impractical, the contracting agency may
issue a multistep invitation to bid that requests bidders to submit unpriced
submittals, and then later issue an invitation to bid limited to the bidders
that the contracting agency officer has determined are eligible to submit a
priced bid under the criteria set forth in the initial solicitation of unpriced
submittals. 

       (13) The
contracting agency may issue a request for information, a request for interest
or other preliminary documents to obtain information useful in preparing an
invitation to bid. [2003 c.794 §51; 2009 c.880 §5] 

   

       279B.060
Competitive sealed proposals. 
(1) A contracting agency may solicit and award a public contract for goods or
services, or may award multiple public contracts for goods or services when
specified in the request for proposals, by requesting and evaluating
competitive sealed proposals. 

       (2) A request for
proposals must: 

       (a) Specify a
time and date by which sealed proposals must be received, and a place at which
the proposals must be submitted. The contracting agency, in the contracting
agency’s sole discretion, may receive proposals by electronic means or may
direct or permit proposers to submit proposals by electronic means. 

       (b) Specify the
name and title of the person designated to receive proposals and the person the
contracting agency designates as the contact person for the procurement, if
different. 

       (c) Describe the
procurement. In the description, the contracting agency shall identify the
scope of work included within the procurement, outline the contractor’s
anticipated duties and set expectations for the contractor’s performance.
Unless the contractor is providing architectural, engineering, photogrammetric
mapping, transportation planning or land surveying services or related
services, as defined in ORS 279C.100, or unless the contracting agency for good
cause specifies otherwise, the scope of work shall require the contractor to
meet the highest standards prevalent in the industry or business most closely
involved in providing the appropriate goods or services. 

       (d) Specify a
time, date and place for prequalification applications, if any, to be filed and
the classes of work, if any, for which proposers must be prequalified in
accordance with ORS 279B.120. 

       (e) State that
the contracting agency may cancel the procurement or reject any or all
proposals in accordance with ORS 279B.100. 

       (f) State that “Contractors
shall use recyclable products to the maximum extent economically feasible in
the performance of the contract work set forth in this document.” if a state
contracting agency issues the request for proposals. 

       (g) Require the
contractor or subcontractor to possess an asbestos abatement license, if
required under ORS 468A.710. 

       (h) Include all
contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement. The contract
terms and conditions shall specify clear consequences for a contractor’s
failure to perform the scope of work identified in the request for proposals or
the contractor’s failure to meet established performance standards. The
consequences may include, but are not limited to: 

       (A) Reducing or
withholding payment; 

       (B) Requiring the
contractor to perform, at the contractor’s expense, additional work necessary
to perform the identified scope of work or meet the established performance
standards; or 

       (C) Declaring a
default, terminating the public contract and seeking damages and other relief
available under the terms of the public contract or other applicable law. 

       (3) The request
for proposals also may: 

       (a) Identify
contractual terms or conditions that the contracting agency reserves, in the
request for proposals, for negotiation with proposers; 

       (b) Request that
proposers propose contractual terms and conditions that relate to subject
matter reasonably identified in the request for proposals; 

       (c) Contain or
incorporate the form and content of the contract that the contracting agency
will accept, or suggest contract terms and conditions that nevertheless may be
the subject of negotiations with proposers; 

       (d) Announce the
method the contracting agency will use to select the contractor, which may
include, but is not limited to, negotiating with the highest ranked proposer,
competitive negotiations, a multiple-tiered competition that is designed to
identify a class of proposers that fall within a competitive range or to
otherwise eliminate from consideration a class of lower ranked proposers or a
combination of methods, as authorized or prescribed by rules adopted under ORS
279A.065; and 

       (e) Describe the
manner in which the contracting agency will evaluate proposals, identifying the
relative importance of price and other factors the contracting agency will use
to evaluate and rate the proposals in the first tier of competition. If the contracting
agency uses more than one tier of competitive evaluation, the request for
proposals must describe the process the contracting agency will use to evaluate
proposals in the subsequent tiers. 

       (4)(a) The
contracting agency may require proposal security in any form the contracting
agency deems prudent. Proposal security must serve the same function with
respect to requests for proposals as bid security serves with respect to
invitations to bid under ORS 279B.055. 

       (b) The
contracting agency shall return the proposal security to all proposers upon the
execution of the contract. 

       (c) The
contracting agency shall retain the proposal security if a proposer who is
awarded a contract fails to promptly and properly execute the contract. For
purposes of this paragraph, prompt and proper execution of the contract
includes all action by a proposer that is necessary to form a contract in
accordance with the request for proposals, including posting performance
security and submitting proof of insurance if the request for proposals
requires the submission. If contract negotiations or competitive negotiations
are conducted, the failure, prior to award, of a contracting agency and a
proposer to reach agreement does not constitute grounds for retaining proposal
security. 

       (5) A contracting
agency shall give public notice of the request for proposals in the same manner
as provided for public notice of invitations to bid in ORS 279B.055 (4). 

       (6)(a)
Notwithstanding ORS 192.311 to 192.478, a contracting agency may open proposals
in a manner that avoids disclosing contents to competing proposers during, when
applicable, the process of negotiation, but the contracting agency shall record
and make available the identity of all proposers as part of the contracting
agency’s public records after the proposals are opened. Notwithstanding ORS
192.311 to 192.478, proposals are not required to be open for public inspection
until after the notice of intent to award a contract is issued. The fact that
proposals are opened at a meeting, as defined in ORS 192.610, does not make the
contents of the proposals subject to disclosure, regardless of whether the
public body opening the proposals fails to give notice of or provide for an
executive session for the purpose of opening proposals. 

       (b)
Notwithstanding a requirement to make proposals open to public inspection after
the contracting agency issues notice of intent to award a contract, a
contracting agency may withhold from disclosure to the public materials
included in a proposal that are exempt or conditionally exempt from disclosure
under ORS 192.345 or 192.355. 

       (c) If a
contracting agency cancels a request for proposals under ORS 279B.100 after
receiving or rejecting proposals, the contracting agency may return a proposal
to the proposer that made the proposal. The contracting agency shall keep a
list of returned proposals in the file for the solicitation. 

       (7) As provided
in the request for proposals or in written addenda issued thereunder, the
contracting agency, before or after opening proposals, may conduct site tours,
demonstrations, individual or group discussions and other informational
activities with proposers for the purpose of clarification to ensure full
understanding of, and responsiveness to, the solicitation requirements or to
consider and respond to requests for modifications of the proposal
requirements. The contracting agency shall use procedures designed to accord
proposers fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity for
discussion and revision of proposals. 

       (8) For purposes
of evaluation, when provided for in the request for proposals, the contracting
agency may employ methods of contractor selection that include, but are not
limited to: 

       (a) An award or
awards based solely on the ranking of proposals; 

       (b) Discussions
leading to best and final offers, in which the contracting agency may not
disclose private discussions leading to best and final offers; 

       (c) Discussions
leading to best and final offers, in which the contracting agency may not
disclose information derived from proposals submitted by competing proposers; 

       (d) Serial
negotiations, beginning with the highest ranked proposer; 

       (e) Competitive
simultaneous negotiations; 

       (f)
Multiple-tiered competition designed to identify, at each level, a class of
proposers that fall within a competitive range or to otherwise eliminate from
consideration a class of lower ranked proposers; 

       (g) A multistep
request for proposals requesting the submission of unpriced technical
submittals, and then later issuing a request for proposals limited to the
proposers whose technical submittals the contracting agency had determined to
be qualified under the criteria set forth in the initial request for proposals;
or 

       (h) A combination
of methods described in this subsection, as authorized or prescribed by rules
adopted under ORS 279A.065. 

       (9) Revisions of
proposals may be permitted after the submission of proposals and before award
for the purpose of obtaining best offers or best and final offers. 

       (10) After
opening proposals, a contracting agency may issue or electronically post an
addendum to the request for proposals that modifies the criteria, rating
process and procedure for any tier of competition before the start of the tier
to which the addendum applies. The contracting agency shall send an addendum
that is issued by a method other than electronic posting to all proposers who
are eligible to compete under the addendum. The contracting agency shall issue
or post the addendum at least five days before the start of the subject tier of
competition or as the contracting agency otherwise determines is adequate to
allow eligible proposers to prepare for the competition in accordance with
rules adopted under ORS 279A.065. 

       (11) The
cancellation of requests for proposals and the rejection of proposals must be
in accordance with ORS 279B.100. 

       (12) In a request
for proposals, a contracting agency shall describe the methods by which the
contracting agency will make the results of each tier of competitive evaluation
available to the proposers who competed in the tier. The contracting agency
shall include a description of the manner in which the proposers who are
eliminated from further competition may protest or otherwise object to the
contracting agency’s decision. 

       (13) A
contracting agency shall issue or electronically post the notice of intent to
award described in ORS 279B.135 to each proposer who was evaluated in the final
competitive tier. 

       (14) If a
contracting agency awards a contract, the contracting agency shall award the
contract to the responsible proposer whose proposal the contracting agency
determines in writing is the most advantageous to the contracting agency based
on the evaluation process and evaluation factors described in this section and
in the request for proposals, applicable preferences described in ORS 279A.120
and 279A.125 and, when applicable, the outcome of any negotiations authorized
by the request for proposals. Other factors may not be used in the evaluation.
If the request for proposals specifies or authorizes awarding multiple public
contracts, the contracting agency shall award public contracts to the
responsible proposers who qualify for the award of a contract under the terms
of the request for proposals. 

       (15) A
contracting agency may issue a request for information, a request for interest,
a request for qualifications or other preliminary documents to obtain
information useful in preparing a request for proposals. 

       (16) Before
executing a contract solicited under this section, a contracting agency shall
obtain the proposer’s agreement to perform the scope of work and meet the
performance standards set forth in the final negotiated scope of work. [2003
c.794 §52; 2009 c.880 §6; 2011 c.458 §12; 2018 c.85 §§3,4] 

   

       279B.065 Small
procurements. (1)
A contracting agency may award a public contract for goods or services that
does not exceed a contract price of $25,000 in any manner the contracting
agency deems practical or convenient, including by direct selection or award. A
contract awarded under this section may be amended to exceed $25,000 only in
accordance with rules adopted under ORS 279A.065. 

       (2) A state
contracting agency that awards a public contract with a contract price of
$10,000 or more using a method permitted under this section shall document in
the state contracting agency’s procurement file the actions the state
contracting agency takes to: 

       (a) Comply with
ORS 200.035; and 

       (b) Consider for
the procurement businesses or enterprises that the Certification Office for
Business Inclusion and Diversity certifies under ORS 200.055. 

       (3) A contracting
agency may not artificially divide or fragment a procurement so as to
constitute a small procurement under this section. [2003 c.794 §53; 2005 c.64 §1;
2005 c.103 §8b; 2013 c.66 §1; 2023 c.127 §1] 

   

       279B.070
Intermediate procurements. 
(1) A contracting agency may award a public contract for goods or services that
exceeds a contract price of $25,000, but does not exceed a contract price of
$250,000, as provided in subsection (4) of this section. A contract awarded
under this section may be amended to exceed $250,000 only in accordance with
rules adopted under ORS 279A.065. 

       (2) A state
contracting agency that awards a public contract with a contract price of
$10,000 or more using a method permitted under this section shall document in
the state contracting agency’s procurement file the actions the state
contracting agency takes to: 

       (a) Comply with
ORS 200.035; and 

       (b) Invite to
participate in the procurement qualified businesses or enterprises that the
Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity certifies under ORS
200.055. 

       (3) A contracting
agency may not artificially divide or fragment a procurement so as to
constitute an intermediate procurement under this section. 

       (4) When
conducting an intermediate procurement, a contracting agency shall seek at
least three informally solicited competitive price quotes or competitive
proposals from prospective contractors. The contracting agency shall keep a
written record of the sources of the quotes or proposals received. If three
quotes or proposals are not reasonably available, fewer will suffice, but the
contracting agency shall make a written record of the effort the contracting
agency makes to obtain the quotes or proposals. 

       (5) If a
contracting agency awards a public contract, the contracting agency shall award
the public contract to the offeror whose quote or proposal will best serve the
interests of the contracting agency, taking into account price as well as
considerations including, but not limited to, experience, expertise, product
functionality, suitability for a particular purpose and contractor
responsibility under ORS 279B.110. [2003 c.794 §54; 2013 c.66 §2; 2023 c.127 §2] 

   

       279B.075
Sole-source procurements. 
(1) A contracting agency may award a contract for goods or services without
competition if the Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services, a local contract review board, a state contracting agency, if the
state contracting agency has procurement authority under ORS 279A.050, the
State Chief Information Officer, with respect to goods or services described in
subsection (2)(b) of this section and if the director has delegated the
necessary authority to the State Chief Information Officer, or a person
designated in writing by the director, board or state contracting agency with
procurement authority under ORS 279A.050, determines in writing, in accordance
with rules adopted under ORS 279A.065, that the goods or services, or class of
goods or services, are available from only one source. 

       (2) The
determination of a sole source must be based on written findings that may
include: 

       (a) That the
efficient utilization of existing goods requires acquiring compatible goods or
services; 

       (b) That the
goods or services required to exchange software or data with other public or
private agencies are available from only one source; 

       (c) That the
goods or services are for use in a pilot or an experimental project; or 

       (d) Other
findings that support the conclusion that the goods or services are available
from only one source. 

       (3) To the extent
reasonably practical, the contracting agency shall negotiate with the sole
source to obtain contract terms that are advantageous to the contracting
agency. [2003 c.794 §55; 2005 c.103 §8c; 2015 c.807 §24] 

   

       279B.080
Emergency procurements. 
(1) The head of a contracting agency, or a person designated under ORS
279A.075, may make or authorize others to make emergency procurements of goods
or services in an emergency. The contracting agency shall document the nature
of the emergency and describe the method used for the selection of the
particular contractor. 

       (2) For an
emergency procurement of construction services that are not public
improvements, the contracting agency shall ensure competition for a contract
for the emergency work that is reasonable and appropriate under the emergency
circumstances. In conducting the procurement, the contracting agency shall set
a solicitation time period that the contracting agency determines to be
reasonable under the emergency circumstances and may issue written or oral
requests for offers or make direct appointments without competition in cases of
extreme necessity. [2003 c.794 §56; 2007 c.764 §6a] 

   

       279B.085
Special procurements. 
(1) As used in this section and ORS 279B.400: 

       (a) “Class
special procurement” means a contracting procedure that differs from the
procedures described in ORS 279B.055, 279B.060, 279B.065 and 279B.070 and is
for the purpose of entering into a series of contracts over time or for
multiple projects. 

       (b) “Contract-specific
special procurement” means a contracting procedure that differs from the
procedures described in ORS 279B.055, 279B.060, 279B.065 and 279B.070 and is
for the purpose of entering into a single contract or a number of related
contracts on a one-time basis or for a single project. 

       (c) “Special
procurement” means, unless the context requires otherwise, a class special
procurement, a contract-specific special procurement or both. 

       (2) Except as
provided in subsection (3) of this section, to seek approval of a special
procurement, a contracting agency shall submit a written request to the
Director of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the local
contract review board, as applicable, that describes the contracting procedure,
the goods or services or the class of goods or services that are the subject of
the special procurement and the circumstances that justify the use of a special
procurement under the standards set forth in subsection (4) of this section. 

       (3) When the
contracting agency is the office of the Secretary of State or the office of the
State Treasurer, to seek approval of a special procurement, the contracting
agency shall submit a written request to the Secretary of State or the State
Treasurer, as applicable, that describes the contracting procedure, the goods
or services or the class of goods or services that are the subject of the
special procurement and the circumstances that justify the use of a special
procurement under the standards set forth in subsection (4) of this section. 

       (4) The director,
a local contract review board, the Secretary of State or the State Treasurer
may approve a special procurement if the director, board, Secretary of State or
State Treasurer finds that a written request submitted under subsection (2) or (3)
of this section demonstrates that the use of a special procurement as described
in the request, or an alternative procedure prescribed by the director, board,
Secretary of State or State Treasurer: 

       (a) Is unlikely
to encourage favoritism in the awarding of public contracts or to substantially
diminish competition for public contracts; and 

       (b)(A) Is
reasonably expected to result in substantial cost savings to the contracting
agency or to the public; or 

       (B) Otherwise
substantially promotes the public interest in a manner that could not
practicably be realized by complying with requirements that are applicable
under ORS 279B.055, 279B.060, 279B.065 or 279B.070 or under any rules adopted
thereunder. 

       (5) Public notice
of the approval of a special procurement must be given in the same manner as
provided in ORS 279B.055 (4). 

       (6) If a
contracting agency intends to award a contract through a special procurement
that calls for competition among prospective contractors, the contracting
agency shall award the contract to the offeror the contracting agency
determines to be the most advantageous to the contracting agency. 

       (7) When the
director, a local contract review board, the Secretary of State or the State
Treasurer approves a class special procurement under this section, the
contracting agency may award contracts to acquire goods or services within the
class of goods or services in accordance with the terms of the approval without
making a subsequent request for a special procurement. [2003 c.794 §57; 2005
c.103 §8d; 2007 c.764 §7] 

   

 (Cancellation,
Rejection and Delay of Invitations for Bids or Requests for Proposals) 

   

       279B.100
Cancellation, rejection, delay of invitations for bids or requests for
proposals. (1) Any
solicitation or procurement described in a solicitation may be canceled, or any
or all bids or proposals may be rejected in whole or in part, when the
cancellation or rejection is in the best interest of the contracting agency as
determined by the contracting agency. The reasons for the cancellation or
rejection must be made part of the solicitation file. A contracting agency is
not liable to any bidder or proposer for any loss or expense caused by or
resulting from the cancellation or rejection of a solicitation, bid, proposal
or award. 

       (2) Any
solicitation or procurement described in a solicitation may be delayed or
suspended when the delay or suspension is in the best interest of the
contracting agency as determined by the contracting agency. The contracting
agency shall make the reasons for the delay or suspension part of the
solicitation file. A contracting agency is not liable to any bidder or proposer
for any loss or expense caused by or resulting from the delay or suspension of
a solicitation, bid, proposal or award. [2003 c.794 §58] 

   

 (Qualifications) 

   

       279B.110
Responsibility of bidders and proposers. (1) As part of a contracting agency’s evaluation of a
bid or proposal, the contracting agency shall determine whether the bidder or
proposer is responsible in accordance with the standards of responsibility set
forth in subsection (2) of this section. If the contracting agency determines that
a bidder or proposer is not responsible, the contracting agency shall provide
the bidder or proposer with written notice of the contracting agency’s
determination. 

       (2) In order for
a contracting agency to determine that a bidder or proposer is responsible, the
bidder or proposer must demonstrate to the contracting agency that the bidder
or proposer: 

       (a) Has available
the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility and personnel
resources and expertise, or has the ability to obtain the resources and
expertise, necessary to meet all contractual responsibilities. 

       (b) Completed
previous contracts of a similar nature with a satisfactory record of
performance. For purposes of this paragraph, a satisfactory record of
performance means that to the extent that the costs associated with and time
available to perform a previous contract remained within the bidder’s or
proposer’s control, the bidder or proposer stayed within the time and budget
allotted for the procurement and otherwise performed the contract in a
satisfactory manner. The contracting agency shall document the bidder’s or
proposer’s record of performance if the contracting agency finds under this
paragraph that the bidder or proposer is not responsible. 

       (c) Has a
satisfactory record of integrity. The contracting agency in evaluating the
bidder’s or proposer’s record of integrity may consider, among other things,
whether the bidder or proposer has previous criminal convictions for offenses
related to obtaining or attempting to obtain a contract or subcontract or in
connection with the bidder’s or proposer’s performance of a contract or
subcontract. The contracting agency shall document the bidder’s or proposer’s
record of integrity if the contracting agency finds under this paragraph that
the bidder or proposer is not responsible. 

       (d) Is legally
qualified to contract with the contracting agency. 

       (e) Complied with
the tax laws of the state or a political subdivision of the state, including
ORS 305.620 and ORS chapters 316, 317 and 318. The bidder or proposer shall
demonstrate compliance by attesting to the bidder’s or proposer’s compliance in
any way the contracting agency deems credible and convenient. 

       (f) Possesses an
unexpired certificate that the Oregon Department of Administrative Services
issued under ORS 279A.167 if the bidder or proposer employs 50 or more
full-time workers and submitted a bid or proposal for a procurement with an
estimated contract price that exceeds $500,000 in response to an advertisement
or solicitation from a state contracting agency. 

       (g) Supplied all
necessary information in connection with the inquiry concerning responsibility.
If a bidder or proposer fails to promptly supply information concerning
responsibility that the contracting agency requests, the contracting agency
shall determine the bidder’s or proposer’s responsibility based on available
information or may find that the bidder or proposer is not responsible. 

       (h) Was not
debarred by the contracting agency under ORS 279B.130. 

       (3) A contracting
agency may refuse to disclose outside of the contracting agency confidential
information furnished by a bidder or proposer under this section when the
bidder or proposer has clearly identified in writing the information the bidder
or proposer seeks to have treated as confidential and the contracting agency
has authority under ORS 192.311 to 192.478 to withhold the identified
information from disclosure. [2003 c.794 §59; 2009 c.880 §7; 2014 c.77 §3; 2015
c.539 §§1,5a] 

   

       279B.112
Personnel deployment disclosure; contents; preference for bidder or proposer
that will employ more workers in state; rules; exception. (1) A bidder or proposer that
submits a bid or proposal for a public contract may submit with the bid or
proposal a personnel deployment disclosure. A personnel deployment disclosure
that a bidder or proposer submits under this section must state: 

       (a) The number of
workers that the bidder or proposer and the bidder or proposer’s subcontractors
plan to deploy to perform the work described in the invitation to bid or the
request for proposals; 

       (b) The number of
workers that the bidder or proposer and the bidder’s or proposer’s first-tier
subcontractors will employ within this state; and 

       (c) The number of
jobs in each of the categories described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
subsection that would be a newly created job. 

       (2) A state
contracting agency that receives a personnel deployment disclosure from a
bidder or proposer under subsection (1) of this section may consider the
personnel deployment disclosure in evaluating a bid or proposal if the
contracting agency states in the solicitation documents for a procurement that
the state contracting agency will consider a personnel deployment disclosure.
The state contracting agency may give a preference to a bid or proposal that
states that the bidder or proposer will employ more workers within this state
than a competing bid or proposal if the bids or proposals otherwise suit the
state contracting agency’s specifications for the procurement equally well. 

       (3) The Director
of the Oregon Department of Administrative Services, the Attorney General and a
state contracting agency that adopts rules under ORS 279A.065 may adopt rules
to prescribe the form and contents of a personnel deployment disclosure and otherwise
to implement the provisions of this section. 

       (4) This section
does not apply to the Secretary of State or the State Treasurer. [2012 c.53 §6] 

   

       279B.115
Qualified products lists. 
(1) A contracting agency may develop and maintain a qualified products list in
instances in which the testing or examination of goods before initiating a
procurement is necessary or desirable in order to best satisfy the requirements
of the contracting agency. For purposes of this section, “goods” includes
products that have associated or incidental service components, such as
supplier warranty obligations or maintenance service programs. 

       (2) In the
initial development of any qualified products list, a contracting agency shall
give public notice, in accordance with ORS 279B.055 (4), of the opportunity for
potential contractors, sellers or suppliers to submit goods for testing and
examination to determine their acceptability for inclusion on the list and may
solicit in writing representative groups of potential contractors, sellers or
suppliers to submit goods for the testing and examination. Any potential
contractor, seller or supplier, even though not solicited, may offer its goods
for consideration. 

       (3) A contracting
agency’s inclusion of goods on a qualified products list shall be based on the
results of tests or examinations. Notwithstanding any provision of ORS 192.311
to 192.478, a contracting agency may make the test or examination results
public in a manner that protects the identity of the potential contractor,
seller or supplier that offered the goods for testing or examination, including
by using only numerical designations. Notwithstanding any provision of ORS
192.311 to 192.478, a contracting agency may keep confidential trade secrets,
test data and similar information provided by a potential contractor, seller or
supplier if so requested in writing by the potential contractor, seller or
supplier. 

       (4) The inclusion
of goods on a qualified products list does not constitute and may not be
construed as a prequalification under ORS 279B.120 and 279B.125 of any
prospective contractor, seller or supplier of goods on the qualified products
list. [2003 c.794 §60] 

   

       279B.120
Prequalification of prospective bidders and proposers. (1) A contracting agency may
prequalify prospective bidders or proposers to submit bids or proposals for
public contracts to provide particular types of goods or services. The method
of submitting prequalification applications, the information required in order
to be prequalified and the forms to be used for submitting prequalification
information shall be determined by the contracting agency unless otherwise
prescribed by rule adopted by the Director of the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services or the local contract review board. 

       (2) The
contracting agency shall, in response to the receipt of a prequalification
application submitted under subsection (1) of this section, notify the
prospective bidder or proposer whether the prospective bidder or proposer is
qualified based on the standards of responsibility listed in ORS 279B.110 (2),
the type and nature of contracts that the prospective bidder or proposer is
qualified to compete for and the time period for which the prequalification is
valid. If the contracting agency does not prequalify a prospective bidder or
proposer as to any contracts covered by the prequalification process, the
notice must specify which of the standards of responsibility listed in ORS
279B.110 (2) the prospective bidder or proposer failed to meet. Unless the
reasons are specified, the prospective bidder or proposer shall be deemed to
have been prequalified in accordance with the application. 

       (3) If a
contracting agency subsequently discovers that a prospective bidder or proposer
that prequalified under subsections (1) and (2) of this section is no longer
qualified, the agency may revoke the prequalification upon reasonable notice to
the prospective bidder or proposer, except that a revocation is invalid as to
any contract for which an advertisement for bids or proposals has already been
issued. [2003 c.794 §61] 

   

       279B.125
Application for prequalification. 
(1) When a contracting agency permits or requires prequalification of bidders
or proposers, a prospective bidder or proposer who wishes to prequalify shall
submit a prequalification application to the contracting agency on a form
prescribed under ORS 279B.120 (1). Upon receipt of a prequalification
application, the contracting agency shall investigate the prospective bidder or
proposer as necessary to determine whether the prospective bidder or proposer
is qualified. The determination shall be made in less than 30 days, if
practicable, if the prospective bidder or proposer requests an early decision
to allow the prospective bidder or proposer as much time as possible to prepare
a bid or proposal for a contract that has been advertised. In making its determination,
the contracting agency shall consider only the applicable standards of
responsibility listed in ORS 279B.110 (2). The contracting agency shall
promptly notify the prospective bidder or proposer whether the prospective
bidder or proposer is qualified. 

       (2) If the
contracting agency finds that a prospective bidder or proposer is qualified,
the notice must state the type and nature of contracts that the prospective
bidder or proposer is qualified to compete for and the period of time for which
the prequalification is valid. If the agency finds that the prospective bidder
or proposer is not qualified as to any contracts covered by the rule,
resolution, ordinance or other regulation, the notice must specify the reasons
given under ORS 279B.120 for not prequalifying the prospective bidder or
proposer and inform the prospective bidder or proposer of the right to a
hearing under ORS 279B.425. To be entitled to a hearing under ORS 279B.425, a
prospective bidder or proposer shall, within three business days after receipt
of the notice, notify the contracting agency that the prospective bidder or
proposer demands a hearing under ORS 279B.425. 

       (3) If a
contracting agency has reasonable cause to believe that there has been a
substantial change in the conditions of a prequalified prospective bidder or
proposer and that the prospective bidder or proposer is no longer qualified or
is less qualified, the contracting agency may revoke or may revise and reissue
the prequalification after reasonable notice to the prequalified prospective
bidder or proposer. The notice must specify the reasons given under ORS
279B.120 for revocation or revision of the prequalification of the prospective
bidder or proposer and inform the prospective bidder or proposer of the right
to a hearing under ORS 279B.425. To be entitled to a hearing under ORS
279B.425, a prospective bidder or proposer shall, within three business days
after receipt of the notice, notify the contracting agency that the prospective
bidder or proposer demands a hearing under ORS 279B.425. A revocation or
revision does not apply to any contract for which an advertisement for bids or
proposals was issued before the date the notice of revocation or revision was
received by the prequalified prospective bidder or proposer. [2003 c.794 §62] 

   

       279B.130
Debarment of prospective bidders and proposers. (1)(a) A contracting agency may
debar a prospective bidder or proposer from consideration for award of the
contracting agency’s contracts for the reasons listed in subsection (2) of this
section after providing the prospective bidder or proposer with notice and a
reasonable opportunity to be heard. 

       (b) A contracting
agency may not debar a prospective bidder or proposer under this section for
more than three years. 

       (2) A prospective
bidder or proposer may be debarred from consideration for award of a
contracting agency’s contracts if: 

       (a) The
prospective bidder or proposer has been convicted of a criminal offense as an
incident in obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or
subcontract or in the performance of a public or private contract or
subcontract. 

       (b) The
prospective bidder or proposer has been convicted under state or federal
statutes of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction
of records, receiving stolen property or any other offense indicating a lack of
business integrity or business honesty that currently, seriously and directly
affects the prospective bidder’s or proposer’s responsibility as a contractor. 

       (c) The
prospective bidder or proposer has been convicted under state or federal
antitrust statutes. 

       (d) The
prospective bidder or proposer has committed a violation of a contract
provision that is regarded by the contracting agency or the Construction
Contractors Board to be so serious as to justify disqualification. A violation
may include but is not limited to a failure to perform the terms of a contract
or an unsatisfactory performance in accordance with the terms of the contract.
However, a failure to perform or an unsatisfactory performance caused by acts
beyond the control of the contractor may not be considered to be a basis for
debarment. 

       (e) The
prospective bidder or proposer does not carry workers’ compensation or
unemployment insurance as required by statute. 

       (3) A contracting
agency shall issue a written decision to debar a prospective bidder or proposer
under this section. The decision must: 

       (a) State the
reasons for the action taken; and 

       (b) Inform the
debarred prospective bidder or proposer of the appeal rights of the prospective
bidder or proposer under ORS 279B.425. 

       (4) A copy of the
decision issued under subsection (3) of this section must be mailed or
otherwise furnished immediately to the debarred prospective bidder or proposer. 

       (5) A prospective
bidder or proposer that wishes to appeal debarment shall, within three business
days after receipt of notice of debarment, notify the contracting agency that
the prospective bidder or proposer appeals the debarment as provided in ORS 279B.425.
[2003 c.794 §63; 2007 c.764 §8] 

   

 (Notice of Intent to
Award) 

   

       279B.135
Notice of intent to award. 
At least seven days before the award of a public contract, unless the
contracting agency determines that seven days is impractical under rules
adopted under ORS 279A.065, the contracting agency shall post or provide to
each bidder or proposer notice of the contracting agency’s intent to award a
contract. This section does not apply to a contract awarded as a small
procurement under ORS 279B.065, an intermediate procurement under ORS 279B.070,
a sole-source procurement under ORS 279B.075, an emergency procurement under
ORS 279B.080 or a special procurement under ORS 279B.085. The notice and its
manner of posting or issuance must conform to rules adopted under ORS 279A.065.
[2003 c.794 §64] 

   

 (Price Agreements) 

   

       279B.140 Price
agreements. (1) A
price agreement constitutes a firm offer by the contractor regardless of
whether any order or purchase has been made or any performance has been
tendered under the price agreement. Unless the price agreement otherwise
provides, a price agreement is enforceable for the period stated in the price
agreement and, notwithstanding ORS 72.2050, obligations thereunder are not
revocable by the contractor. 

       (2) Under a price
agreement, no quantity unreasonably disproportionate to any stated estimate or,
in the absence of a stated estimate, to any normal or otherwise comparable
prior requirements may be demanded unless otherwise expressly provided in the
price agreement. However, a contracting agency may amend or terminate a price
agreement or an order under a price agreement under any of the following
circumstances: 

       (a) Any failure
of the contracting agency to receive funding, appropriations, limitations,
allotments or other expenditure authority, including the continuation of
program operating authority sufficient, as determined in the discretion of the
contracting agency, to sustain purchases at the levels contemplated at the time
of contracting; or 

       (b) Any change in
law or program termination that makes purchases under the price agreement no
longer authorized or appropriate for the contracting agency’s use. 

       (3) A price
agreement does not constitute an exclusive dealing commitment on the part of
the contracting agency or the contractor unless the price agreement expressly
so provides. [2003 c.794 §68] 

   

 (Determinations) 

   

       279B.145
Finality of determinations. 
A determination under ORS 279B.030, 279B.033, 279B.036, 279B.055 (3) and (7),
279B.060 (4) and (14), 279B.075, 279B.080, 279B.085 and 279B.110 is final and
conclusive unless the determination is clearly erroneous, arbitrary, capricious
or contrary to law. [2003 c.794 §71; 2009 c.880 §8; 2018 c.85 §§5,6] 

   

 SPECIFICATIONS 

   

 (General Provisions) 

   

       279B.200
Definitions for ORS 279B.200 to 279B.240. As used in ORS 279B.200 to 279B.240: 

       (1) “Brand name
or equal specification” means a specification that uses one or more
manufacturers’ names, makes, catalog numbers or similar identifying
characteristics to describe the standard of quality, performance, functionality
or other characteristics needed to meet the contracting agency’s requirements
and that authorizes bidders or proposers to offer goods or services that are
equivalent or superior to those named or described in the specification. 

       (2) “Brand name
specification” means a specification limited to one or more products, brand
names, makes, manufacturer’s names, catalog numbers or similar identifying
characteristics. 

       (3) “Specification”
means any description of the physical or functional characteristics of, or of
the nature of, goods or services to be procured by a contracting agency. “Specification”
may include a description of any requirement for inspecting, testing or
preparing goods or services for delivery. When a solicitation required or
authorized by ORS 279B.050 (4) or (5) to be conducted under ORS 279B.055 or
279B.060 calls in whole or in part for the performance of personal services as
designated under ORS 279A.055, “specification” also includes any description of
the characteristics or nature of the personal services. [2003 c.794 §72; 2007
c.764 §9] 

   

       279B.205
Specifications to encourage reasonable competition. Consistent with ORS 279A.015,
specifications must seek to promote optimal value and suitability for the
purposes intended and to reasonably encourage competition in satisfying a
contracting agency’s needs. Subject to ORS 279B.405, the specification content
must be determined in the sole discretion of the contracting agency. [2003
c.794 §74] 

   

       279B.210
Policy; development of specifications. 
It is the policy of the State of Oregon to encourage the development of clear,
precise and accurate specifications in solicitations for public contracts. To
that end, in developing specifications, contracting agencies may consult, under
contract or otherwise, with technical experts, suppliers, prospective
contractors and representatives of the industries with which the contracting
agencies contract. However, a contracting agency shall take reasonable measures
to ensure that no person who prepares or assists in the preparation of
solicitation documents, specifications, plans or scopes of work, and no
business with which the person is associated, realizes a material competitive
advantage in a procurement that arises from the agency’s use of the
solicitation documents, specifications, plans or scopes of work. The policy
against the realization of a material competitive advantage from the character
of the specifications developed in conjunction with persons outside the
contracting agency does not proscribe advantages that result incidentally from
a contracting agency’s specification of the characteristics of a product or
work to meet the contracting agency’s needs. [2003 c.794 §75] 

   

       279B.215 Brand
name or equal specification; brand name specification. (1)(a) A brand name or equal
specification may be used when the use of a brand name or equal specification
is advantageous to the contracting agency, because the brand name describes the
standard of quality, performance, functionality and other characteristics of
the product needed by the contracting agency. 

       (b) The
contracting agency is entitled to determine what constitutes a product that is
equal or superior to the product specified, and any such determination is
final. 

       (c) Nothing in
this subsection may be construed as prohibiting a contracting agency from
specifying one or more comparable products as examples of the quality,
performance, functionality or other characteristics of the product needed by
the contracting agency. 

       (2) A brand name
specification may be prepared and used only if the contracting agency
determines for a solicitation or a class of solicitations that only the
identified brand name specification will meet the needs of the contracting
agency based on one or more of the following written determinations: 

       (a) That use of a
brand name specification is unlikely to encourage favoritism in the awarding of
public contracts or substantially diminish competition for public contracts; 

       (b) That use of a
brand name specification would result in substantial cost savings to the
contracting agency; 

       (c) That there is
only one manufacturer or seller of the product of the quality, performance or
functionality required; or 

       (d) That
efficient utilization of existing goods requires the acquisition of compatible
goods or services. 

       (3) A contracting
agency’s use of a brand name specification may be subject to review only as
provided in ORS 279B.405. [2003 c.794 §76; 2005 c.103 §8e] 

   

       279B.220
Conditions concerning payment, contributions, liens, withholding. Every public contract shall
contain a condition that the contractor shall: 

       (1) Make payment
promptly, as due, to all persons supplying to the contractor labor or material
for the performance of the work provided for in the contract. 

       (2) Pay all contributions
or amounts due the Industrial Accident Fund from the contractor or
subcontractor incurred in the performance of the contract. 

       (3) Not permit
any lien or claim to be filed or prosecuted against the state or a county,
school district, municipality, municipal corporation or subdivision thereof, on
account of any labor or material furnished. 

       (4) Pay to the
Department of Revenue all sums withheld from employees under ORS 316.167. [2003
c.794 §76a] 

   

       279B.225
Condition concerning salvaging, recycling, composting or mulching yard waste
material. Every
public contract for lawn and landscape maintenance shall contain a condition
requiring the contractor to salvage, recycle, compost or mulch yard waste
material at an approved site, if feasible and cost-effective. [2003 c.794 §76b] 

   

       279B.230
Condition concerning payment for medical care and providing workers’
compensation. (1)
Every public contract shall contain a condition that the contractor shall
promptly, as due, make payment to any person, copartnership, association or
corporation furnishing medical, surgical and hospital care services or other
needed care and attention, incident to sickness or injury, to the employees of
the contractor, of all sums that the contractor agrees to pay for the services
and all moneys and sums that the contractor collected or deducted from the
wages of employees under any law, contract or agreement for the purpose of
providing or paying for the services. 

       (2) Every public
contract shall contain a clause or condition that all subject employers working
under the contract are either employers that will comply with ORS 656.017 or
employers that are exempt under ORS 656.126. [2003 c.794 §76c] 

   

       279B.235
Condition concerning hours of labor; compliance with pay equity provisions;
employee discussions of rate of pay or benefits. (1) Except as provided in
subsections (3) to (6) of this section, every public contract subject to this
chapter must provide that: 

       (a) A contractor
may not employ an employee for more than 10 hours in any one day, or 40 hours
in any one week, except in cases of necessity, emergency or when the public
policy absolutely requires otherwise, and in such cases, except in cases of
contracts for personal services designated under ORS 279A.055, the contractor
shall pay the employee at least time and a half pay for: 

       (A)(i) All
overtime in excess of eight hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week if
the work week is five consecutive days, Monday through Friday; or 

       (ii) All overtime
in excess of 10 hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week if the work
week is four consecutive days, Monday through Friday; and 

       (B) All work the
employee performs on Saturday and on any legal holiday specified in ORS
279B.020. 

       (b) The
contractor shall comply with the prohibition set forth in ORS 652.220, that
compliance is a material element of the contract and that a failure to comply
is a breach that entitles the contracting agency to terminate the contract for
cause. 

       (c) The
contractor may not prohibit any of the contractor’s employees from discussing
the employee’s rate of wage, salary, benefits or other compensation with
another employee or another person and may not retaliate against an employee
who discusses the employee’s rate of wage, salary, benefits or other
compensation with another employee or another person. 

       (2) A contractor
shall give notice in writing to employees who work on a public contract, either
at the time of hire or before work begins on the contract, or by posting a
notice in a location frequented by employees, of the number of hours per day
and days per week that the contractor may require the employees to work. 

       (3) A public
contract for personal services, as described in ORS 279A.055, must provide that
the contractor shall pay the contractor’s employees who work under the public
contract at least time and a half for all overtime the employees work in excess
of 40 hours in any one week, except for employees under a personal services
public contract who are excluded under ORS 653.010 to 653.261 or under 29
U.S.C. 201 to 209 from receiving overtime. 

       (4) A public
contract for services at a county fair, or for another event that a county fair
board authorizes, must provide that the contractor shall pay employees who work
under the public contract at least time and a half for work in excess of 10
hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week. A contractor shall notify
employees who work under the public contract, either at the time of hire or
before work begins on the public contract, or by posting a notice in a location
frequented by employees, of the number of hours per day and days per week that
the contractor may require the employees to work. 

       (5)(a) Except as
provided in subsection (4) of this section, a public contract for services must
provide that the contractor shall pay employees at least time and a half pay
for work the employees perform under the public contract on the legal holidays
specified in a collective bargaining agreement or in ORS 279B.020 (1)(b)(B) to
(G) and for all time the employee works in excess of 10 hours in any one day or
in excess of 40 hours in any one week, whichever is greater. 

       (b) A contractor
shall notify in writing employees who work on a public contract for services,
either at the time of hire or before work begins on the public contract, or by
posting a notice in a location frequented by employees, of the number of hours
per day and days per week that the contractor may require the employees to
work. 

       (6) This section
does not apply to public contracts: 

       (a) With
financial institutions as defined in ORS 706.008. 

       (b) Made pursuant
to the authority of the State Forester or the State Board of Forestry under ORS
477.406 for labor performed in the prevention or suppression of fire. 

       (c) For goods or
personal property. [2003 c.794 §77; 2005 c.103 §8f; 2015 c.454 §4] 

   

       279B.240
Exclusion of recycled oils prohibited. 
Every contracting agency shall revise its procedures and specifications for the
procurement of lubricating oil and industrial oil to eliminate any exclusion of
recycled oils and any requirement that oils be manufactured from virgin
materials. [2003 c.794 §78] 

   

 (Specifications in
State Contracts) 

   

       279B.270 State
contracting agencies to use recovered resources and recycled materials; notice
to prospective contractors. 
(1) A state contracting agency procuring goods or personal services shall: 

       (a) Review the
contracting agency’s current procurement specifications in order to eliminate,
wherever economically feasible, discrimination against the procurement of
recovered resources or recycled materials. 

       (b) Provide
incentives, wherever economically feasible, in all procurement specifications
issued by the contracting agency for the maximum possible use of recovered
resources and recycled materials. 

       (c) Develop
procurement practices that, to the maximum extent economically feasible, ensure
the procurement of materials that are recycled or that may be recycled or
reused when discarded. 

       (d) Establish
management practices that minimize the volume of solid waste generated by
reusing paper, envelopes, containers and all types of packaging and by limiting
the amount of materials consumed and discarded. 

       (e) Use, or
require persons with whom the contracting agency contracts to use in the
performance of the contract work, to the maximum extent economically feasible,
recycled paper and recycled PETE products as well as other recycled plastic
resin products. 

       (2) An invitation
to bid or a request for proposals issued by a state contracting agency under
this chapter shall include the following language: “Vendors shall use
recyclable products to the maximum extent economically feasible in the
performance of the contract work set forth in this document.” 

       (3) Each state
contracting agency shall strive to meet a recycled product procurement level
established by rule by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. [2003
c.794 §79; 2007 c.764 §10] 

   

       279B.275
Purchase of goods containing recycled polyethylene material. The Oregon Department of
Administrative Services, in consultation with the Department of Environmental
Quality, shall revise its procedures and specifications for state procurement
of goods containing recycled PETE, as well as other recycled plastic resins, to
encourage the procurement of such goods, provided similarities in quality and
price exist between recycled PETE products and products not qualifying as
recycled PETE products. [2003 c.794 §80] 

   

       279B.280 Use
of recycled products when economically feasible. The Oregon Department of
Administrative Services shall review and work with state agencies to develop
procurement specifications that encourage the use of recycled products whenever
economically feasible, if the quality of a recycled product is functionally
equal to the same product manufactured with virgin resources, including but not
limited to recycled paper, recycled oil and recycled PETE products. Except for
specifications that have been established to preserve the public health and
safety, all procurement specifications shall be established in a manner that
encourages the procurement of recycled products. [2003 c.794 §81] 

   

       279B.283
Condition concerning use of conflict minerals. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Affiliated
entity” means an entity that a prospective contractor controls, that controls
the prospective contractor or that another entity controls in common with the
prospective contractor. 

       (b) “Conflict
minerals” means: 

       (A)
Columbite-tantalite or an ore for tantalum; 

       (B) Cassiterite
or an ore for tin; 

       (C) Wolframite or
an ore for tungsten; 

       (D) Gold; 

       (E) A derivative
of any of the minerals identified in subparagraph (A), (B), (C) or (D) of this
paragraph; or 

       (F) Any other
mineral or derivative of a mineral the extraction, sale, distribution or use of
which a state contracting agency determines, based on findings that the United
States Secretary of State makes, is financing conflict in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo or a country that shares an internationally recognized
border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

       (2)(a) A state
contracting agency in solicitation documents for a public contract shall
require a prospective contractor to state in the prospective contractor’s bid
or proposal for the public contract: 

       (A) Whether and
to what extent any of the materials the prospective contractor or an affiliated
entity of the prospective contractor intends to use in performing the public
contract are conflict minerals; and 

       (B) That the
prospective contractor’s and the affiliated entity’s disclosures, policies,
practices and procedures with respect to procuring conflict minerals comply
with the most recent edition of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 

       (b) A prospective
contractor may meet the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this
subsection by linking or referring in a bid or proposal to a description of
disclosures, policies, practices and procedures with respect to procuring
conflict minerals that the prospective contractor or the affiliated entity has
posted on the prospective contractor’s or affiliated entity’s website or has
otherwise made available as an official publication that is accessible to the
public. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding provisions of law that require a state contracting agency to
award a public contract to the lowest responsible bidder or to the prospective
contractor that submits the best proposal or quotation, to the extent that
procurement requires or will use conflict minerals, a state contracting agency
shall give a preference to each prospective contractor that meets the
requirements set forth in subsection (2) of this section. [2019 c.294 §2] 

   

 LEGAL REMEDIES 

   

       279B.400
Protests and judicial review of approvals of special procurements. (1) Before seeking judicial review
of the approval of a special procurement, a person must file a protest, in
accordance with the rules adopted under ORS 279A.065, with the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services or the local contracting agency,
as applicable, and exhaust all available nonjudicial remedies. The rules
adopted under ORS 279A.065 shall provide a reasonable time and manner for
affected persons to protest the approval of a special procurement under ORS
279B.085. 

       (2) The approval
of a class special procurement by the director under ORS 279B.085 constitutes
rulemaking and not a contested case under ORS chapter 183. Any affected person,
except the state contracting agency that requested the approval or anyone representing
the state contracting agency, may petition the Court of Appeals in the manner
provided in ORS 183.400 to test the validity of a class special procurement
approved by the director. A proceeding under ORS 183.400 does not affect the
validity of a contract executed pursuant to a class special procurement before
the petition is filed. Notwithstanding ORS 183.400 (1), before seeking judicial
review under this subsection, a person must file a protest with the director as
described in subsection (1) of this section. 

       (3)(a) The
approval of a contract-specific special procurement by the director is
reviewable under ORS 183.484, but only if judicial review is sought before the
contract is awarded. Otherwise, a contract awarded pursuant to the
contract-specific special procurement is conclusively presumed valid and may
not, in any future judicial or administrative proceeding, be challenged on the
ground that the contract was awarded under an invalid special procurement. 

       (b) Judicial
review may be sought from the Circuit Court for Marion County or the circuit
court for the county in which the principal offices of the state contracting
agency that requested the approval are located. The circuit court shall give
priority on its docket and expedited review to proceedings under this
subsection. 

       (4)(a) The
approval of a special procurement by a local contract review board may be
challenged by filing a writ of review under ORS chapter 34, provided that all
available nonjudicial remedies first have been exhausted, including protests as
described in subsection (1) of this section. Notwithstanding the 60-day filing
period prescribed by ORS 34.030, the approval of a special procurement is not
subject to a writ of review proceeding more than 10 days after the board
approves the use of the special procurement. 

       (b) The writ of
review may be filed with and is reviewable by the circuit court for the county
in which the principal offices of the local contracting agency that requested
the approval are located. The circuit court shall give priority on its docket
and expedited review to proceedings under this subsection. 

       (5) If timely
judicial review is sought regarding the approval of a special procurement under
ORS 279B.085, the contracting agency may not proceed with contract execution
unless the contracting agency determines that there is a compelling
governmental interest in proceeding or that the goods or services are urgently
needed. If the contracting agency makes such a determination, the contracting
agency shall set forth the reasons for the determination in writing and
immediately provide them to the person who filed the challenge. Thereafter,
after joining the prospective contractor as a party to the litigation and upon
motion by the person filing the challenge, the court may nonetheless stay the
performance of the contract if the court finds that the contracting agency’s
determination of the existence of a compelling governmental interest in
proceeding with contract execution, or the contracting agency’s determination
that the goods or services were urgently needed, was not supported by
substantial evidence or constituted a manifest abuse of discretion. In granting
a stay, the court may require the person seeking the stay to post a bond in an
amount sufficient to protect the contracting agency and the public from costs
associated with delay in contract performance. 

       (6) In its
review, the circuit court shall give due deference to any factual contracting
decision made by the contracting agency and may not substitute its judgment for
that of the contracting agency, but shall review all questions of law de novo.
Thereafter: 

       (a) If a contract
has not been executed and the court rules in favor of the party that sought
judicial review, and if the violation could have affected the award of the
contract, the court shall remand the procurement to the contracting agency for
a determination whether to continue with the procurement process in light of
the court’s decision. 

       (b) In addition
to the relief provided for in paragraph (a) of this subsection, if a contract
has been executed and the court rules in favor of the party that sought
judicial review, the court shall include in its order a determination whether
the party that signed the contract with the contracting agency is entitled to
reimbursement under the conditions of, and calculated in the same manner as
provided in, ORS 279C.470. Notwithstanding that ORS 279C.470 otherwise applies
only to public improvement contracts, under this paragraph the court shall
apply ORS 279C.470 to both public improvement contracts and other public
contracts of contracting agencies. 

       (c) The court may
award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. [2003 c.794 §83; 2005
c.103 §8g] 

   

       279B.405
Protests and judicial review of solicitations. (1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Brand name”
means a brand name specification as defined in ORS 279B.200. 

       (b) “Legally
flawed” means that a solicitation document contains terms or conditions that
are contrary to law. 

       (c) “Unnecessarily
restrictive” means that specifications limit competition arbitrarily, without
reasonably promoting the fulfillment of the procurement needs of a contracting
agency. 

       (2) A prospective
bidder, proposer or offeror for a public contract solicited under ORS 279B.055,
279B.060 or 279B.085 may file a protest with the contracting agency if the
prospective bidder, proposer or offeror believes that the procurement process
is contrary to law or that a solicitation document is unnecessarily
restrictive, is legally flawed or improperly specifies a brand name. If a
prospective bidder, proposer or offeror fails to timely file such a protest,
the prospective bidder, proposer or offeror may not challenge the contract on
grounds under this subsection in any future legal or administrative proceeding. 

       (3) The
contracting agency, pursuant to rules adopted under ORS 279A.065, shall notify
prospective bidders, proposers or offerors of the time and manner in which a
protest under this section may be filed and considered. Before seeking judicial
review, a prospective bidder, proposer or offeror must file a protest with the
contracting agency and exhaust all available administrative remedies. 

       (4) The
contracting agency shall consider the protest if the protest is timely filed
and contains the following: 

       (a) Sufficient
information to identify the solicitation that is the subject of the protest; 

       (b) The grounds
that demonstrate how the procurement process is contrary to law or how the
solicitation document is unnecessarily restrictive, is legally flawed or
improperly specifies a brand name; 

       (c) Evidence or
supporting documentation that supports the grounds on which the protest is
based; and 

       (d) The relief
sought. 

       (5) If the
protest meets the requirements of subsection (4) of this section, the
contracting agency shall consider the protest and issue a decision in writing.
Otherwise, the contracting agency shall promptly notify the prospective bidder,
proposer or offeror that the protest is untimely or that the protest failed to
meet the requirements of subsection (4) of this section and give the reasons
for the failure. 

       (6) The
contracting agency shall issue a decision on the protest in accordance with
rules adopted under ORS 279A.065 no fewer than three business days before bids,
proposals or offers are due, unless a written determination is made by the
agency that circumstances exist that justify a shorter time limit. 

       (7) A decision of
a contracting agency on a protest under this section, including a protest of a
special procurement, is subject to judicial review only if the action or writ
of review is filed before the opening of bids, proposals or offers. 

       (8)(a) A decision
of a state contracting agency on a protest under this section is reviewable by
the Circuit Court for Marion County or the circuit court for the county in
which the principal offices of the state contracting agency are located. 

       (b) A decision of
a local contracting agency on a protest under this section is reviewable by the
circuit court for the county in which the principal offices of the local
contracting agency are located. 

       (9) If judicial
review of a contracting agency’s decision on a protest under this section is
sought, the contracting agency may not proceed with contract execution unless
the contracting agency determines that there is a compelling governmental
interest in proceeding or that the goods and services are urgently needed. If
the contracting agency makes such a determination, the contracting agency shall
set forth the reasons for the determination in writing and immediately provide
them to the prospective bidder, proposer or offeror that filed the protest. Thereafter,
after joining the contractor as a party to the litigation and upon motion from
the person filing the protest, the court may nonetheless stay the performance
of the contract if the court finds that the contracting agency’s determination
of the existence of a compelling governmental interest in proceeding with
contract execution, or the contracting agency’s determination that the goods or
services were urgently needed, was not supported by substantial evidence or
constituted a manifest abuse of discretion. In granting a stay, the court may
require the person seeking the stay to post a bond in an amount sufficient to
protect the contracting agency and the public from costs associated with delay
in contract performance. 

       (10) In its
review, the court shall give due deference to any factual decision made by the
contracting agency and may not substitute its judgment for that of the
contracting agency, but shall review all questions of law de novo. Thereafter: 

       (a) If a contract
has not been executed and the court rules in favor of the party that sought
judicial review, the court shall remand the procurement process to the
contracting agency for a determination of whether and how to continue with the
procurement process in light of the court’s decision. 

       (b) In addition
to the relief provided for in paragraph (a) of this subsection, if a contract
has been executed, the court shall include in its order a determination whether
the party that signed the contract with the contracting agency is entitled to
reimbursement under the conditions of, and calculated in the same manner as
provided in, ORS 279C.470. Notwithstanding that ORS 279C.470 otherwise applies
only to public improvement contracts, under this paragraph the court shall
apply ORS 279C.470 to both public improvement contracts and other public
contracts of contracting agencies. 

       (c) The court may
award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. [2003 c.794 §84; 2007
c.764 §11] 

   

       279B.410
Protests of contract award. 
(1) A bidder or proposer may protest the award of a public contract or a notice
of intent to award a public contract, whichever occurs first, if: 

       (a) The bidder or
proposer is adversely affected because the bidder or proposer would be eligible
to be awarded the public contract in the event that the protest were
successful; and 

       (b) The reason
for the protest is that: 

       (A) All lower
bids or higher ranked proposals are nonresponsive; 

       (B) The
contracting agency has failed to conduct the evaluation of proposals in
accordance with the criteria or processes described in the solicitation
materials; 

       (C) The
contracting agency has abused its discretion in rejecting the protestor’s bid
or proposal as nonresponsive; or 

       (D) The
contracting agency’s evaluation of bids or proposals or the contracting agency’s
subsequent determination of award is otherwise in violation of this chapter or
ORS chapter 279A. 

       (2) The bidder or
proposer shall submit the protest to the contracting agency in writing and
shall specify the grounds for the protest to be considered by the contracting
agency. 

       (3) The rules
adopted under ORS 279A.065 shall establish a reasonable time and manner for
protests to be submitted. The contracting agency may not consider late
protests. 

       (4) The
contracting agency shall consider and respond in writing to a protest in a
timely manner. After the contracting agency issues the response, the bidder or
proposer may seek judicial review in the manner provided in ORS 279B.415. [2003
c.794 §85] 

   

       279B.415
Judicial review of protests of contract award. (1) As used in this section, “bidder”
includes a person who submits a proposal to a public contracting agency
pursuant to a request for proposals. 

       (2) A decision by
a state contracting agency on a protest of a contract award is reviewable by
the Circuit Court for Marion County or the circuit court for the county in
which the principal offices of the state contracting agency are located. A
decision by a local contracting agency on a protest of a contract award is
reviewable by the circuit court for the county in which the principal offices
of the local contracting agency are located. 

       (3) To obtain
review, a complainant must commence an action before the contract that is the
subject of the protest is approved by the Attorney General, if required by ORS
291.047, and executed by the contracting agency. In the complaint, the
complainant shall state the nature of the complainant’s interest, the facts
showing how the complainant is adversely affected or aggrieved by the
contracting agency’s decision and the basis upon which the decision should be
reversed or remanded. The complainant shall join as parties all bidders that
would be in line for an award of the contract ahead of the complainant. If
injunctive relief is sought, the court may require the person seeking a stay to
post a bond in an amount sufficient to protect the contracting agency and the
public from costs associated with delay in execution of the contract. 

       (4) When judicial
review is sought, the contracting agency may not proceed with contract
execution unless the contracting agency determines that there is a compelling
governmental interest in proceeding or that the goods and services are urgently
needed. If the contracting agency makes such a determination, the contracting
agency shall set forth the reasons for the determination in writing and
immediately provide them to the complainant. Thereafter, upon motion from the
complainant, the court may nonetheless stay the performance of the contract if
the court finds that the contracting agency’s determination of the existence of
a compelling governmental interest in proceeding with contract execution, or
the contracting agency’s determination that the goods or services were urgently
needed, was not supported by substantial evidence or constituted a manifest
abuse of discretion. In granting a stay, the court may require the person
seeking the stay to post a bond in an amount sufficient to protect the
contracting agency and the public from costs associated with delay in contract
performance. 

       (5) The court
shall review the matter without a jury and shall consider only those grounds
the complainant raised in the protest to the contracting agency. 

       (6) The court
shall remand the matter to the contracting agency for a further decision if: 

       (a) Substantial
evidence does not exist to support the contracting agency’s decision.
Substantial evidence exists to support a finding of fact when the record,
viewed as a whole, would permit a reasonable person to make that finding; 

       (b) The
contracting agency’s decision was outside the range of discretion delegated to
the contracting agency by law; 

       (c) The decision
was inconsistent with a contracting agency rule, an officially stated
contracting agency position or an officially stated prior contracting agency
practice, if the inconsistency is not explained by the contracting agency; or 

       (d) The decision
was in violation of a constitutional or statutory provision. 

       (7)(a) In
addition to remanding the decision to the contracting agency, the court may
order such ancillary relief, such as the cost of bid preparation, as the court
finds necessary to redress the effects of official action wrongfully taken or
withheld. Ancillary relief does not include the award of a contract to the
complainant or the award of lost profits or other damages. 

       (b) If a contract
has not been executed and the court rules in favor of the complainant, the
court shall remand the matter to the contracting agency for a determination
whether to continue with the procurement process in light of the court’s
decision. 

       (c) If a contract
has been executed, in addition to the relief provided for in paragraph (a) of
this subsection, the court shall include in its order a determination whether
the party that signed the contract with the contracting agency is entitled to
reimbursement under the conditions of, and calculated in the same manner as
provided in, ORS 279C.470. Notwithstanding that ORS 279C.470 otherwise applies
only to public improvement contracts, under this paragraph the court shall
apply ORS 279C.470 to both public improvement contracts and other public
contracts of contracting agencies. 

       (d) The court may
award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. [2003 c.794 §86; 2007
c.764 §12] 

   

       279B.420
Judicial review of other violations. 
(1) If a contracting agency allegedly violates a provision of ORS chapter 279A
and a judicial remedy is not otherwise available under ORS chapter 279A, 279B
or 279C, the alleged violation is subject to judicial review only as provided
in this section. 

       (2) If a
contracting agency allegedly violates a provision of this chapter, except a
provision of ORS 279B.030, 279B.033, 279B.036, 279B.270, 279B.275, 279B.280 or
279B.400 to 279B.425, and a judicial remedy is not otherwise provided in this
chapter or ORS chapter 279A, the alleged violation is subject to judicial
review only as provided in this section. 

       (3) A person may
seek judicial review under this section for a violation described in subsection
(1) or (2) of this section only if: 

       (a) A public
contract is about to be awarded or has been awarded; 

       (b) The alleged
violation of a provision of this chapter or ORS chapter 279A, except a
provision of ORS 279B.030, 279B.033, 279B.036, 279B.270, 279B.275, 279B.280 or
279B.400 to 279B.425, occurred in the procurement process for the public
contract and the alleged violation resulted in or will result in an unlawful
award of a contract or an unlawful failure to award the contract; 

       (c) The alleged
violation deprived the person of the award of the contract or deprived the
person of the opportunity to compete for the award of the contract; 

       (d) The person
was qualified to receive the award of the contract under ORS 279B.110; 

       (e) The person
gave written notice that described the alleged violation to the contracting
agency not later than 10 days after the date on which the alleged violation
occurred and, regardless of when the alleged violation occurred, not later than
10 days after the date of execution of the contract; 

       (f) The person
has exhausted all administrative remedies the contracting agency provides; and 

       (g)(A) The
alleged violation is a violation of a provision of ORS chapter 279A and no
other section of ORS chapter 279A, 279B or 279C provides judicial review; or 

       (B) The alleged
violation is a violation of a provision of this chapter, except a provision of
ORS 279B.030, 279B.033, 279B.036, 279B.270, 279B.275, 279B.280 or 279B.400 to
279B.425, and no other section of this chapter or ORS chapter 279A provides
judicial review. 

       (4) If a state
contracting agency allegedly commits a violation, the Circuit Court for Marion
County or the circuit court for the county in which the principal offices of
the state contracting agency are located may review the alleged violation under
ORS 183.484. 

       (5) If a local
contracting agency allegedly commits a violation, the circuit court for the
county in which the principal offices of the local contracting agency are
located may review the alleged violation by means of a writ of review under ORS
chapter 34. 

       (6) If a person
gives the notice required under subsection (3)(e) of this section and timely
seeks judicial review under this section, the contracting agency may not
execute the contract unless the contracting agency determines that a compelling
governmental interest exists in proceeding or that the goods and services are
urgently needed. A contracting agency that makes such a determination shall set
forth in writing the reasons for the determination and immediately provide the
reasons to the person who filed the challenge. Thereafter, after joining the
prospective contractor as a party to the litigation and upon motion by the
person who filed the challenge, the court may nonetheless stay the performance
of the contract if the court finds that the contracting agency’s determination
that a compelling governmental interest exists in proceeding with contract
execution, or the contracting agency’s determination that the goods or services
were urgently needed, was not supported by substantial evidence or constituted
a manifest abuse of discretion. In granting a stay, the court may require the
person who sought the stay to post a bond in an amount sufficient to protect
the contracting agency and the public from costs associated with a delay in
contract performance. 

       (7) In a review,
the circuit court shall give due deference to any factual contracting decision
the contracting agency made and may not substitute the court’s judgment for the
contracting agency’s judgment. The court shall review all questions of law de
novo. Thereafter: 

       (a) If a contract
has not been executed and the court rules in favor of the person that sought
judicial review, and if the violation could have affected the award of the
contract, the court shall remand the procurement to the contracting agency for
a determination whether to continue with the procurement process in light of
the court’s decision. 

       (b) In addition
to the relief provided for in paragraph (a) of this subsection, if a contract
has been executed and the court rules in favor of the person that sought
judicial review, the court shall include in the court’s order a determination
whether the party that signed the contract with the contracting agency is
entitled to reimbursement under the conditions of, and calculated in the same
manner as provided in, ORS 279C.470. Notwithstanding that ORS 279C.470 otherwise
applies only to public improvement contracts, under this paragraph the court
shall apply ORS 279C.470 to both public improvement contracts and other public
contracts of contracting agencies. 

       (c) The court may
award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. [2003 c.794 §86a; 2009
c.880 §8a; 2011 c.9 §33] 

   

       279B.425
Review of prequalification and debarment decisions. (1) The procedure for appeal from
the denial, revocation or revision of a prequalification under ORS 279B.125, or
from a debarment under ORS 279B.130, shall be in accordance with this section
and is not subject to ORS chapter 183 except when specifically provided by this
section. 

       (2) Upon receipt
of a notice from a contracting agency of a prequalification decision under ORS
279B.125 or of a decision to debar under ORS 279B.130, a prospective bidder or
proposer that wishes to appeal the decision shall, within three business days after
receipt of the notice, notify the contracting agency that the prospective
bidder or proposer appeals the decision as provided in this section. 

       (3) Immediately
upon receipt of the prospective bidder’s or proposer’s notice of appeal, the
contracting agency shall: 

       (a) If the
contracting agency is a state contracting agency, notify the Director of the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services. 

       (b) If the
contracting agency is a local contracting agency, notify the appropriate local
contract review board. 

       (4) Upon the
receipt of notice from the contracting agency under subsection (3) of this
section, the director or board shall promptly notify the person appealing and
the contracting agency of the time and place of the hearing. The director or
board shall conduct the hearing and decide the appeal within 30 days after
receiving the notice from the contracting agency. The director or board shall
set forth in writing the reasons for the hearing decision. 

       (5) At the
hearing the director or board shall consider de novo the notice of denial,
revocation or revision of a prequalification or the notice of debarment, the
standards of responsibility listed in ORS 279B.110 (2) on which the contracting
agency based the denial, revocation or revision of the prequalification or the
reasons listed in ORS 279B.130 (2) on which the contracting agency based the
debarment, and any evidence provided by the parties. In all other respects, a
hearing before the director shall be conducted in the same manner as a
contested case under ORS 183.417 (1) to (4) and (7), 183.425, 183.440, 183.450
and 183.452. Hearings before a board shall be conducted under rules of
procedure adopted by the board. 

       (6) The director
or board may allocate the director’s or board’s costs for the hearing between
the person appealing and the contracting agency whose prequalification or
debarment decision is being appealed. The allocation shall be based upon facts
found by the director or board and stated in the final order that, in the
director’s or board’s opinion, warrant such allocation of costs. If the final
order does not allocate the costs for the hearing, the costs shall be paid as
follows: 

       (a) If the
decision to deny, revoke or revise a prequalification of a person as a bidder
or the decision to debar a person is upheld, the costs shall be paid by the
person appealing the decision. 

       (b) If the
decision to deny, revoke or revise a prequalification of a person as a bidder
or the decision to debar a person is reversed, the costs shall be paid by the
contracting agency whose prequalification or debarment decision is the subject
of the appeal. 

       (7) A decision of
the director or board may be reviewed only upon a petition, filed within 15
days after the date of the decision, in the circuit court of the county in
which the director or board has its principal office. The circuit court shall
reverse or modify the decision only if it finds: 

       (a) The decision
was obtained through corruption, fraud or undue means; 

       (b) There was
evident partiality or corruption that operated to the substantial prejudice of
the petitioner on the part of the director or board or any of the board’s
members; or 

       (c) There was an
evident material miscalculation of figures or an evident material mistake in
the description of any person, thing or property referred to in the decision,
and the miscalculation or mistake operated to the substantial prejudice of the
petitioner. 

       (8) The procedure
provided in this section is the exclusive means of judicial review of the
decision of the director or board. The judicial review provisions of ORS
183.480 and writs of review and mandamus as provided in ORS chapter 34, and
other legal, declaratory and injunctive remedies, are not available. 

       (9) The circuit
court may stay the letting of the contract that is the subject of the petition
in the same manner as a suit in equity. When the court determines that there
has been an improper debarment or denial, revocation or revision of a
prequalification and the contract has been let, the court may proceed to take
evidence to determine the damages, if any, suffered by the petitioner and may
award such damages as the court may find as a judgment against the director or
board. The court may award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. [2003
c.794 §87; 2007 c.288 §12] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
