 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
826 — Registration of Commercial Vehicles 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 REGISTRATION OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES 

   

 OREGON VEHICLE CODE 

   

 826.001     Definitions 

   

 826.003     Rules 

   

 826.005     Authority for
reciprocal registration agreements; permitted provisions; requirements;
limitations 

   

 826.007     Authority for
proportional registration agreements; permitted provisions; requirements;
limitations; rules 

   

 826.008     Certain records not
public 

   

 826.009     Proportional
registration of commercial vehicles 

   

 826.010     Quarterly payment of
registration fees for vehicles registered under ORS 826.009 

   

 826.011     Proportional fleet
registration 

   

 826.013     Registration weight 

   

 826.015     Declaration of weight 

   

 826.017     Registration fees for
proportionally registered vehicles 

   

 826.019     International
Registration Plan fee 

   

 826.021     Proration of fees for
proportionally registered vehicles; adjustment of fees and registration periods
by department; rules 

   

 826.023     Fees for cards, plates
and stickers 

   

 826.025     Duplicate or
replacement registration cards 

   

 826.027     Transfer of
registration; withdrawal of vehicle from fleet 

   

 826.029     Temporary proportional
registration permits 

   

 826.031     Registration for
certain vehicles subject to weight mile tax and not otherwise registered 

   

 826.033     Application of other
registration provisions of Oregon Vehicle Code to vehicles registered under
this chapter 

   

 826.035     Registration
identification devices and cards for vehicles registered under ORS 826.031 

   

 826.037     Annual or quarterly
registration under ORS 826.031 

   

 826.039     Refund of certain
registration fees 

   

 826.041     Agents for issuance of
registration and collection of fees 

   

       826.001
Definitions. As
used in this chapter: 

       (1) “Combined
weight” means the total empty weight of all vehicles in a combination plus the
total weight of the load carried on that combination of vehicles. 

       (2) “Commercial
vehicle” means a vehicle that: 

       (a) Is used for
the transportation of persons for compensation or profit; or 

       (b) Is designed
or used primarily for the transportation of property. 

       (3) “Department”
means the Department of Transportation. [Formerly 768.001] 

   

       826.003 Rules. The Department of Transportation
may adopt rules regarding registration records for vehicles registered under
this chapter. [1995 c.733 §82b] 

   

       826.005
Authority for reciprocal registration agreements; permitted provisions;
requirements; limitations. 
(1) The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements with the duly
authorized representatives of any jurisdiction that issues registration to
establish reciprocal privileges or registration exemptions for vehicles as
described in this section. An agreement entered into by the department under
the authority granted by this section may establish exemptions from
proportional registration fees. 

       (2) An agreement
shall only grant the privileges, benefits and exemptions to a vehicle or the
registrant of a vehicle if the vehicle is any of the following: 

       (a) Registered in
the jurisdiction where the person registering the vehicle has a legal
residence. 

       (b) A commercial
vehicle registered in a jurisdiction where the commercial enterprise in which
the vehicle is used has a place of business. To qualify under this paragraph,
the vehicle must be assigned to the place of business and the place of business
must be the place from which or in which the vehicle is most frequently
dispatched, garaged, serviced, maintained, operated or otherwise controlled. 

       (c) A commercial
vehicle registered in a jurisdiction where the vehicle has been registered
because of an agreement between two jurisdictions or a declaration issued by
any jurisdiction. 

       (3) An agreement
shall retain the right of the department to make the final determination as to
the proper place of registration of a vehicle when there is a dispute or doubt
concerning the proper place of registration. An agreement shall retain the right
of the department to confer with the departments of other jurisdictions
affected when making a determination under this subsection. 

       (4) An agreement
shall not provide for any benefit, exemption or privilege with respect to fuel
taxes, use fuel taxes, weight mile taxes or any other fees or taxes levied or
assessed against the use of highways or use or ownership of vehicles except
registration taxes, fees and requirements. 

       (5) An agreement
must provide that any vehicle registered in this state will receive a similar
kind or degree of exemptions, benefits and privileges when operated in another
jurisdiction that is party to the agreement as vehicles registered in the other
jurisdiction receive when operated in this state. 

       (6) An agreement,
in the judgment of the department, shall be in the best interest of this state
and its citizens, shall be fair and equitable to this state and its citizens
and shall be determined on the basis and recognition of benefits that accrue to
the economy of this state from the uninterrupted flow of commerce. 

       (7) An agreement
may authorize a vehicle that would otherwise be required to be registered in
one jurisdiction to be registered in another jurisdiction without losing any
benefit, exemption or privilege under the agreement if the vehicle is operated
from a base located in the other jurisdiction. 

       (8) An agreement
may allow the lessee or lessor of a vehicle, subject to the terms and
conditions of the lease, to receive benefits, exemptions and privileges under
the agreement. 

       (9) An agreement
may authorize the department to suspend or cancel any exceptions, benefits or
privileges granted to any person under the agreement if the person violates any
of the terms or conditions of the agreement or violates any law or rule of this
state relating to vehicles. 

       (10) All
agreements shall be in writing and filed with the department within 10 days
after execution or the effective date of the agreement, whichever is later. 

       (11) An agreement
may be a limited type agreement with any state bordering this state as
described in this subsection. An agreement described under this subsection is
subject to all of the following: 

       (a) The benefits,
exemptions and privileges under the agreement shall only be extended to
vehicles or a class of vehicles as specified in the agreement. 

       (b) The agreement
shall be applicable only within an area in each state that is situated along
the boundary between the states and that is substantially equal in size. 

       (c) The usage
permitted of the vehicles in the two areas shall be as substantially equal as
may be practicable. 

       (d) The areas and
usage subject to the agreement shall be described in the agreement. 

       (e) Proportional
registration shall not be required under the agreement. 

       (f) The agreement
shall comply with other mandatory provisions of this section and may contain
any other provisions described under this section. 

       (g) A vehicle
operating under the agreement may be required to obtain a permit under ORS
803.610. 

       (12) An agreement
may require the display or submission of evidence of registration for any
vehicle operating under the agreement. [Formerly 768.003] 

   

       826.007
Authority for proportional registration agreements; permitted provisions;
requirements; limitations; rules. 
The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements with the duly
authorized representatives of any jurisdiction that issues out-of-state
registration to provide for proportional registration of vehicles and for the
apportionment of registration fees and other fixed fees and taxes on vehicles
proportionally registered in this state and the other jurisdiction. All of the
following apply to an agreement established under authority granted by this
section: 

       (1) An agreement
may provide proportional registration only for commercial vehicles that are
engaged in interjurisdictional commerce or combined interjurisdictional and
intrajurisdictional commerce. 

       (2) An agreement
may provide for proportional registration for vehicles individually or in
fleets but must comply with the requirements for proportional registration
under ORS 826.009 for all proportionally registered vehicles and with the
requirements under ORS 826.011 for all proportionally registered fleets. 

       (3) An agreement
may include provisions necessary to facilitate the administration of
proportional registration. 

       (4) Any
apportionment of registration fees and other fixed vehicle fees or taxes may be
made on a basis commensurate with and determined on the miles traveled on and
use made of the highways of this state as compared with the miles traveled on
and use made of other jurisdictions’ highways, or may be made on any other
equitable basis of apportionment. 

       (5) No agreement
shall contain any provision that requires a vehicle to be proportionally
registered if the vehicle is: 

       (a) Registered by
this state; 

       (b) Operating in
this state under any vehicle permit that allows operation of an unregistered
vehicle; or 

       (c) Legally
operated in this state under an exemption provided under ORS 803.305. 

       (6) Nothing in an
agreement shall affect the right of the department to adopt rules as described
in this subsection. The department may adopt any rules the department deems
necessary to effectuate and administer the provisions of the agreement. 

       (7) An agreement
shall only provide for proportional registration of vehicles if the vehicle is
any of the following: 

       (a) Registered in
the jurisdiction where the person registering the vehicle has a legal residence. 

       (b) Registered in
a jurisdiction where the commercial enterprise in which the vehicle is used has
a place of business where the vehicle has been assigned and from which or in
which the vehicle is most frequently dispatched, garaged, serviced, maintained,
operated or otherwise controlled. 

       (c) Registered in
a jurisdiction where the vehicle has been registered because of an agreement
between two jurisdictions or a declaration issued by any jurisdiction. 

       (8) An agreement
shall retain the right of the department to make the final determination as to
the proper place of registration of a vehicle when there is a dispute or doubt
concerning the proper place of registration. An agreement shall retain the right
of the department to confer with the departments of other jurisdictions
affected when making a determination under this subsection. 

       (9) An agreement
may provide that the department may deny any person further benefits under the
agreement until all fees or taxes have been paid if the department determines
that the person should have proportionally registered more vehicles in this
state or paid additional fees or taxes on vehicles proportionally registered in
this state. 

       (10) An agreement
may provide for arrangements with agencies of this state or other jurisdictions
for joint audits of registrants of proportionally registered vehicles and for
the exchange of audit information on persons who have proportionally registered
vehicles. 

       (11) An agreement
may authorize a vehicle that would otherwise be required to be registered in
one jurisdiction to be registered in another jurisdiction without losing any
benefits under the agreement if the vehicle is operated from a base located in
the other jurisdiction. 

       (12) An agreement
may allow the lessee or lessor of a vehicle, subject to the terms and
conditions of the lease, to receive benefits of proportional registration under
the agreement. 

       (13) An agreement
may authorize the department to suspend or cancel any benefits under the
agreement if the person violates any of the terms or conditions of the
agreement or violates any law or rule of this state relating to vehicles. 

       (14) All
agreements shall be in writing and shall be filed with the department within 10
days after execution or the effective date of the agreement, whichever is
later. 

       (15) Vehicles
that are proportionally registered under an agreement, whether individually or
in a fleet, are fully registered in this state for purposes of ORS 803.300 and
any other portion of the vehicle code and are accorded the same privileges and
duties as other vehicles registered in this state even though the vehicle may
have primary registration in some other jurisdiction. This subsection does not
grant authority required for intrastate movement where such authority is
required under ORS chapter 825. Such authority must be granted in accordance
with ORS chapter 825. 

       (16) An agreement
may only provide the benefits of proportional registration to a vehicle that is
registered either proportionally or otherwise in at least one other
jurisdiction in addition to this one. 

       (17) Nothing in
an agreement shall affect the right of the department to act under this
subsection. The department may refuse to issue proportional registration in
this state for vehicles from jurisdictions that do not grant similar privileges
for vehicles from this state. 

       (18) An agreement
shall not provide for any benefit, exemption or privilege with respect to fuel
taxes, use fuel taxes, weight mile taxes or any other fees or taxes levied or
assessed against the use of highways or use or ownership of vehicles except registration
taxes, fees and requirements. 

       (19) An agreement
may control the requirements for type, manner of display, number and other
provisions relating to registration plates, registration cards or other proof
of registration for vehicles that are subject to the agreement. [Formerly
768.005] 

   

       826.008
Certain records not public. 
(1) The following are not public records unless the public interest requires
disclosure in the particular instance: 

       (a) Mileage
information required to be filed with the Department of Transportation under
agreements authorized by ORS 826.007. 

       (b) Information
collected by the department from a motor carrier for the purpose of conducting
an audit under an agreement authorized by ORS 826.007. 

       (2) A motor
carrier to whom the information pertains, or a person who has written
permission from the carrier, may inspect information described in subsection
(1) of this section. 

       (3) The
department, upon request or as required by law, shall disclose information from
the records described in subsection (1) of this section to a government agency
for use in carrying out its governmental functions. [1997 c.501 §4] 

   

       826.009
Proportional registration of commercial vehicles. Proportional registration allows
commercial vehicles to comply with registration requirements of more than one
jurisdiction and to have registration fees, taxes or other fixed fees
apportioned among the jurisdictions in which the vehicles are being operated. A
vehicle may be registered under proportional registration if the vehicle
qualifies for proportional registration under an agreement entered into under
ORS 826.007. If a vehicle is going to be proportionally registered as part of a
fleet, ORS 826.011 must be complied with in addition to this section. A vehicle
is registered in this state if the vehicle is proportionally registered under
this section. The following apply to proportional registration: 

       (1) The terms of
an agreement established under ORS 826.007 control all of the provisions of
proportional registration, including but not limited to the following, except
as otherwise provided by this section: 

       (a)
Qualification. 

       (b) Apportionment
of fees, taxes and other fixed fees. 

       (c) Application
and information required. 

       (d) Requirements
for type, manner of display, number or any other provision relating to
registration plates, registration cards and other proof of registration. 

       (e) Any other
provision relating to the registration of proportionally registered vehicles. 

       (2) When
initially registered, the registration fees for vehicles registered under this
section may be reduced according to the schedule provided under ORS 826.021. 

       (3) The
registration period for proportionally registered vehicles is a period of four
consecutive quarters. The period begins on the first day of any calendar
quarter and ends on the last day of the fourth consecutive quarter. All
vehicles within a proportionally registered fleet shall be registered for the
same registration period. Each carrier may select the calendar quarter in which
the registration will begin except that, if necessary for administrative
convenience, the Department of Transportation may require a carrier to adopt a
registration year chosen by the department. 

       (4) The
department may issue appropriate registration cards, stickers, permits, tabs,
plates or other suitable identification devices the department considers
convenient for proportionally registered vehicles. The fees for such stickers,
permits, tabs or plates are as provided under ORS 826.023. 

       (5) Any applicant
whose application for proportional registration under this section has been
accepted by the department shall preserve the records on which the application
is based for a period of four years following the year or the period upon which
said application is based. Upon request of the department, the applicant shall
make such records available to the department at its office for audit as to
accuracy of mileage, number of vehicles, weights, computations and payment of
fees or shall pay the reasonable costs of an audit at the home office of the
applicant by a duly appointed representative of the department. An applicant
shall comply with any audit provisions under the agreement allowing the
registration. 

       (6) If a
provision concerning the registration of vehicles is not provided under the
agreement or under this section, provisions of the vehicle code applicable to
registration shall be applicable to proportionally registered vehicles. 

       (7) If a vehicle
qualifies for proportional registration, the department may issue temporary
proportional registration permits under ORS 826.029 to allow operation of the
vehicles pending issuance of evidence of proportional registration. 

       (8) The
department may allow a carrier to operate on expired registration plates and
registration for up to one extra quarter if the renewal application has been
submitted and the required fees for registration have been paid on or before
the last day of the registration period for the vehicles. The extension of time
allowed by this subsection shall be granted only if the department determines
that the extension is necessary for the administrative convenience of the
department. 

       (9) Vehicles
registered and identified under this section shall be deemed to be fully
registered in this state for any type of movement or operation, except that in
these instances in which a grant of authority is required for intrastate
movement or operation, no such vehicle shall be operated in intrastate commerce
in this state unless the owner thereof has been granted intrastate authority or
right by the department and unless said vehicle is being operated in conformity
with such authority and rights. 

       (10) Registration
cards may be issued for proportionally registered vehicles. Registration cards
issued for proportionally registered vehicles shall be carried on the vehicle
at all times or, in the case of a combination of vehicles, the registration card
for a trailer may be carried in the vehicle supplying the motive power. 

       (11) In
accordance with provisions of the agreement establishing proportional
registration, the department may suspend or cancel the exemptions, benefits or
privileges granted thereunder to a person who violates any of the conditions or
terms of such agreements or arrangements or who violates the laws of this state
relating to vehicles or regulations lawfully promulgated thereunder. 

       (12) A vehicle
may be registered under this section prior to issuance of a certificate of
title for the vehicle. [Formerly 768.007] 

   

       826.010
Quarterly payment of registration fees for vehicles registered under ORS
826.009. (1)
Registration fees for commercial vehicles registered under the proportional
registration provisions of ORS 826.009 may be paid quarterly provided that: 

       (a) The amount of
Oregon apportioned registration fees for the carrier exceeds $1,000 per year;
and 

       (b) The
registration fees are paid in equal quarterly installments. 

       (2) A carrier
that pays in quarterly installments under this section shall pay a $4
administrative processing fee with the first quarter payment for each year that
the carrier pays in quarterly installments. 

       (3) Authorization
for quarterly payment does not affect the registration period specified in ORS
826.009. [2003 c.618 §35] 

   

       826.011
Proportional fleet registration. 
Any registrant of a fleet of commercial vehicles that are operated in this
state and in other jurisdictions may register the fleet under proportional
fleet registration under this section in lieu of registering the vehicles as
provided under the vehicle code if the fleet qualifies for proportional fleet
registration under this section. Proportional fleet registration allows fleets
of commercial vehicles to comply with registration requirements of more than
one jurisdiction and to have registration fees, taxes or other fixed fees
apportioned among the jurisdictions in which vehicles from the fleet are being
operated. The following apply to proportional fleet registration: 

       (1) A vehicle may
be registered under proportional fleet registration if the vehicle qualifies
for proportional registration under an agreement entered into under ORS 826.007
and if the vehicle is part of a fleet that qualifies under this section. 

       (2) Except as
provided in this section, the terms of an agreement established under ORS
826.007 and the provisions of ORS 826.009 control all of the provisions of
proportional fleet registration, including but not limited to, the following: 

       (a)
Qualification. 

       (b) Apportionment
of fees, taxes and other fixed fees. 

       (c) Application
and information required. 

       (d) Requirements
for type, manner of display, number or any other provision relating to
registration plates, registration cards and other proof of registration. 

       (e) Any other
provision relating to the registration or titling of proportionally registered
vehicles. 

       (3) In order to
register vehicles under proportional fleet registration under this section, the
vehicles must be part of a fleet that includes one or more commercial vehicles
as designated by the Department of Transportation. 

       (4) The initial
application for proportional fleet registration shall be completed according to
interstate agreements or administrative rules. 

       (5) The
department may issue any distinctive proof of registration under this section
the department considers convenient. The fee for the issuance of plates,
stickers or other suitable identification for proportionally registered fleets
is as provided under ORS 826.023. 

       (6) Vehicles
acquired by the registrant after the commencement of the registration period
and subsequently added to a proportionally registered fleet shall be
proportionally registered according to interstate agreements or administrative
rules. 

       (7) If any
vehicle is withdrawn from a proportionally registered fleet, the registrant of
such fleet shall so notify the department on appropriate forms to be prescribed
by the department. The department may require the registrant to surrender
proportional registration cards and such other identification devices issued
with respect to such vehicle as the department may deem advisable. Procedures
for obtaining credit for fees paid on vehicles that are withdrawn from a
proportionally registered fleet are provided under ORS 826.027. 

       (8) In addition
to any grounds for denial of proportional registration benefits under ORS
826.009, or an agreement under ORS 826.007, the department may deny the
registrant of a proportionally registered fleet the right of any further
benefits under proportional registration if the department determines that the
person should have prorated more vehicles in this state. The denial under this
subsection may continue until the fees for such additional vehicle or vehicles
that have been prorated have been paid. [Formerly 768.009] 

   

       826.013
Registration weight. 
(1) Vehicles registered under ORS 826.009, 826.011 or 826.031 are required to
establish a registration weight. 

       (2) Registration
weight is established for the following purposes: 

       (a) The
registration weight is the weight used in the declaration of weight under ORS
826.015 to determine the registration fees under ORS 826.017 and ORS 803.420
for vehicles required to establish registration weight under this section. 

       (b) A vehicle
that is required to establish registration weight by this section is in
violation of ORS 803.315 if the vehicle is operated on a highway of this state
at a weight in excess of the registration weight except when carrying a load: 

       (A) Under the
provisions of ORS 376.305 to 376.390; 

       (B) Of over
105,500 pounds combined weight under a variance permit issued under ORS
818.200; 

       (C) Under a
registration weight trip permit issued under ORS 803.600; or 

       (D) Consisting of
towed motor vehicles. 

       (3) Registration
weight is established at the time of registration and whenever the vehicle has
been altered or reconstructed by furnishing a declaration of weight described
under ORS 826.015 that contains a statement of the maximum combined gross
weight at which the vehicle will be operated on the highways of this state
except when carrying loads described under subsection (2)(b) of this section.
The maximum registration weight for any vehicle required to establish a
registration weight under this section is 105,500 pounds. Vehicles operating at
weights above 105,500 pounds will operate under a variance permit issued under
ORS 818.200. 

       (4) The weight of
a camper, a trailing manufactured structure or the following trailing vehicles
should not be included in the registration weight: 

       (a) Trailers with
a loaded weight of 8,000 pounds or less. 

       (b) Special use
trailers, travel trailers and fixed load vehicles. 

       (c) Towed motor
vehicles. [Formerly 768.011; 2003 c.655 §142] 

   

       826.015
Declaration of weight. 
(1) For vehicles registered under ORS 826.031 or under proportional
registration pursuant to ORS 826.009 or 826.011, the declaration of weight
shall contain the combined weight of the vehicle. 

       (2) For
commercial buses, the declaration of weight shall contain the unloaded weight
of the vehicle plus the unloaded weight of any bus trailer to be used in
combination with the vehicle. The declaration shall also indicate the number of
persons, including the driver, to be carried in the vehicle, plus the number of
persons to be carried on any bus trailer to be used in combination with the
vehicle. [Formerly 768.013; 2017 c.45 §4] 

   

       826.017
Registration fees for proportionally registered vehicles. Registration fees for vehicles
registered under ORS 826.009, 826.011 or 826.031 are as provided in ORS 803.420
for vehicles of the same class. The fees are for an entire registration period
and are payable when a vehicle is registered and upon renewal of registration.
The Department of Transportation shall apportion any fee under this section to
reflect the number of quarters registered. [Formerly 768.015] 

   

       826.019
International Registration Plan fee. 
(1) In addition to any other fee collected for registration, the Department of
Transportation shall collect an International Registration Plan fee from each
applicant for proportional registration under this chapter. 

       (2) The amount of
the fee required by this section shall be calculated annually by the
department. The total fees collected by the department under this section may
not exceed the amount of any annual fee for membership in the International
Registration Plan. The department shall determine the amount to be paid by each
applicant by dividing the amount of any membership fee by the total number of
applications for proportional registration submitted in the previous calendar
year. 

       (3) Fees
collected under this section shall be used to pay any membership fees required
by the International Registration Plan agreement so long as the state is a
signatory to the agreement. [1995 c.145 §2] 

   

       826.021
Proration of fees for proportionally registered vehicles; adjustment of fees
and registration periods by department; rules. (1) For vehicles that are
initially registered under proportional registration under ORS 826.009 or
826.011, the Department of Transportation shall prorate the fees as provided in
this subsection according to the registration period elected by the registrant
and approved by the department for the vehicle or fleet of vehicles. The
proration of fees under this subsection shall be as follows except that in no
case shall the fee on which Oregon fees are based be less than $10: 

       (a) If the
vehicle is registered after the expiration of the first quarter of the
registration period, three-fourths of the fees shall be used to determine the
Oregon fees. 

       (b) If the
vehicle is registered after the expiration of the first half of the
registration period, one-half of the fees shall be used to determine the Oregon
fees. 

       (c) If the
vehicle is registered after the expiration of three-fourths of the registration
period, one-fourth of the fees shall be used to determine the Oregon fees. 

       (2) The
department, by rule, may adjust registration fees or registration periods for a
vehicle, as is administratively convenient for the department, if: 

       (a) The vehicle
is changed from one type of registration to another type; or 

       (b) Any other
change relating to the registration of the vehicle is made where it would be
administratively convenient for the department to make such adjustments. [Formerly
768.017] 

   

       826.023 Fees
for cards, plates and stickers. 
(1) The fee for issuance of a duplicate or replacement registration card is $3. 

       (2) The fee for
issuance of each original, replacement or duplicate registration plate is $3
and includes a registration card and sticker. 

       (3) The fee for
renewal of a registration plate is $3 and includes a registration card and
sticker. 

       (4) The fee for
issuance of replacement registration stickers is $3. 

       (5) If a second
plate is required for one vehicle, the fee for the plate or for a sticker for
the plate is $3. [Formerly 768.021; 2003 c.753 §2; 2017 c.750 §70] 

   

       826.025
Duplicate or replacement registration cards. The Department of Transportation may issue a
duplicate or replacement registration card when: 

       (1) The
department receives an application indicating the loss, mutilation or
destruction of a registration card; and 

       (2) The fee for
issuance of a duplicate or replacement card under ORS 826.023 is paid to the
department. [Formerly 768.023] 

   

       826.027
Transfer of registration; withdrawal of vehicle from fleet. (1) The registrant of a vehicle
which is proportionally registered under ORS 826.009 or 826.011 shall be
permitted to transfer the registration plates from the vehicle to a like
vehicle to be similarly used if the vehicle is destroyed or permanently withdrawn
from service within this state. To make a transfer of registration under this
section, the registrant of the vehicle shall pay the Department of
Transportation a registration transfer fee established under ORS 826.023, file
a written statement indicating the withdrawal or destruction with the
department and surrender the registration card for the vehicle. The department
shall issue a registration card without payment of further fee. If the weight
on the certificate of weight of the vehicle receiving the transferred
registration exceeds that of the vehicle destroyed or withdrawn, the registrant
must pay registration fees on the increased weight. 

       (2) If a vehicle
is permanently withdrawn from a fleet that is proportionally registered under
ORS 826.009 or 826.011 because it has been destroyed, sold or otherwise
completely removed from the service of the registrant, the department shall
provide credit for the unused portion of the fees paid according to terms of
interstate agreements or in a manner defined by rule. In no event shall any
such amount be subject to refund. [Formerly 768.025] 

   

       826.029
Temporary proportional registration permits. The Department of Transportation may issue temporary
proportional registration permits to qualifying persons pending registration of
vehicles under proportional registration under ORS 826.009 or proportional
fleet registration under ORS 826.011 and issuance of appropriate identification
devices. [Formerly 768.027] 

   

       826.031
Registration for certain vehicles subject to weight mile tax and not otherwise
registered. (1)
The owner of a vehicle that is subject to the tax imposed under ORS 825.474 and
that is not registered under the proportional registration provisions of this
chapter and is not registered in any other jurisdiction shall register the
vehicle with the Department of Transportation if the vehicle is to be operated
in this state. Registration under this section is in lieu of registration under
ORS chapter 803. 

       (2) The
department shall determine the form of application for registration and renewal
of registration and may require any information that it determines necessary to
facilitate the registration process. 

       (3) A vehicle
registered under this section is subject to the insurance requirements of ORS
825.160 and not to the financial responsibility requirements of ORS chapter
806. Proof of compliance with financial responsibility requirements as
specified in ORS 803.460 is not required for renewal of registration of a
vehicle under this section. 

       (4) A vehicle
registered under this section shall be deemed to be fully registered in this
state for any type of movement or operation, except that in those instances in
which a grant of authority is required for intrastate movement or operation, no
such vehicle shall be operated in intrastate commerce in this state unless the
owner thereof has been granted intrastate authority or right by the department
and unless the vehicle is being operated in conformity with such authority and
rights. 

       (5) A vehicle may
be registered under this section prior to a certificate of title being issued
for the vehicle but nothing in this section affects any requirement that a
certificate of title be issued. [Formerly 768.029; 1997 c.249 §269; 2019 c.312 §15] 

   

       826.033
Application of other registration provisions of Oregon Vehicle Code to vehicles
registered under this chapter. 
The provisions of ORS chapter 803 concerning the registration of vehicles apply
to vehicles registered under this chapter, unless a specific provision of this
chapter differs from a comparable provision of ORS chapter 803. [Formerly
768.031] 

   

       826.035
Registration identification devices and cards for vehicles registered under ORS
826.031. (1) The
Department of Transportation may issue appropriate registration, stickers,
plates or other suitable identification devices the department considers
convenient for vehicles registered under ORS 826.031. The fees for such
stickers or plates are as provided in ORS 826.023. 

       (2) Registration
cards may be issued for vehicles registered under ORS 826.031. Registration
cards issued for the vehicles shall be carried on the vehicle at all times. [Formerly
768.033] 

   

       826.037 Annual
or quarterly registration under ORS 826.031. (1) Vehicles registered under ORS 826.031 may be
registered under staggered registration. 

       (2) For purposes
of this section, staggered registration starts on the first day of any calendar
quarter and runs through the last day of the last calendar quarter in the
registration period. The number of calendar quarters in a registration period
is elected by the vehicle owner at the time of registration except that a
person may not establish a staggered registration period of more than four
quarters. 

       (3) The
Department of Transportation may allow a carrier registered under ORS 826.031
to operate on expired registration plates and registration for up to one extra
quarter if the renewal application has been submitted and the required fees for
registration have been paid on or before the last day of the registration
period for the vehicles. The extension of time allowed by this subsection shall
be granted only if the department determines that the extension is necessary
for the administrative convenience of the department. 

       (4) Nothing in
this section requires the department to issue registration plates that are
valid for less than a one-year period. An election by a carrier to operate in
nonconsecutive quarters of a four-quarter period does not by itself require the
carrier to renew registration plates. [Formerly 768.035] 

   

       826.039 Refund
of certain registration fees. 
(1) The Department of Transportation shall grant a refund of that portion of
the registration fee applicable to the unexpired portion of the registration
period for a vehicle described in ORS 826.031 if the vehicle is sold and: 

       (a) The seller is
an individual and does not intend to remain in, or within one year to reenter,
business as a motor carrier; 

       (b) Neither the
selling person if an individual nor substantially the same group of persons if
a group intends to register, or within one year of the date of sale registers,
an assumed business name under the provisions of ORS chapter 648 for the
purpose of doing business as a motor carrier; or 

       (c) Neither the
selling person if an individual nor substantially the same group of persons if
a group intends to organize, or within one year from the date of sale
organizes, as a corporation under the provisions of ORS chapter 60 for the
purpose of doing business as a motor carrier. 

       (2) If the
department grants a refund to a person or entity that attempts to reenter
business as a motor carrier within one year of the date of the sale that led to
the refund, the department may refuse to issue authority to the person or
entity until the amount of the refund has been repaid. [Formerly 768.037] 

   

       826.041 Agents
for issuance of registration and collection of fees. The Department of Transportation
may appoint agents to issue registration and to collect any fees required by
this chapter. The department shall prescribe the duties and compensation of
such agents and may require them to give bonds, in such amount as the
department determines appropriate, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. [Formerly 768.039] 

 _______________ 

   

 TITLE
60 

 CHAPTERS
827 TO 829 

 [Reserved
for expansion] 

 

 

 
