 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
652 — Hours; Wages; Wage Claims; Records 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 HOURS; WAGES; WAGE CLAIMS; RECORDS 

   

 LABOR, EMPLOYMENT; UNLAWFUL
DISCRIMINATION 

   

 HOURS OF LABOR 

   

 652.010     Declaration of public
policy concerning maximum working hours in certain industries 

   

 652.020     Maximum working hours
in certain industries; overtime hours and pay; exemptions; penalties 

   

 652.030     Enforcement of ORS
652.010 and 652.020 dependent upon like laws in other states 

   

 652.035     Violations of certain
laws relating to maximum working hours and minimum employment conditions;
remedies; retaliation prohibited 

   

 652.040     Maximum working hours
in mines; exceptions 

   

 652.050     Definitions for ORS
652.050 to 652.080 

   

 652.060     Maximum working hours
for firefighters 

   

 652.070     Overtime pay for
firefighters 

   

 652.080     Computing hours on duty
for purposes of ORS 652.060 and 652.070 

   

 652.100     False information
related to hours worked or compensation received by employees; prohibited acts
by employer; employee right of action; remedies for violation; penalties 

   

 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF WAGES
GENERALLY 

   

 652.110     Method of paying
employees; agreement on method of payment; revocation of agreement 

   

 652.120     Establishing regular
payday; pay intervals; agreement to pay wages at future date 

   

 652.125     Bond required when
failure to make timely wage payment occurs; court to enjoin business of
employer failing to provide bond 

   

 652.130     Payment of wages due
persons employed on piece work scale or quantity basis in forest product
industries; furnishing statement of scale or quantity produced 

   

 652.140     Payment of wages on
termination of employment; exception for collective bargaining 

   

 652.145     Payment of wages for
seasonal farmworkers 

   

 652.150     Penalty wage for
failure to pay wages on termination of employment 

   

 652.160     Payment in case of
dispute over wages 

   

 652.165     Rules for wage
collection and payment 

   

 652.170     Payment of wages in
case of strikes 

   

 652.190     Payment of wages to
surviving spouse or dependent children 

   

 652.195     Liability for
dishonored check for payment of wages; penalties 

   

 652.197     Joint and several
liability for unpaid wages owed to unrepresented employees performing labor
under a construction contract 

   

 652.198     Subcontractor
recordkeeping requirements related to employee wages on construction projects;
retainage permitted for noncompliance 

   

 652.200     Attorney fee in action
for wages 

   

 652.210     Definitions for ORS
652.210 to 652.235 

   

 652.220     Prohibition of
discriminatory wage rates based on protected class; exceptions; employer not to
discriminate against employee who is complainant 

   

 652.230     Employee right of
action against employer for unpaid wages and damages; statute of limitations;
notice requirement 

   

 652.235     Motion to disallow
award of compensatory and punitive damages; equal-pay analysis of employer’s
pay practices; remedies 

   

 652.240     Paying wage lower than
that required by statute or contract prohibited 

   

 652.250     Public employee’s wages
as affected by absence to engage in search or rescue operation 

   

 652.260     Payment to home health
care staff and home hospice care staff providing home health or hospice
services; rules 

   

 ENFORCEMENT OF WAGE CLAIMS 

 (Generally) 

   

 652.310     Definitions of employer
and employee 

   

 652.320     Definitions for ORS
652.310 to 652.414 

   

 652.330     Powers and duties of
commissioner in enforcing wage claims; parties to wage claim action 

   

 652.332     Administrative
proceeding for wage claim collection; court enforcement and review; rules 

   

 652.333     Wage claims against
licensed construction contractors and businesses; notice requirements 

   

 652.335     Liability of liquor
dispenser licensee for wage claims of certain individuals 

   

 652.340     Requiring bond of
employer 

   

 652.355     Prohibition of
discrimination because of wage claim or refusal to work additional hours;
remedy 

   

 652.360     Contract exempting
employer from liability or penalty not valid; exceptions 

   

 652.370     Jurisdiction of courts;
proceedings in name of state 

   

 652.380     Remedies cumulative;
effect of payment or tender by employer after proceeding commenced 

   

 652.390     Deduction of costs from
wage claims; collection fees; assignment of wage claims 

   

 652.400     Deposit of moneys in
Wage Collection Account; payment to persons entitled thereto 

   

 652.405     Disposition of wages
collected by commissioner when payment cannot be made to person entitled
thereto 

   

 (Wage Security Fund) 

   

 652.409     Wage Security Fund; use 

   

 652.414     Procedure for payment
from fund; lien against personal property of employer; penalties; rules 

   

 (Reciprocal Enforcement of Wage
Claims) 

   

 652.420     Definitions for ORS
652.420 to 652.445 

   

 652.425     Authority of
commissioner to enter into agreements with other states for reciprocal
enforcement of wage claims 

   

 652.430     Assigning wage claim to
labor bureau of another state 

   

 652.435     Accepting assignments
of wage claims from labor bureau of another state 

   

 652.440     Retention by
commissioner or labor bureau of percentage of funds collected 

   

 652.445     Deposit of moneys in
Wage Collection Account 

   

 PRIORITY OF WAGE CLAIMS 

   

 652.500     Receiver to pay accrued
wages; payment of employees; receiver’s certificates 

   

 652.510     Payment of wage claims
by receivers, assignees or court; filing statement of wages due 

   

 652.515     Effect of Oregon
Receivership Code 

   

 652.520     Form of statement of
wage claim 

   

 652.530     Serving copy of
statement; report to court; order of payment 

   

 652.540     Exception to claim;
legal action on claim 

   

 652.550     Payment of claims
prerequisite to discharge of attachment or execution, assignee or receiver, or
to abandonment of seizure or sale 

   

 652.560     Costs and attorney fees 

   

 652.570     Priority of wage claims
over transfers in payment of preexisting obligations; payment and subrogation
of transferee 

   

 STATEMENTS RELATING TO EMPLOYEE’S
SALARY AND DEDUCTIONS 

   

 (Generally) 

   

 652.610     Itemized statement of
amounts and purposes of deductions; timely payment to recipient of amounts
deducted; employer duty to provide written explanation of earnings and
deductions 

   

 652.615     Remedy for violation of
ORS 652.610 

   

 652.620     Statement of yearly
compensation on request of employee 

   

 652.625     Deductions for
erroneous overpayment of wages to public employees; written statements required 

   

 (Agricultural Workers) 

   

 652.630     Definitions for ORS
652.630 to 652.640 

   

 652.635     Producers to post
certain terms of employment 

   

 652.640     Itemized statement of
compensation and deductions required 

   

 FEES OR DEDUCTIONS FOR MEDICAL CARE 

   

 652.710     Fees collected by
employer for medical care contracts are trust funds; priority on liquidation;
civil penalty; rules 

   

 652.720     Prohibited use by
employer of fees for medical care contracts withheld from employee wages 

   

 PERSONNEL RECORDS 

   

 652.750     Inspection of records
by employee; furnishing copy to employee; disposition of record on termination
of employment; charge for copies; public safety officer records 

   

 652.752     Federal inspections of
employee verification records; employer to provide employees with advance
notice of inspection 

   

 652.753     Commissioner of Bureau
of Labor and Industries to generate notice template for employers 

   

 EARNED INCOME TAX CREDITS 

   

 652.755     Rules regarding notice
to employees about state and federal earned income tax credits 

   

 PENALTIES 

   

 652.900     Civil penalties 

   

 652.990     Criminal penalties 

   

 HOURS OF LABOR 

   

       652.010
Declaration of public policy concerning maximum working hours in certain
industries. (1) It
is the public policy of this state that no person shall be hired, nor permitted
to work for wages, under any conditions or terms, for longer hours or days of
service than is consistent with the person’s health and physical well-being and
ability to promote the general welfare by the person’s increasing usefulness as
a healthy and intelligent citizen. 

       (2) It hereby is
declared that the working of any person more than 10 hours in one day in any
mill, factory or other manufacturing establishment or the working of any person
more than eight hours, exclusive of one hour, more or less, in one day, or more
than 48 hours in one workweek, as defined in ORS 652.020, in sawmills, planing
mills, shingle mills and logging camps is injurious to the physical health and
well-being of such person, and tends to prevent the person from acquiring that
degree of intelligence that is necessary to make the person a useful and
desirable citizen of the state. [Amended by 2017 c.685 §13] 

   

       652.020
Maximum working hours in certain industries; overtime hours and pay;
exemptions; penalties. 
(1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Machinery”
means material-handling equipment and power-driven machines powered by
electricity, nuclear or fossil fuels, hydroelectric power, geothermal power or
another power source other than by human hand, foot or breath. 

       (b) “Manufacturing”
means the process of using machinery to transform materials, substances or
components into new products. 

       (c) “Manufacturing
establishment” means an establishment engaged in manufacturing. 

       (d) “Perishable
product” means any product that may spoil, deteriorate or undergo other
material changes that render it unsuitable for the use for which it was
produced. “Perishable product” includes agricultural crops, meat and fish. 

       (e) “Undue
hardship period” means the period of time during which perishable product must
be processed after harvesting, slaughter or catch. 

       (f) “Workweek”
means a fixed period of time established by an employer that reflects a
regularly recurring period of 168 hours or seven consecutive 24-hour periods. A
workweek may begin on any day of the week and any hour of the day and need not
coincide with a calendar week. The beginning of the workweek may be changed if
the change is intended to be permanent and is not designed to evade overtime
requirements. 

       (2)(a) Except as
provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection and subsection (3) of
this section, an employer may not require or permit an employee employed in any
mill, factory or other manufacturing establishment in this state to work more
than: 

       (A) 10 hours in
any one day; or 

       (B) 55 hours in
any one workweek. 

       (b) An employer
may permit an employee described in paragraph (a) of this subsection to work up
to 60 hours in one workweek if the employee requests or consents in writing to
work more than 55 hours in the workweek. 

       (c)
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this subsection, during the period of time
that an employer is eligible for an undue hardship period exemption under
subsection (4) of this section, an employer may permit an employee described in
paragraph (a) of this subsection to work: 

       (A) Up to 84
hours per workweek for four workweeks; and 

       (B) Up to 80
hours per workweek for the remainder of the undue hardship period. 

       (d) Except as
provided in subsection (3) of this section, an employer may not require or
permit an employee employed in a sawmill, planing mill, shingle mill or logging
camp to work more than: 

       (A) Eight hours,
exclusive of one hour, more or less, in one day; or 

       (B) 48 hours in
one workweek. 

       (3)(a) An
employee may work overtime up to three hours more than the applicable limit for
the maximum allowable hours of employment in one day as described in subsection
(2) of this section. 

       (b) An employer
shall compensate an employee who works overtime hours described in paragraph
(a) of this subsection at one and one-half times the employee’s regular rate of
pay for each overtime hour or portion of an hour the employee works. 

       (c) An employer
shall calculate an employee’s overtime compensation on a daily basis under
paragraph (b) of this subsection and on a weekly basis under ORS 653.261 (1)
and pay the greater of the two amounts if, during the same workweek, the
employee works more than: 

       (A) The applicable
limit for the maximum allowable hours of employment in one day as described in
subsection (2) of this section; and 

       (B) Forty hours
in one workweek as described in ORS 653.261 (1). 

       (d) An employer
that makes an overtime payment to an employee pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
subsection satisfies the overtime compensation requirements under this
subsection and ORS 653.261 (1). 

       (4)(a) An
employer is eligible for an undue hardship period exemption from the
restrictions on maximum workweek hours under subsection (2)(a) of this section
if the employer, in the ordinary course of the employer’s business, processes
perishable products. The undue hardship period exemption shall be effective
only during an undue hardship period. An employer may be eligible for more than
one undue hardship period exemption in a calendar year. However, the combined
total duration of the employer’s undue hardship period exemptions may not
exceed 21 workweeks in a calendar year. 

       (b) To claim an
undue hardship period exemption, an employer must provide notice of the undue
hardship period to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries and
obtain written consent from each employee whom the employer will request to
work more than 55 hours in any workweek during the undue hardship period. 

       (c)(A) The notice
the employer sends to the commissioner under paragraph (b) of this subsection
must be in a form prescribed by the commissioner by rule and include a
description of the reasons for the undue hardship period, the start and
expected end dates of the undue hardship period and any other information
required by the commissioner. 

       (B) The employee’s
written consent shall be in a form prescribed by the commissioner by rule and
include: 

       (i) A description
of the employer’s reasons for the undue hardship period; 

       (ii) The start
and expected end dates of the undue hardship period; 

       (iii) A statement
that the employer may require the employee to work up to 84 hours per workweek
for up to four workweeks during the undue hardship period; 

       (iv) A statement
that the employer may require the employee to work up to 80 hours per workweek
for the remainder of the undue hardship period; 

       (v) A statement
that the employee consents to working up to 84 hours per workweek for up to
four workweeks during the undue hardship period and up to 80 hours per workweek
for the remainder of the undue hardship period; 

       (vi) Contact
information for the Bureau of Labor and Industries; and 

       (vii) Any other
information required by the commissioner. 

       (5) An employer
may not: 

       (a) Require any
employee employed in a mill, factory or other manufacturing establishment in
this state to begin a work shift less than 10 hours after the end of the
employee’s previous work shift if the employee’s previous work shift totaled
eight or more hours, unless the employer requires the employee to work
additional hours due to disruptions in business operations caused by a power
outage, major equipment breakdown, severe weather or similar emergency outside
the employer’s control; 

       (b) Require or
permit any employee to work in any place described in this section for more
hours than the hours provided for in this section during any day of 24 hours; 

       (c) Take an
adverse employment action against any employee who is employed in a
manufacturing establishment that is classified within the North American
Industry Classification System under code 3118 and who refuses to work a
mandatory overtime shift unless the employer has provided the employee with at
least five days’ advance notice of the overtime shift, including the date and
time of the overtime shift; 

       (d) Permit an
overseer, superintendent or other agent of the employer to violate this
section; or 

       (e) Coerce an
employee into consenting to work more than 55 hours in a given workweek. 

       (6) This section
does not apply to: 

       (a) An employee
performing work as a member of a logging train crew, as a guard or as a boiler
operator; 

       (b) An employee
engaged in the transportation of workers to and from work; 

       (c) An employee
engaged in the care of quarters or livestock, the conducting of mess halls, the
superintendence and direction of work or the loading and removal of finished
forest product; 

       (d) An employee
when engaged in making necessary repairs or in the case of emergency where life
or property is in imminent danger; or 

       (e) An employee
employed in a mill, factory or other manufacturing establishment whose
principal duties are administrative in nature or who is not otherwise engaged
in the direct processing of goods in the usual course of the employee’s duties. 

       (7) Subsections
(2) to (5) of this section do not apply to employees who are represented by a
labor organization for purposes of collective bargaining with their employer,
provided limits on the required hours of work and overtime payment have been
agreed to between the employer and labor organization, or if no agreement is
reached, then, for the purposes of this subsection, such limits and payments
shall not be deemed to be changed from the previous collective bargaining
agreement between the employer and labor organization unless the employees have
been locked out or are engaged in a strike or the employer has unilaterally
implemented new terms and conditions of employment. 

       (8)(a) In
addition to any other remedy provided by law, an employee has a private cause
of action against an employer if the employer violates subsection (2) or (3) of
this section by requiring the employee to work more than: 

       (A) Three hours
more than the applicable limit for the maximum allowable hours of employment in
one day; or 

       (B) The
applicable limit for the maximum allowable hours of employment in one workweek. 

       (b) If the
employee prevails in an action under this section, the court may enter judgment
against the employer for: 

       (A) Actual
damages or $3,000 per claim, whichever is greater; 

       (B) Equitable
relief; and 

       (C) Liquidated
damages in an amount equal to twice the employee’s overtime wages earned during
the period not allowed under subsection (2) or (3) of this section. 

       (c) In an action
brought under this section, the court may award to the prevailing plaintiff
costs, disbursements and reasonable attorney fees. Any attorney fee agreement
is subject to approval by the court. 

       (9)(a)
Notwithstanding ORS 652.900, in addition to any other penalty provided by law,
the commissioner may assess the following civil penalties against an employer
that the commissioner determines has coerced an employee into consenting to
work more than 55 hours in one workweek: 

       (A) $2,000 per
violation if the employer coerced an employee into consenting under subsection
(2)(b) of this section to work more than 55 hours in any given workweek; or 

       (B) $3,000 per
violation if the employer coerced an employee into consenting under subsection
(4) of this section to work more than 55 hours per workweek in any given
workweek during an undue hardship period. 

       (b) Each
violation described in paragraph (a) of this subsection is a separate and
distinct offense. In the case of a continuing violation, each workweek’s
continuance is a separate and distinct violation. 

       (c) Civil
penalties authorized by this subsection shall be imposed in the manner provided
in ORS 183.745. All sums collected as penalties under this subsection shall be
applied and paid over as provided in ORS 652.900. 

       (10) A violation
of subsection (5)(c) of this section is an unlawful practice under ORS chapter
659A that is subject to enforcement by the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor
and Industries as provided in ORS 659A.820 to 659A.865. [Amended by 1989 c.852 §1;
1991 c.67 §157; 1999 c.59 §190; 2011 c.348 §1; 2017 c.685 §§1,2; 2022 c.22 §1] 

   

       652.030
Enforcement of ORS 652.010 and 652.020 dependent upon like laws in other
states. ORS
652.010 and 652.020 shall not be enforced insofar as they relate to working
hours in sawmills, planing mills, shingle mills and logging camps until laws
containing like provisions regarding working hours in such places of employment
in the States of California, Washington and Idaho become effective in each of
those states respectively. 

   

       652.035
Violations of certain laws relating to maximum working hours and minimum
employment conditions; remedies; retaliation prohibited. (1) Any employee asserting a
violation of ORS 652.020, 653.263 or 653.265 may file a complaint with the
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries under ORS 659A.820 or a
civil action as provided in ORS 659A.885. 

       (2) In addition
to any other damages provided by law, the commissioner may assess a civil
penalty against the employer in the amount of $1,000. 

       (3) The
commissioner shall waive 50 percent of the amount of any civil penalty imposed
by order under this section if the commissioner determines that the employer
paid the full remedy due, not including any civil penalty, within 14 days after
the order imposing the remedy became final by operation of law or on appeal. 

       (4) Civil
penalties authorized by this section shall be imposed in the manner provided in
ORS 183.745. 

       (5) An employer
may not retaliate or in any way discriminate against an individual with respect
to hire or tenure or any other term or condition of employment because the
individual has inquired about the provisions of this section or ORS 652.020,
653.261 or 653.265 or has reported a violation to, or filed a complaint with,
the Bureau of Labor and Industries. [2017 c.685 §11] 

   

       Note: 652.035 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 652
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       652.040
Maximum working hours in mines; exceptions. (1) No person who operates any underground mine
yielding gold or silver or copper or lead or other metal shall permit or
require any person to work in such underground mine for more than eight hours
in any 24 hours. The hours for such employment or work day shall be consecutive
excluding, however, any intermission of time for lunch or meals. 

       (2) In the case
of emergency, where life or property is in imminent danger, persons may work in
such underground mines for a longer time during the continuance of the exigency
or emergency. This section does not apply to mines in their first stages of development,
such as tunnel work to a length of 200 feet, or shaft work to a depth of 150
feet, or to any surface excavation. 

   

       652.050
Definitions for ORS 652.050 to 652.080. As used in ORS 652.050 to 652.080: 

       (1) “Firefighter”
means a person whose principal duties consist of preventing or combating fire
or preventing loss of life or property from fire. 

       (2) “Regularly
organized fire department” means any organization maintained for the purpose of
preventing or combating fire and employing one or more persons on a full-time
basis as firefighters. 

       (3) “Volunteer
firefighter” means a person who performs services as a firefighter for a
regularly organized fire department and whose work hours and work shifts are
voluntary and whose volunteer service is not a condition of employment. [Amended
by 1983 c.319 §1] 

   

       652.060
Maximum working hours for firefighters. (1)(a) No person employed on a full-time basis as a
firefighter by any regularly organized fire department maintained by any
incorporated city, municipality or fire district and that employs not more than
three persons on a full-time basis as firefighters shall be required to be on
regular duty with such fire department more than 72 hours a week. However, any
affected incorporated city, municipality or fire district shall be deemed to
have complied with this paragraph and ORS 652.070 if the hours of regular duty
required of firefighters employed by it average not more than 72 hours a week
over each quarter of the fiscal year of the employing city, municipality or
fire district. 

       (b) No person
employed on a full-time basis as a firefighter by any regularly organized fire
department maintained by any incorporated city, municipality or fire district
and that employs four or more persons on a full-time basis as firefighters
shall be required to be on regular duty with such fire department more than 56
hours a week. However, any affected incorporated city, municipality or fire
district shall be deemed to have complied with this paragraph and ORS 652.070
if the hours of regular duty required of firefighters employed by it average
not more than 56 hours a week over each quarter of the fiscal year of the
employing city, municipality or fire district. 

       (2) In the event
this section shortens the working hours of firefighters employed by any such
city, municipality or fire district, the total wages of such firefighters shall
not for that reason be reduced. [Amended by 1959 c.402 §1; 1969 c.581 §1] 

   

       652.070
Overtime pay for firefighters. 
(1) Every affected incorporated city, municipality and fire district shall put
into effect and maintain a schedule of working hours required of regularly
employed firefighters which shall not be in excess of the average hours
established by ORS 652.060, and which shall provide for at least 48 consecutive
hours off-duty time in each seven-day period. Any affected incorporated city,
municipality or fire district failing so to do shall pay to every regularly
employed firefighter as additional pay for every hour of regular duty required
of and performed by the firefighter over and above the average hours
established by ORS 652.060 a sum equivalent to one and one-half times the
regular hourly rate of pay at the time of such default. However, in the case of
replacement for any authorized leave, vacation or temporary vacancy, regularly
employed firefighters in a department employing four or more persons on a
full-time basis as firefighters may elect to work in excess of 56 hours a week
at not less than their regular hourly rate of pay. 

       (2) Nothing in
subsection (1) of this section requires payment of one and one-half times the
hourly rate of pay to a volunteer firefighter for hours of duty performed in
excess of the average hours established by ORS 652.060. [Amended by 1959 c.402 §2;
1969 c.581 §2; 1983 c.319 §2] 

   

       652.080
Computing hours on duty for purposes of ORS 652.060 and 652.070. In computing the average or total
number of hours a week for the purposes of ORS 652.060 and 652.070, authorized
vacation or sick leave time shall be considered as time on regular duty. [1959
c.402 §4] 

   

       652.100 False
information related to hours worked or compensation received by employees;
prohibited acts by employer; employee right of action; remedies for violation;
penalties. An
employer may not: 

       (1) Compel,
coerce or otherwise induce or attempt to induce an employee to create, file or
sign documents containing information that the employer knows is false related
to the hours worked or compensation received by the employee. 

       (2) In addition
to any other remedy provided by law, an employee has a private cause of action
for a violation of subsection (1) of this section. The court may award actual
damages or $1,000 for each violation, whichever is greater, injunctive relief,
attorney fees and costs. The court shall count each pay period in which a
violation occurs or continues as a separate violation. 

       (3) In addition
to any other relief provided by law, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor
and Industries may assess a civil penalty under ORS 183.745 not to exceed
$1,000 for each violation of subsection (1) of this section. The commissioner
shall count each pay period in which a violation occurs or continues as a
separate violation. 

       (4) The
commissioner has the same enforcement powers with respect to the rights
established under subsections (1) to (3) of this section as are established in
this chapter and ORS chapter 653. [2017 c.211 §2] 

   

 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF
WAGES GENERALLY 

   

       652.110 Method
of paying employees; agreement on method of payment; revocation of agreement. (1) A person engaged in any
business or enterprise of any kind in this state may not issue, in payment of
or as evidence of indebtedness for wages due an employee, any order, check,
memorandum or other instrument of indebtedness unless the instrument is
negotiable and payable without discount in cash on demand at some bank or other
established place of business in the county where the employee lives or works
and where a sufficient amount of funds have been provided and are or will be
available for the payment of the instrument when due. The person shall, upon
presentation and demand, pay the instrument in lawful money of the United
States. 

       (2) This section
does not in any way limit or interfere with the right of any employee to accept
from any person, as an evidence or acknowledgment of indebtedness for wages due
the employee, a negotiable instrument, payable at some future date with interest. 

       (3) An employer
may pay wages without discount through direct deposit of wages due to an
employee into the employee’s account in a financial institution, as defined in
ORS 706.008, in this state. 

       (4) An employer
shall pay wages due to an employee by check upon the written or oral request of
the employee. 

       (5) An employer
and an employee may agree that the employer may pay wages through an automated
teller machine card, payroll card or other means of electronic transfer if the
employee may: 

       (a) Make an
initial withdrawal of the entire amount of net pay without cost to the
employee; or 

       (b) Choose to use
another means of payment of wages that involves no cost to the employee. 

       (6) An agreement
described in subsection (5) of this section must be made in the language that
the employer principally uses to communicate with the employee. 

       (7)(a) Except as
provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection, to revoke an agreement described
in subsection (5) of this section, an employee shall give the employer a
written notice of revocation of the agreement. Unless the employer and employee
agree otherwise, the agreement is revoked 30 days after the date the notice is
received by the employer. 

       (b) To revoke an
agreement described in subsection (5) of this section, an employee who works
for an employer as a seasonal farmworker as defined in ORS 652.145 or an
employee who is employed in packing, canning, freezing or drying any variety of
agricultural crops shall give the employer notice of revocation of the
agreement either orally or in writing. Unless the employer and the employee
agree otherwise, the agreement is revoked 10 days after the date the notice is
received by the employer. 

       (8) Nothing in
this section is intended to limit the rights of an employee or otherwise affect
an employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement. [Amended by 1975
c.191 §1; 1999 c.59 §191; 2007 c.546 §1; 2013 c.380 §1] 

   

       652.120
Establishing regular payday; pay intervals; agreement to pay wages at future
date. (1) Every
employer shall establish and maintain a regular payday, at which date the
employer shall pay all employees the wages due and owing to them. 

       (2) Payday may
not extend beyond a period of 35 days from the time that the employees entered
upon their work, or from the date of the last regular payday. 

       (3) This section
does not prevent the employer from establishing and maintaining paydays at more
frequent intervals. 

       (4) This section
does not prevent any employer from entering into a written agreement, prior to
the rendering of any services, and mutually satisfactory with the employer’s
employees, as to the payment of wages at a future date. 

       (5) When an
employer has notice that an employee has not been paid the full amount the
employee is owed on a regular payday and there is no dispute between the
employer and the employee regarding the amount of the unpaid wages: 

       (a) If the unpaid
amount is less than five percent of the employee’s gross wages due on the
regular payday, the employer shall pay the employee the unpaid amount no later
than the next regular payday; or 

       (b) If the unpaid
amount is five percent or more of the employee’s gross wages due on the regular
payday, the employer shall pay the employee the unpaid amount within three days
after the employer has notice of the unpaid amount, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays. [Amended by 1961 c.662 §1; 2007 c.453 §1] 

   

       652.125 Bond
required when failure to make timely wage payment occurs; court to enjoin
business of employer failing to provide bond. (1) If, upon complaint by an employee, and after
investigation, it appears to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and
Industries that an employer is failing to pay wages within five days of a
payday scheduled by the employer, the commissioner may require the employer to
give a bond in such amount as the commissioner determines necessary, with
sufficient surety, to assure timely payment of wages due employees for such
future period as the commissioner considers appropriate. In lieu of a bond, the
commissioner may accept a letter of credit from an issuer approved by the
commissioner, upon such terms and conditions and for such amount as the
commissioner determines necessary to assure timely payment of wages for such
future period as the commissioner determines appropriate. 

       (2) If, within 10
days after demand for such bond, the employer fails to provide the same, the
commissioner may commence court action against the employer in the circuit
court of appropriate jurisdiction to compel the employer to furnish such bond
or cease doing business until the employer has done so. The employer shall have
the burden of proving the amount thereof to be excessive. 

       (3) If the court
finds that there is just cause for requiring such bond and that the same is
reasonably necessary or appropriate to secure the prompt payment of the wages
of the employees of such employer, the court shall enjoin such employer from
doing business in this state until the requirement is met, or shall make other,
and may make further, orders appropriate to compel compliance with the
requirement. [1989 c.651 §3] 

   

       Note: 652.125 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 652
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       652.130
Payment of wages due persons employed on piece work scale or quantity basis in
forest product industries; furnishing statement of scale or quantity produced. Every person engaged in the
business of logging or obtaining or securing sawlogs, poles, spars, piles,
cordwood, posts or other timber or forest products, or engaged in the business
of manufacturing sawlogs or other timber into lumber, and employing one or more
employees on a piece work scale or quantity wage basis, shall furnish such
employees at least once monthly, a statement of scale or quantity produced by
them to their credit, and shall pay all wages or amounts so earned and due and
payable under the law regulating paydays. 

   

       652.140
Payment of wages on termination of employment; exception for collective
bargaining. (1)
When an employer discharges an employee or when employment is terminated by
mutual agreement, all wages earned and unpaid at the time of the discharge or
termination become due and payable not later than the end of the first business
day after the discharge or termination. 

       (2)(a) When an
employee who does not have a contract for a definite period quits employment,
all wages earned and unpaid at the time of quitting become due and payable
immediately if the employee has given to the employer not less than 48 hours’
notice, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, of intention to quit
employment. 

       (b) Except as
provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection, if the employee has not given to
the employer the notice described in paragraph (a) of this subsection, the
wages become due and payable within five days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, after the employee has quit, or at the next regularly scheduled
payday after the employee has quit, whichever event first occurs. 

       (c) If the
employee has not given to the employer the notice described in paragraph (a) of
this subsection and if the employee is regularly required to submit time
records to the employer to enable the employer to determine the wages due the
employee, within five days after the employee has quit the employer shall pay
the employee the wages the employer estimates are due and payable. Within five
days after the employee has submitted the time records, all wages earned and
unpaid become due and payable. 

       (3) For the
purpose of this section, if employment termination occurs on a Saturday, Sunday
or holiday, all wages earned and unpaid shall be paid no later than the end of
the first business day after the employment termination, except that if the
employment is related to activities authorized under ORS chapter 565, all wages
earned and unpaid shall be paid no later than the end of the second business
day after the employment termination. 

       (4) The employer
shall forward such wages by mail to any address designated by the employee if
the employee requests the employer so to do. An employer may deposit such wages
without discount in the employee’s account in a financial institution, as
defined in ORS 706.008, in this state, provided the employee and the employer
have agreed to such deposit. 

       (5) This section
does not apply to employment for which a collective bargaining agreement
otherwise provides for the payment of wages upon termination of employment. 

       (6) When a
termination of employment results from the sale of a business or business
property and the purchaser employs or continues the employment of an individual
employed at the business, this section does not apply to the payment to such an
individual of wages for earned but unused accrued holiday leave, sick leave,
vacation leave or other leave benefits payable upon termination of employment
pursuant to a collective bargaining or other employment agreement or employer
policy, if the following conditions are met: 

       (a) On the first
day of such an individual’s continued employment the purchaser of the business
credits the individual with all such earned but unused accrued leave; and 

       (b) The leave,
when used, is paid at a rate not less than the rate at which the leave was
earned or, if paid at a lesser rate, the number of hours credited is increased
to compensate the individual for any difference. [Amended by 1957 c.242 §1;
1975 c.192 §1; 1991 c.966 §1; 1995 c.753 §1; 1997 c.233 §1; 1999 c.59 §192;
2005 c.664 §1] 

   

       652.145
Payment of wages for seasonal farmworkers. (1) Notwithstanding ORS 652.140, if an employee has
worked for an employer as a seasonal farmworker, whenever the employment
terminates, all wages earned and unpaid become due and payable immediately
except: 

       (a) Wages are due
and payable by noon on the day after termination of the employment of the
seasonal farmworker if: 

       (A) The
termination occurs at the end of the harvest season; 

       (B) The employer
is a farmworker camp operator described in ORS 658.715 (1)(b) or (c); and 

       (C) The
farmworker is provided housing that complies with ORS 658.705 to 658.850 at no
cost to the worker from the termination of work until wages due are paid. 

       (b) If the
employee quits without giving the employer at least 48 hours’ notice, wages
earned and unpaid are due and payable within 48 hours after the employee has
quit, or at the next regularly scheduled payday after the employee has quit,
whichever event first occurs. 

       (2) As used in
this section, “seasonal farmworker” means an individual who, for an agreed
remuneration or rate of pay, performs temporary labor for another in the
production of farm products or in the planting, cultivating or harvesting of
seasonal agricultural crops or in the forestation or reforestation of lands
including, but not limited to, the planting, transplanting, tubing,
precommercial thinning and thinning of trees and seedlings, the clearing,
piling and disposal of brush and slash and other related activities. [1991
c.966 §4; 2001 c.613 §17; 2013 c.347 §1] 

   

       652.150
Penalty wage for failure to pay wages on termination of employment. (1) Except as provided in
subsections (2) and (3) of this section, if an employer willfully fails to pay
any wages or compensation of any employee whose employment ceases, as provided
in ORS 652.140 and 652.145, then, as a penalty for the nonpayment, the wages or
compensation of the employee shall continue from the due date thereof at the
same hourly rate for eight hours per day until paid or until action therefor is
commenced. However: 

       (a) In no case
shall the penalty wages or compensation continue for more than 30 days from the
due date; and 

       (b) A penalty may
not be assessed under this section when an employer pays an employee the wages
the employer estimates are due and payable under ORS 652.140 (2)(c) and the
estimated amount of wages paid is less than the actual amount of earned and
unpaid wages, as long as the employer pays the employee all wages earned and
unpaid within five days after the employee submits the time records. 

       (2)(a) If the
employee or a person on behalf of the employee submits a written notice of
nonpayment, the penalty may not exceed 100 percent of the employee’s unpaid
wages or compensation unless the employer fails to pay the full amount of the
employee’s unpaid wages or compensation within 12 days after receiving the
notice. 

       (b) If the
employee or a person on behalf of the employee fails to submit a written notice
of nonpayment, the penalty may not exceed 100 percent of the employee’s unpaid
wages or compensation. 

       (c) A written
notice of nonpayment must include the estimated amount of wages or compensation
alleged to be owed or an allegation of facts sufficient to estimate the amount
owed. Submission of a written notice of nonpayment that fails to include the
estimated amount of wages or compensation alleged to be owed or an allegation
of facts sufficient to estimate the amount owed does not satisfy the
requirement for written notice under this subsection unless the employer has
violated ORS 652.610, 652.640 or 653.045. 

       (d) For purposes
of determining when an employer has paid wages or compensation under this
subsection, payment occurs on the date the employer delivers the payment to the
employee or sends the payment by first class mail, express mail or courier
service. 

       (3)(a) For
purposes of this section, a commission owed to an employee by a business that
primarily sells motor vehicles or farm implements is not due until all of the
terms and conditions of an agreement between the employer and employee
concerning the method of payment of commissions are fulfilled. If no such
agreement exists, the commission is due with all other earned and unpaid wages
or compensation as provided in ORS 652.140. 

       (b)
Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, when there is a dispute between
an employer and an employee concerning the amount of commission due under
paragraph (a) of this subsection, if the amount of unpaid commission is found
to be less than 20 percent of the amount of unpaid commission claimed by the
employee, the penalty may not exceed the amount of the unpaid commission or
$200, whichever is greater. 

       (4) Subsections
(2) and (3)(b) of this section do not apply when: 

       (a) The employer
has violated ORS 652.140 or 652.145 one or more times in the year before the
employee’s employment ceased; or 

       (b) The employer
terminated one or more other employees on the same date that the employee’s
employment ceased. 

       (5) The employer
may avoid liability for the penalty described in this section by showing
financial inability to pay the wages or compensation at the time the wages or
compensation accrued. [Amended by 1957 c.244 §1; 1991 c.966 §2; 1995 c.501 §1;
2001 c.690 §1; 2003 c.779 §1; 2005 c.664 §2; 2011 c.348 §2] 

   

       652.160
Payment in case of dispute over wages. 
In case of dispute over wages, the employer must pay, without condition, and
within the time set by ORS 652.140, all wages conceded by the employer to be
due, leaving the employee all remedies the employee might otherwise have or be
entitled to as to any balance the employee might claim. 

   

       652.165 Rules
for wage collection and payment. 
In accordance with any applicable provision of ORS chapter 183, the
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may adopt rules to carry out
the provisions of ORS 652.140 to 652.160. [1995 c.501 §3] 

   

       652.170
Payment of wages in case of strikes. 
When any number of employees enter upon a strike, the wages due such striking
employees at the time of entering upon such strike shall not become due and
payable until the next regular payday after the commencement of such strike, if
the time between the commencement of the strike and the next regular payday
does not exceed a period of 30 days. If the intervening time does exceed the
period of 30 days, then the wages shall be due and payable 30 days after the
commencement of the strike. 

   

       652.180 [Repealed by 1953 c.515 §2] 

   

       652.190
Payment of wages to surviving spouse or dependent children. All wages earned by an employee,
not exceeding $10,000, shall, upon the employee’s death, become due and payable
to the employee’s surviving spouse, or if there is no surviving spouse, the
dependent children, or their guardians or the conservators of their estates, in
equal shares, to the same extent as if the wages had been earned by such
surviving spouse or dependent children. As used in this section, “wages” means
compensation of employees based on time worked or output of production and
includes every form of remuneration payable for a given period to an individual
for personal services. [Amended by 1971 c.448 §1; 1981 c.594 §1; 1997 c.52 §1] 

   

       652.195
Liability for dishonored check for payment of wages; penalties. (1) An employer that issues to an
employee a dishonored check for payment of wages due is liable to the employee
for the remedies provided in ORS 30.701. 

       (2) Except as
provided in subsection (3) of this section, the Commissioner of the Bureau of
Labor and Industries may assess a civil penalty in an amount equal to the
statutory damages provided by ORS 30.701 against an employer that issues a
dishonored check to an employee for payment of wages due. 

       (3) The
commissioner may not assess a civil penalty under this section against an
employer that has issued a dishonored check for payment of wages due to an
employee if the employee has commenced an action under ORS 30.701 against the
employer for the same dishonored check. 

       (4) If the
commissioner has assessed a civil penalty under subsection (2) of this section,
an employee may not bring an action under ORS 30.701 against the employer for
the same dishonored check. 

       (5) All sums
collected as penalties under this section shall be paid to the employee to whom
the employer issued the dishonored check. [2011 c.238 §2] 

   

       652.197 Joint
and several liability for unpaid wages owed to unrepresented employees
performing labor under a construction contract. (1) As used in this section and
ORS 652.198: 

       (a) “Authorized
third party representative” means a third party that is authorized by an
unrepresented employee to assert the rights of the unrepresented employee. 

       (b) “Construction
contract” means an express or implied agreement: 

       (A) For the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, moving or demolition of
any building, structure or improvement. 

       (B) Relating to
the excavation of or other development of or improvement to land. 

       (c) “Construction
trade labor organization” means a bona fide labor organization that represents
employees in the building and construction trades. 

       (d) “Direct
contractor” means any person, including a construction manager, joint venture
or any combination thereof, the person’s successors, heirs or assigns, that
enters into a construction contract with an owner. 

       (e) “Fringe
benefit contributions” means the amount of compensation that accompanies or is
in addition to an employee’s regular salary or wages, including, but not
limited to, payments made to profit-sharing plans, retirement or pension plans,
medical insurance, severance pay or holiday, vacation or sick leave plans, but
does not include the benefit payments from such plans. 

       (f) “Labor
organization” means an organization, agency or an employee representation
committee or plan, in which employees participate and which exists, in whole or
in part, for the purpose of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor
disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment or work conditions. 

       (g)(A) “Owner”
means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company,
organization or other entity, or any combination thereof, with an ownership
interest, whether the interest or estate is in fee, as vendee under a contract
to purchase, as lessee or another interest or estate less than fee that causes: 

       (i) A building,
structure or improvement, new or existing, to be constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, remodeled, repaired, maintained, moved or demolished; or 

       (ii) Land to be
excavated or otherwise developed or improved. 

       (B) “Owner” does
not mean: 

       (i) A public
agency, as defined in ORS 279C.800; or 

       (ii) A financial
institution that acquires ownership of a property through foreclosure or a deed
in lieu of foreclosure, provided that the financial institution does not
undertake, contract for or direct construction work beyond activities necessary
to preserve or secure the property. 

       (h) “Subcontractor”
means any person that may or may not have direct privity with a direct
contractor but that is a party to an express or implied contract with a direct
contractor or with a direct contractor’s subcontractors at any tier to perform
any portion of work within the scope of the direct contractor’s construction
contract with an owner. 

       (i) “Unrepresented
employee” means an employee of a direct contractor or subcontractor who is: 

       (A) Not
represented by a construction trade labor organization that has established
itself or its affiliates as the collective bargaining representative for
persons performing work on a project; or 

       (B) Not covered
by a collective bargaining agreement that: 

       (i) Contains a
grievance procedure that results in a final and binding decision; and 

       (ii) Provides a
mechanism for recovering unpaid wages and fringe benefit contributions on
behalf of the employees covered by the agreement. 

       (2) An owner that
enters into a construction contract with a direct contractor shall be jointly
and severally liable with the direct contractor for any unpaid wages, including
fringe benefit contributions and penalties, owed to any unrepresented employee
of the direct contractor and any unrepresented employee of a subcontractor at
any tier for labor performed on a project within the scope of the construction
contract. 

       (3)(a) Any of the
following persons may bring a civil action against an owner, a direct
contractor or a subcontractor in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover
unpaid wages, including fringe benefit contributions, interest and penalty
wages, damages, attorney fees and costs incurred in connection with the action: 

       (A) An
unrepresented employee. 

       (B) An authorized
third party representative. 

       (b)
Notwithstanding ORS chapter 180, the Attorney General may accept the assignment
of claims under this subsection, bring civil actions in the name of the State
of Oregon on assigned claims and recover costs as provided in this section. The
Attorney General may adopt rules to implement this paragraph. 

       (c)(A) Prior to
commencing a civil action against an owner or a direct contractor under this
subsection, a person must send written notice of the alleged violation by
first-class certified mail to the owner and direct contractor that sets forth
the alleged violation and the nature of the claim and states that the owner and
the direct contractor have 21 calendar days from the certified delivery date to
correct the alleged violation. Such notice does not operate to limit the
liability of the owner or direct contractor or preclude a person from
subsequently amending a complaint after the action is commenced to include
additional parties to the action. 

       (B) A civil
action may not be: 

       (i) Initiated
until after the time period under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph has
expired. 

       (ii) Brought
against an owner or a direct contractor if the owner or direct contractor has
corrected the alleged violation within the specified time period under
subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. 

       (d) A civil
action under this subsection to recover unpaid wages must be commenced within
two years from the date on which the wages and fringe benefit contributions
became due. 

       (4) Any agreement
to waive or release an owner or direct contractor or to indemnify an owner or
direct contractor for liability assigned under this section is invalid. 

       (5)(a) An owner
or direct contractor may not avoid liability under this section by claiming
that a person performing labor on a project within the scope of a construction
contract is an independent contractor rather than an employee of a direct
contractor or subcontractor unless the person qualifies as an independent
contractor under ORS 670.600. 

       (b) In any action
brought under this section, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a
person performing labor on a project within the scope of a construction
contract is an employee. The party claiming otherwise may rebut the presumption
by establishing that the person qualifies as an independent contractor under
ORS 670.600. 

       (6) Nothing in
this section impairs: 

       (a) The right of
an owner or direct contractor to bring an action against a subcontractor to
seek recovery of actual and liquidated damages for the amounts paid by the
owner or direct contractor for unpaid wages, including fringe benefit
contributions, interest and penalty wages, damages, attorney fees and incurred
costs associated with an action brought under this section. 

       (b) The right of
an owner to bring an action against a direct contractor to seek recovery of
actual and liquidated damages for the amounts paid by the owner for unpaid
wages, including fringe benefit contributions, interest and penalty wages,
damages, attorney fees and incurred costs associated with an action brought
under this section. 

       (7) This section
does not apply to the construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance,
moving or demolition of any building, structure or improvement, or to the
excavation or other development of or improvement to land, that relates to real
property that is used as the owner’s principal residence or to real property
consisting of five or fewer residential or commercial units on a single tract,
as defined in ORS 215.010. 

       (8) Nothing in
this section is intended to diminish the rights, privileges or remedies of an
employee under a collective bargaining agreement. 

       (9) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may adopt any rules
necessary to implement the provisions of this section. [2025 c.287 §2] 

   

       652.198
Subcontractor recordkeeping requirements related to employee wages on
construction projects; retainage permitted for noncompliance. (1) Any subcontractor with which a
direct contractor has entered into a contract to perform a portion of a
construction project within the scope of a construction contract between the
direct contractor and an owner shall provide the following records to the
direct contractor and the owner, upon the request, respectively, of the direct
contractor or the owner: 

       (a) Certified
payroll reports, that, at a minimum, include sufficient information for the
direct contractor to determine whether a subcontractor has paid in full all
wages earned by unrepresented employees who performed work on the project as
part of the employees’ total compensation. 

       (b) The name,
address and phone number of a contact for the subcontractor. 

       (c) The names of
all workers who performed work on the construction project and notation of
whether each worker is paid or classified as an employee or independent
contractor. 

       (d) The name of
any subcontractor with which the first-tier subcontractor contracts. 

       (e) The anticipated
contract start date and scheduled duration of work. 

       (f) An affidavit
that attests to whether the subcontractor or any of the subcontractor’s current
principals have, within the preceding five years, participated in any civil,
administrative or criminal proceeding involving a violation of any law
providing for payment of wages or imposing a criminal penalty for the violation
and the outcome of the proceeding, including damages, fees or penalty amounts
paid to workers or a government agency, if any. 

       (2) A
subcontractor shall provide the records described in subsection (1) of this
section to an authorized third party representative only to the extent that the
information contained in the records pertains specifically to the employee on
whose behalf the authorized third party representative is acting and to
whatever extent that the subcontractor would be lawfully required to disclose
such records to the employee if the employee was acting on the employee’s own
behalf under ORS 652.750. 

       (3) A subcontractor’s
failure to comply with subsection (1) of this section does not relieve an owner
or a direct contractor of the liability prescribed by ORS 652.197. 

       (4) Nothing in
this section shall alter an owner’s or a direct contractor’s obligation to
timely pay a subcontractor under ORS chapter 701, except that an owner and a
direct contractor may withhold payment to a subcontractor: 

       (a)(A) Because of
the subcontractor’s failure to comply with the request for records under
subsection (1) of this section; and 

       (B) In an amount
and to the extent that the owner or direct contractor has paid, on behalf of
the subcontractor, wages owed to the employees of the subcontractor; or 

       (b) In an amount
and to the extent that the owner or direct contractor has paid, on behalf of
the subcontractor, wages owed to the employees of the subcontractor. 

       (5) A direct
contractor or subcontractor may not disclose personally identifying information
about workers who perform work on a construction project except to the extent
necessary to comply with federal or state laws. 

       (6) As used in
this section, “principal” means a person, including an owner or a direct
contractor, that commissions a construction project and that is responsible for
the project’s scope, standards and objectives. [2025 c.287 §3] 

   

       652.200
Attorney fee in action for wages. 
(1) In any action for the collection of any order, check, memorandum or other
instrument of indebtedness referred to in ORS 652.110, if it is shown that the
order, check, memorandum or other instrument of indebtedness was not paid for a
period of 48 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after
presentation and demand for the payment thereof, the court shall, upon entering
judgment for the plaintiff, include in the judgment, in addition to the costs
and disbursements otherwise prescribed by statute, a reasonable sum for
attorney fees at trial and on appeal for prosecuting the action, unless it
appears that the employee has willfully violated the contract of employment. 

       (2) In any action
for the collection of wages, if it is shown that the wages were not paid for a
period of 48 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after the wages
became due and payable, the court shall, upon entering judgment for the plaintiff,
include in the judgment, in addition to the costs and disbursements otherwise
prescribed by statute, a reasonable sum for attorney fees at trial and on
appeal for prosecuting the action, unless it appears that the employee has
willfully violated the contract of employment or unless the court finds that
the plaintiff’s attorney unreasonably failed to give written notice of the wage
claim to the employer before filing the action. [Amended by 1957 c.242 §2; 1981
c.897 §86; 2001 c.279 §1; 2007 c.546 §2] 

   

       652.210
Definitions for ORS 652.210 to 652.235. As used in ORS 652.210 to 652.235, unless the context
requires otherwise: 

       (1)(a) “Compensation”
includes wages, salary, bonuses, benefits, fringe benefits and equity-based
compensation. 

       (b) “Compensation”
does not include vaccine incentives. 

       (2) “Employee”
means any individual who, otherwise than as a copartner of the employer, as an
independent contractor or as a participant in a work training program
administered under the state or federal assistance laws, renders personal
services wholly or partly in this state to an employer who pays or agrees to
pay such individual at a fixed rate. However, when services are rendered only
partly in this state, an individual is not an employee unless the contract of
employment of the employee has been entered into, or payments thereunder are
ordinarily made or to be made, within this state. 

       (3)(a) “Employer”
means any person employing one or more employees, including the State of Oregon
or any political subdivision thereof or any county, city, district, authority,
public corporation or entity and any of their instrumentalities organized and
existing under law or charter. 

       (b) “Employer”
does not include the federal government. 

       (4) “Equal-pay
analysis” means an evaluation process to assess and correct wage disparities
among employees who perform work of comparable character. 

       (5) “Gender
identity” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.100. 

       (6) “Protected
class” means a group of persons distinguished by race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, marital status, veteran
status, disability or age. 

       (7) “Public
health emergency” means: 

       (a) A public
health emergency declared under ORS 433.441. 

       (b) An emergency
declared under ORS 401.165 if related to a public health emergency as defined
in ORS 433.442. 

       (8) “Rate” with
reference to wages means: 

       (a) The basis of
compensation for services by an employee for an employer; and 

       (b) Compensation
based on the time spent in the performance of the services, on the number of
operations accomplished or on the quantity produced or handled. 

       (9) “Sexual
orientation” has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.100. 

       (10) “System”
means a consistent and verifiable method in use at the time that a violation is
alleged under ORS 652.220. 

       (11) “Unpaid
wages” means the difference between the wages actually paid to an employee and
the wages required under ORS 652.220 to be paid to the employee. 

       (12) “Vaccine
incentives” means monetary or nonmonetary incentives, including but not limited
to additional paid time off or protected time off from work provided by
employers to employees who have been immunized against infectious diseases for
which a public health emergency has been declared. 

       (13) “Veteran
status” means an individual is a veteran as defined in ORS 408.225. 

       (14) “Wages”
means all compensation for performance of service by an employee for an
employer, whether paid by the employer or another person, or paid in cash or
any medium other than cash. 

       (15) “Working
conditions” includes work environment, hours, time of day, physical
surroundings and potential hazards encountered by an employee. 

       (16) “Work of
comparable character” means work that requires substantially similar knowledge,
skill, effort, responsibility and working conditions in the performance of
work, regardless of job description or job title. [1955 c.193 §1; 1985 c.100 §1;
1987 c.158 §124; 1993 c.739 §25; 2005 c.22 §457; 2017 c.197 §1; 2019 c.617 §1;
2021 c.363 §§2,3,4; 2021 c.367 §29; 2022 c.23 §§1,2] 

   

       652.220
Prohibition of discriminatory wage rates based on protected class; exceptions;
employer not to discriminate against employee who is complainant. (1) It is an unlawful employment
practice under ORS chapter 659A for an employer to: 

       (a) In any manner
discriminate between employees on the basis of a protected class in the payment
of wages or other compensation for work of comparable character. 

       (b) Pay wages or
other compensation to any employee at a rate greater than that at which the
employer pays wages or other compensation to employees of a protected class for
work of comparable character. 

       (c) Screen job
applicants based on current or past compensation. 

       (d) Determine
compensation for a position based on current or past compensation of a
prospective employee. This paragraph is not intended to prevent an employer
from considering the compensation of a current employee of the employer during
a transfer, move or hire of the employee to a new position with the same
employer. 

       (2)
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section: 

       (a) An employer
may pay employees for work of comparable character at different compensation
levels if all of the difference in compensation levels is based on a bona fide
factor that is related to the position in question and is based on: 

       (A) A seniority
system; 

       (B) A merit
system; 

       (C) A system that
measures earnings by quantity or quality of production, including piece-rate
work; 

       (D) Workplace
locations; 

       (E) Travel, if
travel is necessary and regular for the employee; 

       (F) Education; 

       (G) Training; 

       (H) Experience;
or 

       (I) Any
combination of the factors described in this paragraph, if the combination of
factors accounts for the entire compensation differential. 

       (b) An employer
may pay employees for work of comparable character at different compensation
levels on the basis of one or more of the factors listed in paragraph (a) of
this subsection that are contained in a collective bargaining agreement. 

       (3) An employer
may not in any manner discriminate in the payment of wages or other
compensation against any employee because the employee has filed a complaint
under ORS 659A.820 or in a proceeding under ORS 652.210 to 652.235 or 659A.885
or has testified, or is about to testify, or because the employer believes that
the employee may testify, in any investigation or proceedings pursuant to ORS
652.210 to 652.235, 659A.830 or 659A.885 or in a criminal action pursuant to
ORS 652.210 to 652.235. 

       (4) An employer
may not reduce the compensation level of an employee to comply with the
provisions of this section. 

       (5) It is not a
violation of this section for an employer to pay a different level of
compensation to an employee who: 

       (a) Pursuant to a
claim for a compensable injury under ORS chapter 656, receives wages for
modified work; or 

       (b) As a result
of a medical condition, is temporarily performing modified work that is: 

       (A) Authorized by
a medical professional licensed under ORS chapter 677; or 

       (B) Requested by
the employee and authorized by the employer in a manner that does not
discriminate against employees on the basis of a protected class. 

       (6) Amounts owed
to an employee because of the failure of the employer to comply with the
requirements of this section are unpaid wages. 

       (7) An employee
who asserts a violation under this section may file a complaint with the
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries under ORS 659A.820, a civil
action under ORS 652.230 or a civil action under 659A.885. 

       (8) An employer
shall post a notice of the requirements of this section in every establishment
where employees work. The Bureau of Labor and Industries shall make available
to employers a template that meets the required notice provisions of this
section. [1955 c.193 §2; 2017 c.197 §2; 2019 c.617 §2] 

   

       652.230
Employee right of action against employer for unpaid wages and damages; statute
of limitations; notice requirement. 
(1) Any employee whose compensation is at a rate that is in violation of ORS
652.220 shall have a right of action against the employer for the recovery of: 

       (a) The amount of
the unpaid wages to which the employee is entitled for the one year period
preceding the commencement of the action; and 

       (b) An additional
amount as liquidated damages equal to the amount referred to in paragraph (a)
of this subsection. 

       (2) The court
shall award reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing plaintiff in an action
under this section. The court may award reasonable attorney fees and expert
witness fees incurred by a defendant who prevails in the action if the court
determines that the plaintiff had no objectively reasonable basis for asserting
a claim or no objectively reasonable basis for appealing an adverse decision of
a trial court. 

       (3) The action
for the unpaid wages and liquidated damages may be maintained by one or more
employees on behalf of themselves or other employees similarly situated. 

       (4) No agreement
for compensation at a rate less than the rate to which such employee is
entitled under ORS 652.210 to 652.235 is a defense to any action under ORS
652.210 to 652.235. 

       (5) For the
purpose of time limitations, a compensation practice that is unlawful under ORS
652.220 occurs each time compensation is paid pursuant to a discriminatory
compensation decision or other practice. 

       (6) An action
under this section alleging a violation of ORS 652.220 must be commenced within
one year after the occurrence of the unlawful practice. 

       (7)
Notwithstanding ORS 30.275 (2)(b), notice of claim against a public body under
ORS 652.220 must be given within 300 days of discovery of the alleged loss or
injury. [1955 c.193 §3; 1981 c.894 §87; 1995 c.618 §110; 2017 c.197 §3] 

   

       652.235 Motion
to disallow award of compensatory and punitive damages; equal-pay analysis of
employer’s pay practices; remedies. 
(1) In a civil action under ORS 652.230 or 659A.885 (1) alleging a violation of
ORS 652.220, the employer may file a motion to disallow an award of
compensatory and punitive damages. The court shall grant the motion if the
employer demonstrates, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the employer: 

       (a) Completed,
within three years before the date that the employee filed the action, an
equal-pay analysis of the employer’s pay practices in good faith that: 

       (A) Was
reasonable in detail and in scope in light of the size of the employer; and 

       (B) Included a
review of practices designed to eliminate unlawful wage differentials; and 

       (b) Has made
reasonable and substantial progress toward eliminating unlawful wage
differentials for the employer’s employees. 

       (2) If the court
grants the motion filed under this section and the plaintiff prevails on the
claim in the action, the court: 

       (a) Shall order
the employer to eliminate the unlawful wage differential for the plaintiff; 

       (b) Shall award
back pay or unpaid wages as provided under ORS 652.230 or 659A.885 (1); and 

       (c) May allow the
prevailing plaintiff costs and reasonable attorney fees, but may not award
compensatory or punitive damages. 

       (3)(a) Evidence
of an equal-pay analysis undertaken in accordance with subsection (1) of this
section is inadmissible in any other proceeding. 

       (b) Evidence that
an employer has increased an employee’s pay as a result of conducting an
equal-pay analysis may not be considered as an admission of liability in a
civil action alleging a violation of ORS 652.220. 

       (4) Information
that an employer has not completed an equal-pay analysis may not be used as
evidence of a violation of ORS 652.220 in an action under ORS 652.230 or
659A.885 alleging a violation of ORS 652.220. [2017 c.197 §12; 2019 c.617 §3] 

   

       652.240 Paying
wage lower than that required by statute or contract prohibited. Where any statute or contract
requires an employer to maintain the designated wage scale, it shall be
unlawful to secretly pay a lower wage while purporting to pay the wage
designated by statute or by contract. [1957 c.243 §1] 

   

       652.250 Public
employee’s wages as affected by absence to engage in search or rescue
operation. A
public employee who takes part without pay in a search or rescue operation at
the request of any law enforcement agency, the Department of Transportation,
the United States Forest Service or any local organization for civil defense,
shall not forfeit wages while engaged in an operation for a period of not more
than five days for each operation. If an operation continues for more than five
days, the employing agency may allow the employee to continue to take part in
the operation and to receive wages for as long as the employing agency
considers proper. [1959 c.46 §1] 

   

       652.260
Payment to home health care staff and home hospice care staff providing home
health or hospice services; rules. 
(1) As used in this section: 

       (a) “Home health
care staff” means individuals who provide home health services. “Home health
care staff” does not include: 

       (A) Home care
workers, as defined in ORS 410.600; 

       (B) Direct
caregivers employed by an in-home care agency as defined in ORS 443.305; 

       (C) Physicians; 

       (D) Nurse
practitioners; 

       (E)
Psychiatrists; 

       (F)
Psychologists; 

       (G) Volunteers;
or 

       (H) Individuals
classified as a supervisor under an applicable collective bargaining agreement
or certified as a supervisor by the National Labor Relations Board or the
Employment Relations Board. 

       (b) “Home health
services” has the meaning given that term in ORS 443.014. 

       (c) “Home hospice
care staff” means individuals who provide home hospice services. “Home hospice
care staff” does not include: 

       (A) Home care
workers, as defined in ORS 410.600; 

       (B) Direct
caregivers employed by an in-home care agency as defined in ORS 443.305; 

       (C) Physicians; 

       (D) Nurse
practitioners; 

       (E)
Psychiatrists; 

       (F)
Psychologists; 

       (G) Volunteers;
or 

       (H) Individuals
classified as a supervisor under an applicable collective bargaining agreement
or certified as a supervisor by the National Labor Relations Board or the
Employment Relations Board. 

       (d) “Home hospice
services” means hospice services that are furnished to an individual by home
hospice care staff in a place of temporary or permanent residence used as the
individual’s home for the purpose of maintaining that individual at home. 

       (e) “Hospice
services” has the meaning given that term in ORS 443.850. 

       (f) “Term or
condition of employment” includes bonuses, productivity-based pay raises and
disciplinary procedures. 

       (2) A home health
agency providing home health services may not compensate home health care staff
providing home health services for the agency on a per-visit basis. 

       (3) A hospice
program providing hospice services may not compensate home hospice care staff
providing hospice services for the program on a per-visit basis. 

       (4) For purposes
of this section, compensation shall be considered to be on a per-visit basis if
paid in connection with any term or condition of employment that is directly or
indirectly related to or based in whole or in part on: 

       (a) The total
number of patients served by a home health care staff person or a home hospice
care staff person; or 

       (b) The number of
visits made to patients by a home health care staff person or a home hospice
care staff person. 

       (5)(a) The Bureau
of Labor and Industries shall enforce compliance with the provisions of this
section. 

       (b) In accordance
with the provisions of ORS chapter 183, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor
and Industries may adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this section. [2009
c.141 §2; 2025 c.546 §1] 

   

 ENFORCEMENT OF WAGE
CLAIMS 

   

 (Generally) 

   

       652.310
Definitions of employer and employee. 
As used in ORS 652.310 to 652.414, unless the context requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Employer”
means any person who in this state, directly or through an agent, engages
personal services of one or more employees and includes any successor to the
business of any employer, or any lessee or purchaser of any employer’s business
property for the continuance of the same business, so far as such employer has
not paid employees in full. “Employer” includes the State of Oregon or any
political subdivision thereof or any county, city, district, authority, public
corporation or entity and any of their instrumentalities organized and existing
under law or charter but does not include: 

       (a) The United
States. 

       (b) Trustees and
assignees in bankruptcy or insolvency, and receivers, whether appointed by
federal or state courts, and persons otherwise falling under the definition of
employers so far as the times or amounts of their payments to employees are
regulated by laws of the United States, or regulations or orders made in
pursuance thereof. 

       (2) “Employee”
means any individual who otherwise than as copartner of the employer or as an
independent contractor renders personal services wholly or partly in this state
to an employer who pays or agrees to pay such individual at a fixed rate, based
on the time spent in the performance of such services or on the number of
operations accomplished, or quantity produced or handled. However: 

       (a) Where
services are rendered by an independent contractor, an individual shall not be
an employee under this section unless the individual is a musician or
supporting technical person. 

       (b) Where
services are rendered only partly in this state, an individual shall not be an employee
under this section unless the contract of employment of the employee has been
entered into, or payments thereunder are ordinarily made or to be made, within
this state. [Amended by 1963 c.348 §1; 1975 c.488 §1; 1985 c.100 §2; 2001 c.7 §1] 

   

       652.320
Definitions for ORS 652.310 to 652.414. As used in ORS 652.310 to 652.414, unless the context
requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Commissioner”
means the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries. 

       (2) “Court” means
a court of competent jurisdiction and proper venue to entertain a proceeding
referred to in ORS 652.310 to 652.414. 

       (3) “Demand”
means a written demand for payment made during business hours on an employer or
any appropriate representative of an employer by an employee or by some person
having and exhibiting due authority to act in said employee’s behalf. 

       (4) “Pay” means
to deliver or tender compensation at a previously designated and reasonably
convenient place in this state, during working hours, in legal tender or by
order or negotiable instrument payable and paid in legal tender without
discount on demand in this state or by deposit without discount in an employee’s
account in a financial institution, as defined in ORS 706.008, in this state,
provided the employee and the employer have agreed to such deposit. 

       (5) “Payment”
means the delivery, tender or deposit of compensation in the medium of payment
described in subsection (4) of this section. Such delivery, tender or deposit
shall be made to or for the account of the employee concerned or to or for the
account of any person having due authority to act in said employee’s behalf. 

       (6) “Rate of
payment” means the rate at which payment is made or is to be made in the manner
described in this section. 

       (7) “Wage claim”
means an employee’s claim against an employer for compensation for the employee’s
own personal services, and includes any wages, compensation, damages or civil
penalties provided by law to employees in connection with a claim for unpaid
wages. [Amended by 1975 c.190 §1; 1975 c.488 §2; 1979 c.695 §1; 1999 c.59 §193;
1999 c.351 §39; 2001 c.7 §2] 

   

       652.325 [1975 c.488 §4; 1991 c.331 §94;
repealed by 1999 c.69 §1] 

   

       652.330 Powers
and duties of commissioner in enforcing wage claims; parties to wage claim
action. (1) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall enforce ORS 652.310 to
652.414 and to that end may: 

       (a) Investigate
and attempt equitably to adjust controversies between employers and employees
in respect of wage claims or alleged wage claims. 

       (b) Take
assignments, in trust, of wage claims or judgments thereon, liens and other
instruments of security for payment of wages from the assigning employees,
spouses, parents or legal guardians, having a right to the wages of such
employees. All such assignments shall run to the commissioner and any
successors in office. The commissioner may sue employers on wage claims and
other persons or property liable for any payment thereof thus assigned with the
benefits and subject to existing laws applying to actions by employees for
collection of wages. The commissioner is entitled to recover, in addition to
costs, such sum as the court or judge may adjudge reasonable as attorney fees
at trial and on appeal. The commissioner may join in a single proceeding and in
one cause of action any number of wage claims against the same employer. If the
commissioner does not prevail in such action, the commissioner shall pay all
costs and disbursements from the Bureau of Labor and Industries Account. 

       (c) Make
complaint in a criminal court for any violation of any law providing for
payment of wages and imposing a penalty for its violation as for a crime. 

       (d) In any case
where a civil action may be brought under this chapter for the collection of a
wage claim, provide for an administrative proceeding to determine the validity
and enforce collection of the claim. The administrative proceeding shall be
conducted as provided in this chapter, and is subject to the employer’s right
to elect a trial in a court of law. 

       (2) An assigning
wage claimant shall not be regarded as a party to any court action brought by
the commissioner under this section for any purpose. [Amended by 1957 c.465 §6;
1963 c.258 §2; 1967 c.218 §1; 1979 c.695 §2; 1981 c.897 §88] 

   

       652.332
Administrative proceeding for wage claim collection; court enforcement and
review; rules. (1)
In any case when the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries has
received a wage claim complaint which the commissioner could seek to collect
through court action, the commissioner may instead elect to seek collection of
such claim through administrative proceedings in the manner provided in this
section, subject to the employer’s right to request a trial in a court of law.
The commissioner may join in a single administrative proceeding any number of
wage claims against the same employer. Upon making such election, the
commissioner shall serve upon the employer and the wage claimant an order of
determination directing the employer to pay to the commissioner the amount of
the wage claim and any penalty amounts under ORS 279C.855 (1), 652.150 and
653.055 (1) determined to be owed the wage claimant. Service shall be made in
the same manner as service of summons or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The order of determination shall include: 

       (a) A reference
to the particular sections of the statutes or rules involved; 

       (b) A short and
concise statement of the basis for the amounts determined to be owed to each
wage claimant; 

       (c) A statement
of the party’s right to request a contested case hearing and to be represented
by counsel at such a hearing, and of the employer’s right to a trial in a court
of law, provided that any request for a contested case hearing or trial in a
court of law must be received by the commissioner in writing within 20 days
after receipt by the party of the order of determination; 

       (d) A statement
that the employer must, within 20 days after receipt of the order of
determination, either pay in full the wage claim and any penalties assessed, or
present to the commissioner a written request for a contested case hearing or a
trial in a court of law as provided in this section; 

       (e) A statement
that failure to make a written request to the commissioner for a contested case
hearing or a trial of the claim in a court of law within the time specified
shall constitute a waiver of the right thereto and a waiver of the right to a
trial by jury; 

       (f) For an
employer that is a contractor or business licensed under ORS chapter 701, a
statement that failure to pay in full the wage claim and any penalties assessed
within 60 days of the date that an order of determination becomes final under
this section will result in notification to the Construction Contractors Board
of such failure to pay and the suspension of the contractor’s or business’s
license in accordance with ORS 701.110; and 

       (g) A statement
that unless the written requests provided for in paragraph (c) of this
subsection are received by the commissioner within the time specified for
making such requests, the order of determination shall become final. 

       (2) Upon failure
of the employer to pay the amount specified in the order of determination or to
request a trial in a court of law within the time specified, and upon failure
of any party to request a contested case hearing within the time specified, the
order of determination shall become final. 

       (3) If a party
makes a timely request for a contested case hearing, a hearing shall be held in
accordance with the applicable provisions of ORS 183.415 to 183.500 by the
commissioner or the commissioner’s designee. The commissioner shall adopt rules
for such hearing. In any hearing before the commissioner’s designee, the
designee is authorized to issue the final order in the case. If the employer
makes a timely request for a trial in a court of law, the commissioner may
proceed against the employer as provided in ORS 652.330 (1)(b). 

       (4) Final
administrative orders issued in a wage claim proceeding are subject to review
by the Court of Appeals as provided in ORS 183.480 and 183.482. 

       (5) When an order
issued under this section becomes final, it may be recorded in the County Clerk
Lien Record in any county of this state. In addition to any other remedy
provided by law, recording an order in the County Clerk Lien Record pursuant to
the provisions of this section has the effect provided for in ORS 205.125 and
205.126, and the order may be enforced as provided in ORS 205.125 and 205.126. 

       (6) Where the
wage claim arose out of work performed by the claimant for the employer on any
public works project to which ORS 279C.830 or 279C.840 applies, and a state
agency holds sufficient funds as retainage on such project to pay such claim or
any portion thereof, the state agency may, at the request of the commissioner,
pay to the commissioner from the retainage all or part of the amount due on the
claim under the final order. [1979 c.695 §4; 1981 c.594 §3; 1989 c.706 §19;
1995 c.82 §1; 1997 c.387 §6; 2003 c.794 §309; 2019 c.444 §3] 

   

       652.333 Wage
claims against licensed construction contractors and businesses; notice
requirements. 
(1)(a) If the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries receives a
valid wage claim filed against a contractor or a business subject to licensing
under ORS chapter 701 for unpaid wages, the commissioner shall notify the
Construction Contractors Board and the contractor or the business of the claim
within 30 days of the commissioner’s receipt of the claim. 

       (b) If wages are
found due and the contractor or business fails to pay the unpaid wages upon
demand, the commissioner shall serve upon the contractor or business an order
of determination as prescribed under ORS 652.332. 

       (2)(a) If an
order issued under ORS 652.332 for the payment of a wage claim described under
subsection (1) of this section becomes final, the commissioner shall notify the
board of the final order. 

       (b) The
commissioner shall notify the board if the contractor or business fails to pay
the amounts due pursuant to the final order within 60 days of the date of the
order, unless a motion to stay the order is pending or has been granted by the
commissioner under ORS 183.482. 

       (3) As used in
this section, “contractor” has the meaning given that term in ORS 701.005. [2019
c.444 §2] 

   

       652.335
Liability of liquor dispenser licensee for wage claims of certain individuals. (1) A person operating a
commercial establishment where food is cooked and served who holds a full
on-premises sales license issued under ORS 471.175 is liable for all valid wage
claims of individuals employed in the kitchen facilities and dining space of
such establishment who are not employed by such person, if the wage claims
cannot be enforced against the employer of such individuals. The Commissioner
of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may in such a case proceed under ORS
652.310 to 652.414 against the person operating the establishment as if that
person had employed the individuals assigning the wage claims. 

       (2) This section
does not impose any liability not otherwise imposed by law for compensation for
the performance of an individual’s personal services in excess of a period of
60 days, nor does it subject the person operating an establishment described in
this section to criminal penalties for violation of any law providing for
payment of wages. [1961 c.475 §2; 1999 c.351 §40] 

   

       652.340
Requiring bond of employer. 
(1) If upon investigation by the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and
Industries, after taking assignments of any wage claims under ORS 652.330, it
appears to the commissioner that the employer is representing to employees that
the employer is able to pay wages for their services and that the employees are
not being paid for their services, the commissioner may require the employer to
give a bond in such sum as the commissioner deems reasonable and adequate in
the circumstances, with sufficient surety, conditioned that the employer will
for a definite future period not exceeding six months conduct business and pay
employees in accordance with the laws of Oregon. 

       (2) If within 10
days after demand for such bond the employer fails to provide the same, the
commissioner may commence a suit against the employer in the circuit court of
appropriate jurisdiction to compel the employer to furnish such bond or cease
doing business until the employer has done so. The employer shall have the
burden of proving the amount thereof to be excessive. 

       (3) If the court
finds that there is just cause for requiring such bond and that the same is
reasonably necessary or appropriate to secure the prompt payment of the wages
of the employees of such employer and the employer’s compliance with ORS
652.310 to 652.414, the court shall enjoin such employer from doing business in
this state until the requirement is met, or shall make other, and may make
further, orders appropriate to compel compliance with the requirement. [Amended
by 1975 c.488 §5; 1991 c.331 §95; 1997 c.631 §515; 1999 c.69 §2] 

   

       652.350 [Repealed by 1979 c.695 §7] 

   

       652.355
Prohibition of discrimination because of wage claim or refusal to work additional
hours; remedy. (1)
An employer may not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against an
employee because: 

       (a) The employee
has made a wage claim or discussed, inquired about or consulted an attorney or
agency about a wage claim; 

       (b) The employee
has caused to be instituted any proceedings under or related to ORS 652.310 to
652.414; 

       (c) The employee
has testified or is about to testify in any such proceedings; 

       (d) The employee
has inquired about the provisions of ORS 652.020 or has reported a violation of
or filed a complaint related to ORS 652.020; 

       (e) The employee
has declined to consent to work more than 55 hours in any given workweek under
ORS 652.020 or 653.265; or 

       (f) The employee
has declined to consent to work more than 55 hours per workweek in any given
workweek during an undue hardship period under ORS 652.020 or 653.265. 

       (2) A violation
of this section is an unlawful employment practice under ORS chapter 659A. A
person unlawfully discriminated against under this section may file a complaint
under ORS 659A.820 with the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries.
[1975 c.397 §2; 1980 c.1 §1; 2007 c.278 §1; 2017 c.685 §3] 

   

       652.360
Contract exempting employer from liability or penalty not valid; exceptions. (1) An employer may not by special
contract or any other means exempt the employer from any provision of or
liability or penalty imposed by ORS 652.310 to 652.414 or any statute relating
to the payment of wages, except insofar as the Commissioner of the Bureau of
Labor and Industries in writing approves a special contract or other
arrangement between the employer and one or more of the employer’s employees.
The commissioner may not give approval unless the commissioner finds that such
contract or arrangement will not prejudicially affect the interest of the
public or of the employees involved, and the commissioner may at any time
retract such approval, first giving the employer not less than 30 days’ notice
in writing. 

       (2) A settlement
between an employer and an employee of a known and identified claim arising
under ORS 652.310 to 652.414 or any statute relating to the payment of wages
does not require the commissioner’s approval if the settlement does not provide
for the employee to relinquish a claim for additional or future violations. [Amended
by 2001 c.116 §1] 

   

       652.370
Jurisdiction of courts; proceedings in name of state. (1) Justice courts shall have
concurrent jurisdiction with circuit courts over all cases mentioned in ORS
652.330 or 652.340. 

       (2) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall prosecute all legal
proceedings on the commissioner’s own official relation, but in the name of the
State of Oregon. 

   

       652.380
Remedies cumulative; effect of payment or tender by employer after proceeding
commenced. (1) The
remedies provided by ORS 652.310 to 652.414 shall be additional to and not in
substitution for and in no manner impair other remedies and may be enforced
simultaneously or consecutively so far as not inconsistent with each other. 

       (2) No payment or
tender after the filing of a criminal complaint or commencement of any
proceeding by the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall
affect the liability therein of an employer for expenses, or prevent such
employer from being subject to fine or forfeitures, or to the giving of bond
under ORS 652.340. 

   

       652.390
Deduction of costs from wage claims; collection fees; assignment of wage
claims. (1) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may deduct and retain any
moneys collected on each wage claim as costs, attorney fees or commissioner’s
penalties. The amount deducted shall be paid into the General Fund after
deducting actual costs and disbursements incurred in the prosecution of the
wage claim. 

       (2) The
commissioner may charge a claimant or respondent on a wage claim for which the
commissioner has obtained a judgment the actual collection fees charged to the
Bureau of Labor and Industries by any other governmental agency assisting in
the collection of the judgment. 

       (3) The
commissioner is authorized to assign wage claim judgments and orders issued
pursuant to ORS 652.332 for collection or to obtain assistance in collection of
such judgments and orders and may deduct and pay out from any moneys so
collected a collection fee. [Amended by 1957 c.465 §7; 1967 c.218 §2; 1983
c.427 §1; 1995 c.82 §2; 2003 c.14 §394; 2009 c.162 §1] 

   

       652.400
Deposit of moneys in Wage Collection Account; payment to persons entitled
thereto. Subject
to ORS 652.390, all moneys collected on civil judgments pursuant to ORS
652.330, or as a result of administrative proceedings pursuant to ORS 652.332,
shall be paid to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries and,
together with all other sums collected under ORS 652.310 to 652.414, be
deposited in the State Treasury to become part of a special trust account to be
known as the Wage Collection Account, which account is established in the State
Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned by the
account shall be credited to the account. All moneys in the Wage Collection
Account are appropriated continuously for the purpose of payment to the persons
entitled thereto. [Amended by 1957 c.465 §8; 1979 c.695 §5; 1989 c.966 §65;
2011 c.597 §263] 

   

       652.405
Disposition of wages collected by commissioner when payment cannot be made to
person entitled thereto. 
(1) The Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall attempt for a
period of not less than three years to make payment of wages collected under
ORS 652.310 to 652.414 to the person entitled thereto. 

       (2) By July 30 of
each year, the commissioner shall pay wages collected by the commissioner under
ORS 652.310 to 652.414 and remaining unclaimed for a period of more than three
years from the date of collection to the State Treasurer as unclaimed property
under ORS 98.352 or, by October 1 of each year, transfer the wages to the State
Treasurer under ORS 293.455. The State Treasurer shall issue a receipt for the
money to the commissioner. [1957 c.465 §15; 2011 c.348 §3; 2019 c.678 §67; 2021
c.424 §28] 

   

 (Wage Security Fund) 

       652.409 Wage
Security Fund; use. 
(1) The Wage Security Fund is established separate and distinct from the
General Fund. After withholding the actual shared costs of the Employment
Department under ORS 657.462 (5)(b), all amounts received by the department
pursuant to ORS 657.462 (5)(a) shall be paid into the State Treasury and
credited to the Wage Security Fund. All income earned on moneys in the Wage
Security Fund invested by the State Treasurer shall accrue to the fund. 

       (2) All income
earned on moneys in the Wage Security Fund, and all other moneys in the fund,
are appropriated continuously to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and
Industries primarily to carry out the provisions of ORS 652.414. Moneys in the
fund may also be used, within the divisions of the Bureau of Labor and
Industries that enforce wage and hour laws and state laws concerning civil
rights, to investigate and enforce claims of underpaid and unpaid wages under
this chapter and ORS chapter 653 and to investigate conduct that may constitute
an unlawful practice under ORS chapter 659A. [1985 c.409 §4; 1987 c.412 §3;
1989 c.248 §1; 1989 c.554 §2; 2005 c.183 §9; 2016 c.115 §3; 2021 c.678 §14;
2024 c.76 §2] 

   

       652.410 [Repealed by 1977 c.618 §2] 

   

       652.414
Procedure for payment from fund; lien against personal property of employer;
penalties; rules. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law: 

       (1) When an
employee files a wage claim under this chapter for wages earned and unpaid, and
the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries: 

       (a) Determines
that the employer against whom the claim was filed has ceased doing business
and is without sufficient assets to pay the wage claim and the wage claim
cannot otherwise be fully and promptly paid, the commissioner, after
determining that the claim is valid, shall pay the claimant, to the extent
provided in subsection (2) of this section: 

       (A) The unpaid
amount of wages earned within 60 days before the date of the cessation of
business; or 

       (B) If the
claimant filed a wage claim before the cessation of business, the unpaid amount
of wages earned within 60 days before the last day the claimant was employed;
or 

       (b) Obtains a
judgment or issues a final order, including an order of determination that has
become final, under ORS 652.332 on the wage claim, the commissioner shall pay
the claimant, to the extent provided in subsection (2) of this section, the
amount of wages due pursuant to the judgment or the final order. 

       (2) The
commissioner shall pay the unpaid amount of wages earned as provided in
subsection (1) of this section only to the extent of $10,000 from such funds as
may be available pursuant to ORS 652.409 (2). 

       (3) The
commissioner may commence an appropriate action, suit or proceeding to recover
from the employer, or other persons or property liable for the unpaid wages,
amounts paid from the Wage Security Fund under subsection (1) of this section.
In addition to costs and disbursements, the commissioner is entitled to recover
reasonable attorney fees at trial and on appeal, together with a penalty of 25
percent of the amount of wages paid from the Wage Security Fund or $200,
whichever amount is the greater. All amounts recovered by the commissioner
under this subsection and subsection (4) of this section are appropriated
continuously to the commissioner to carry out the provisions of this section. 

       (4) The
commissioner has a lien on the personal property of the employer for the
benefit of the fund when the claim is paid under subsection (1) of this section
for the amount so paid and the penalty referred to in subsection (3) of this
section. The commissioner may cause to be filed a verified written notice of
claim of lien with the recording officer of the county in which the employer
has its principal place of business no later than 30 days after the date the
claim was paid under subsection (1) of this section. The notice of claim of
lien shall contain: 

       (a) A true
statement of the sums paid to wage claimants and the amount of the penalty
provided for in subsection (3) of this section; 

       (b) The name of
the owner of the personal property to be charged with the lien; 

       (c) A description
of the personal property to be charged with the lien sufficient for
identification. If a lien is being claimed against all personal property of the
employer, the description is sufficient if it states that all personal property
of the employer is covered; and 

       (d) The date the
wage claim was paid. 

       (5) Liens created
by subsection (4) of this section shall be recorded in the same manner as
provided for in ORS 87.246 and may be foreclosed in the manner provided for in
ORS 87.262. 

       (6) Liens created
by subsection (4) of this section shall have priority over any other liens or
security interests perfected after the date the notice of claim is filed with
the county recording officer under subsections (4) and (5) of this section. 

       (7) The
commissioner shall promulgate rules to carry out the provisions of this section
that include, but are not limited to, prescribing procedures for a timely and
cost efficient method for the payment of wage claims from the Wage Security
Fund and procedures for prorating wage claims if insufficient funds are
available for payment. 

       (8) Nothing in
this section is intended to require the commissioner to pay wage claims for
which moneys are not available under ORS 652.409 (2). [1985 c.409 §7; 1987
c.412 §1; 1989 c.554 §3; 1999 c.374 §1; 2019 c.444 §4; 2021 c.363 §1] 

   

 (Reciprocal Enforcement
of Wage Claims) 

   

       652.420
Definitions for ORS 652.420 to 652.445. (1) As used in ORS 652.420 to 652.445: 

       (a) “Commissioner”
means the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries. 

       (b) “Labor bureau”
includes any agency, bureau, commission, board or officer in another state that
performs functions substantially corresponding to those of the Commissioner of
the Bureau of Labor and Industries. 

       (2) The
definitions of ORS 652.310 and 652.320 shall apply to ORS 652.420 to 652.445,
but nothing contained in those sections shall be construed to preclude
reciprocal enforcement of wage claims under ORS 652.420 to 652.445, when the
services of the employee were rendered in another state. [1953 c.256 §1; 1987
c.158 §125; 2007 c.71 §205] 

   

       652.425
Authority of commissioner to enter into agreements with other states for
reciprocal enforcement of wage claims. 
The Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may enter into
agreements with the corresponding labor bureau of another state for the
reciprocal enforcement and collection of wage claims, if the other state has a
reciprocal statute similar to ORS 652.420 to 652.445 or otherwise authorizes
the reciprocal enforcement and collection of wage claims in a manner
substantially similar to ORS 652.420 to 652.445. [1953 c.256 §2] 

   

       652.430
Assigning wage claim to labor bureau of another state. Whenever a wage claim is assigned
to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries in trust pursuant to
ORS 652.330 and the employer or former employer upon whom demand for payment is
made by an employee in this state has removed to another state, the
commissioner may reassign the wage claim, with the approval of the employee, to
the labor bureau of the other state, if there is in effect at the time a valid
reciprocal agreement under ORS 652.425 between the commissioner and the other
state. [1953 c.256 §3] 

   

       652.435
Accepting assignments of wage claims from labor bureau of another state. Whenever a labor bureau in another
state, which has entered into a reciprocal agreement under ORS 652.425 with the
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries and the agreement is in
effect at the time, takes an assignment of a wage claim from an employee
residing in the other state for services rendered in the other state to an
employer or former employer who has removed to Oregon, the Commissioner of the
Bureau of Labor and Industries may take an assignment of the wage claim from
such labor bureau and enforce the collection thereof as provided in the
applicable provisions of ORS 652.310 to 652.414. [1953 c.256 §4; 2003 c.14 §395] 

   

       652.440
Retention by commissioner or labor bureau of percentage of funds collected. Any agreement concluded by the
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall make provision for the
transfer of funds collected pursuant to ORS 652.420 to 652.445 and for
retention by the commissioner or the labor bureau in the other state of
percentile amounts from the sums collected to defray the administrative costs
of ORS 652.420 to 652.445. Amounts authorized pursuant to this section to be
used to defray the administrative costs of ORS 652.420 to 652.445 shall be
credited to the Bureau of Labor and Industries Account and shall be used only
for the administration of ORS 652.420 to 652.445. [1953 c.256 §5; 1957 c.465 §9] 

   

       652.445
Deposit of moneys in Wage Collection Account. Except as provided in ORS 652.440, all moneys
collected pursuant to ORS 652.420 to 652.445, including costs, shall be paid to
the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries and be deposited in the
State Treasury in the Wage Collection Account established by ORS 652.400. [1953
c.256 §6; 1957 c.465 §10; 2011 c.597 §264] 

   

 PRIORITY OF WAGE CLAIMS 

   

       652.500
Receiver to pay accrued wages; payment of employees; receiver’s certificates. Whenever the business or property
of any person, company or corporation in this state shall be placed by any
court in this state in the hands of a receiver, whether upon foreclosure or
creditor’s bill, the receiver shall report immediately to the court appointing
the receiver the amount due by the person, company or corporation, at the date
of the receiver’s appointment, to employees and laborers of the person, company
or corporation. The court shall order the receiver to pay out of the first
receipts and earnings of such person, company or corporation, after paying
current operating expenses under the administration of the receiver, the wages
of all employees and laborers that had accrued within six months prior to the
appointment of the receiver. The court also shall order the receiver to pay the
wages of all employees and laborers employed by the receiver, at least once
every 30 days, out of the first receipts and earnings of the person, company or
corporation while under the management of the receiver. However, should the
receiver not take in sufficient money from receipts and earnings to pay the
employees and laborers at least once every 30 days, the receiver shall issue
and deliver to each of the employees and laborers, upon demand, a receiver’s
certificate, showing the amount due the employee or laborer in money, which
certificate will draw interest at the rate of eight percent per annum from the
date of issuance until paid. The receiver shall thereafter pay such
certificates, in the order of their issuance, out of the first money coming
into the receiver’s hands from the receipts and earnings of the properties
under the charge of the receiver. [Formerly 31.050; 2003 c.14 §396] 

   

       Note: 652.500 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 652
or any series therein by legislative action. See the Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       652.510
Payment of wage claims by receivers, assignees or court; filing statement of
wages due. (1)
When the property of any company, cooperative association, corporation, firm or
person is seized upon by any process of any court of this state, or when the
business or property is placed in the hands of a receiver, or whenever any
assignment for the benefit of creditors under the laws of this state is made,
then in all such cases the debts owing to laborers or employees, which have
accrued by reason of their labor or employment to an amount not exceeding
$2,000 to each employee for work or labor performed within 90 days next
preceding the seizure or transfer or assignment of such property, or
appointment of said receiver shall be considered and treated as preferred
debts, and such laborers or employees shall be preferred creditors, and shall
first be paid in full, and if there is not sufficient to pay them in full,
their claims shall be paid pro rata, after paying costs. 

       (2) Any such
laborer or employee desiring to enforce the claim of the laborer or employee
for wages under ORS 652.510 to 652.570 shall present a statement under oath
showing the amount due after allowing all just credits and setoffs, the kind of
work for which said wages are due and when performed, to the officer or person
charged with the execution of said process, within 30 days after the seizure
thereof on any execution or writ of attachment, or to such receiver or assignee
within 45 days after the same may have been placed in the hands of any such
assignee or receiver. [Amended by 1977 c.288 §1; 1981 c.594 §4; 1987 c.412 §2;
2003 c.14 §397] 

   

       652.515 Effect
of Oregon Receivership Code. 
If applicable under ORS 37.040, the Oregon Receivership Code controls over
conflicting provisions of ORS 652.510 to 652.570. [2017 c.358 §55] 

   

       652.520 Form
of statement of wage claim. 
The statement to be presented under ORS 652.510 shall be substantially in the
following form: 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

   

 State of Oregon           ) 

                                     )           ss. 

 County of _____,        ) 

   

       I, _____, being
first duly sworn, say that _____ is 

 indebted to me in the
sum of ___ dollars over and above all just credits and setoffs, on account of
work, services and labor performed by me for the said _____, upon the following
terms and conditions, to wit: That I was employed by the said _____ on or about
the ___ day of _____, 2__, to work (here describe character of work) at the
rate of ___ dollars per month (or for a reasonable consideration for such
work), and that under said contract I began to work on the ___ day of _____, 2__,
and between that day and the ___ day of ______, 2__, I performed work, services
and labor ___ days, amounting to the sum of ___ dollars (or the reasonable
value of ___ dollars); that the said _____ has paid me on account of the
said labor the sum of ___ dollars, and no more; and that there is now due
me, the sum of ___ dollars, over and above all just credits and offsets; and
that during the 90 days next preceding the ___ day of _____, 2__, I had
performed ___ days’ labor under said contract, amounting to the sum of ___
dollars (or that said services were reasonably worth the sum of ___ dollars);
and that, applying all the credits above stated, there is due me from the said ______,
on account of labor for the said 90 days, the sum of ___ dollars, and no more;
claim as due me. 

       Subscribed and
sworn to before me this ___ day of _____, 2__. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

   

       652.530
Serving copy of statement; report to court; order of payment. (1) The person claiming the
benefit of ORS 652.510 to 652.570 shall serve upon the debtor, or upon the
officer, assignee or receiver for the debtor where personal service cannot be
had, a copy of the verified claim. Thereafter the person receiving such statement
shall report the amount of such claim to the court having jurisdiction of such
officer, receiver or assignee, together with a statement of all costs
occasioned by the seizure of said property or of such receivership or
assignment. 

       (2) The court
shall order such claims to be paid after payment of the costs and expenses of
such seizure and sale, and the costs and disbursements which have accrued
before the filing of the notice under ORS 652.510 and of assignment or
receivership, out of the proceeds of the sale of the property so seized,
assigned, or placed in the hands of an assignee or receiver. 

   

       652.540
Exception to claim; legal action on claim. (1) Any person interested may contest all or any part
of a claim mentioned in ORS 652.530, by filing in said court exceptions
thereto, supported by affidavit, within 10 days from the filing of the report
provided in ORS 652.530. Thereupon the claimant shall be required to establish
the claim, by judgment in such court, before any part thereof shall be paid. 

       (2) When any
claim is excepted to as provided in this section, the person desiring to
establish the same shall file in said court, within 30 days after the claim is
excepted to, a verified complaint as in an action at law and serve it upon the
person excepting, or the person’s attorney of record, and upon the principal
debtor for the claim, or the principal debtor’s attorney of record. 

       (3) Thereafter
the cause shall proceed to final judgment between the parties as an action at
law. 

   

       652.550
Payment of claims prerequisite to discharge of attachment or execution,
assignee or receiver, or to abandonment of seizure or sale. No attachment or execution shall
be discharged nor shall the seizure or sale of property seized be abandoned, or
assignee or receiver discharged, until every claimant presenting a claim under
ORS 652.510 to 652.570 has been paid in full, or pro rata, as provided in ORS
652.510, or has consented to such discharge or abandonment. 

   

       652.560 Costs
and attorney fees. 
Whenever any claim has been excepted to under ORS 652.540 and the claim is
established by judgment and the court rendering the judgment is satisfied that
the exceptions were made without probable cause or that the person so excepting
could have ascertained with reasonable diligence that such claim was true and
just, the claimant in such action shall be entitled to have the costs of such
action, and such sum as the court may adjudge reasonable as attorney fees at
trial and on appeal, enforced by execution against the person objecting as a
judgment debtor in the first instance. However, if the court does not so find,
or if execution, when issued, is returned nulla bona, then in either case such
costs and attorney fees shall be ordered paid out of the proceeds of the
property sold next after the payment of all claims presented under ORS 652.510
to 652.570. [Amended by 1981 c.897 §89] 

   

       652.570
Priority of wage claims over transfers in payment of preexisting obligations;
payment and subrogation of transferee. 
(1) Every sale or transfer of any property in payment of any preexisting debt,
or obligation, and every mortgage or lien created or executed to secure the
payment of a preexisting debt, shall be void as against laborers or employees
of such vendor, mortgagor, or other lien debtor, to the extent of their claims
for wages, in the amount of $2,000, or 30 days of wages, whichever amount is
the greater, to each of said laborers which may be owing for work or labor
performed within 90 days next preceding such sale and transfer or the execution
of such lien or mortgage, if the laborer or employee claiming the benefit of
this section: 

       (a) Within 10
days after the actual delivery of the property or within 30 days after the
recording of any such deed, transfer, mortgage or lien, gives such owner or
holder of such lien or such vendee notice of the claim of the laborer or
employee substantially in the form and verified as provided in ORS 652.520,
which notice shall be served by delivering it or a copy thereof to such owner
or holder of such lien or such vendee in person or, in case the owner, holder
or vendee cannot be found within the county in which such lien or deed may be
of record after diligent inquiry, by delivering the notice or a copy thereof to
the clerk of the county court for such owner or holder of such lien or such
vendee; and 

       (b) Within 30
days after the notice of claim is served commences court action to pursue the
claim. 

       (2) The vendee or
mortgage or lienholder, or an assignee, may pay such claim and thereby be
subrogated to the rights and lien of such laborer or employee, as against the
vendor, principal debtor or mortgagor, and as against subsequent mortgagees or
other subsequent lien creditors. 

       (3) This section
does not apply to any mortgage or lien given in renewal of a preexisting
mortgage or lien. [Amended by 1977 c.288 §2; 1989 c.651 §1] 

   

       652.580 [Repealed by 1981 c.898 §53] 

   

 STATEMENTS RELATING TO
EMPLOYEE’S SALARY AND DEDUCTIONS 

   

 (Generally) 

   

       652.610
Itemized statement of amounts and purposes of deductions; timely payment to
recipient of amounts deducted; employer duty to provide written explanation of
earnings and deductions. 
(1)(a) All persons, firms, partnerships, associations, cooperative
associations, corporations, municipal corporations, the state and its political
subdivisions, except the federal government and its agencies, employing, in
this state, during any calendar month one or more persons, shall provide the
employee on regular paydays and at other times payment of wages, salary or
commission is made, with an itemized statement as described in paragraph (b) of
this subsection. 

       (b) The statement
required under this subsection must be a written statement, sufficiently
itemized to show: 

       (A) The date of
the payment; 

       (B) The dates of
work covered by the payment; 

       (C) The name of
the employee; 

       (D) The name and
business registry number or business identification number; 

       (E) The address
and telephone number of the employer; 

       (F) The rate or
rates of pay; 

       (G) Whether the
employee is paid by the hour, shift, day or week or on a salary, piece or
commission basis; 

       (H) Gross wages; 

       (I) Net wages; 

       (J) The amount
and purpose of each deduction made during the respective period of service that
the payment covers; 

       (K) Allowances,
if any, claimed as part of minimum wage; 

       (L) Unless the
employee is paid on a salary basis and is exempt from overtime compensation as
established by local, state or federal law, the regular hourly rate or rates of
pay, the overtime rate or rates of pay, the number of regular hours worked and
pay for those hours, and the number of overtime hours worked and pay for those
hours; and 

       (M) If the
employee is paid a piece rate, the applicable piece rate or rates of pay, the
number of pieces completed at each piece rate and the total pay for each rate. 

       (c)
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this subsection, the employer may provide the
statement required under this subsection to the employee in electronic form
pursuant to ORS 84.001 to 84.061 if: 

       (A) The statement
contains the information described in paragraph (b) of this subsection; 

       (B) The employee
expressly agrees to receive the statement in electronic form; and 

       (C) The employee
has the ability to print or store the statement at the time of receipt. 

       (2)(a) The
statement may be attached to or be a part of the check, draft, voucher or other
instrument by which payment is made, or may be delivered separately from the
instrument. 

       (b) The statement
shall be provided electronically at the time payment is made to all state
officers and employees paid electronically under the state payroll system as
provided by ORS 292.026. 

       (c) State
agencies shall provide access to electronic statements to employees who do not
have regular access to computers in their workplace. 

       (d)
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this subsection, if an officer or employee
paid under the state payroll system as provided by ORS 292.026 wants to receive
payment of net salary and wages by check or to receive a paper statement of
itemized payroll deductions, the officer or employee shall request paper
statements or payment by check in accordance with the procedures adopted by
rule by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services. 

       (3) An employer
may not withhold, deduct or divert any portion of an employee’s wages unless: 

       (a) The employer
is required to do so by law; 

       (b) The
deductions are voluntarily authorized in writing by the employee, are for the
employee’s benefit and are recorded in the employer’s books; 

       (c) The employee
has voluntarily signed an authorization for a deduction for any other item,
provided that the ultimate recipient of the money withheld is not the employer
and that the deduction is recorded in the employer’s books; 

       (d) The deduction
is authorized by a collective bargaining agreement to which the employer is a
party; 

       (e) The deduction
is authorized under ORS 18.736; or 

       (f) The deduction
is made from the payment of wages upon termination of employment and is
authorized pursuant to a written agreement between the employee and employer
for the repayment of a loan made to the employee by the employer, if all of the
following conditions are met: 

       (A) The employee
has voluntarily signed the agreement; 

       (B) The loan was
paid to the employee in cash or other medium permitted by ORS 652.110; 

       (C) The loan was
made solely for the employee’s benefit and was not used, either directly or
indirectly, for any purpose required by the employer or connected with the
employee’s employment with the employer; 

       (D) The amount of
the deduction at termination of employment does not exceed the amount permitted
to be garnished under ORS 18.385; and 

       (E) The deduction
is recorded in the employer’s books. 

       (4) When an
employer deducts an amount from an employee’s wages as required or authorized
by law or agreement, the employer shall pay the amount deducted to the
appropriate recipient as required by the law or agreement. The employer shall
pay the amount deducted within the time required by the law or the agreement
or, if the time for payment is not specified by the law or agreement, within
seven days after the date the wages from which the deductions are made are due.
Failure to pay the amount as required constitutes an unlawful deduction. 

       (5)(a) An
employer shall provide to all employees, at the time of hire, a written
explanation of earnings and deductions shown on the itemized statements
required under subsection (1) of this section. The explanation must include
general information on: 

       (A) The employer’s
established regular pay period. 

       (B) A
comprehensive list of: 

       (i) All types of
pay rates that employees may be eligible for, including hourly pay, salary pay,
shift differentials, piece-rate pay and commission-based pay. 

       (ii) All benefit
deductions and contributions. 

       (iii) Every type
of deduction that may apply. 

       (C) The purpose
of deductions that may be made during a regular pay period. 

       (D) Allowances,
if any, claimed as part of minimum wage. 

       (E)
Employer-provided benefits that may appear on the itemized statements as
contributions and deductions. 

       (F) All payroll
codes used for pay rates and deductions, along with a detailed description or
definition of each code. 

       (b) An employer
may satisfy the requirements of this subsection by making the information
available to employees in a location easily accessible to them, such as a link
to a website, a physical document posted in a central location, a shared
electronic file or delivery by electronic mail. 

       (c) The
information required under this subsection must be sufficiently detailed to
explain pay rates and deduction codes, but need not be written in complete
sentences. 

       (d) An employer
shall review and update the information required under this subsection by
January 1 of each year. 

       (6) The Bureau of
Labor and Industries shall: 

       (a) Develop and
make available to employers a model written guidance document that includes
commonly used statewide deductions and that employers may use and customize to
satisfy the requirements under subsection (5) of this section; 

       (b) Provide the
model written guidance document in English and in Spanish; and 

       (c) To the extent
practicable, translate the model written guidance document in other languages,
if so requested. 

       (7) This section
does not: 

       (a) Prohibit the
withholding of amounts authorized in writing by the employee to be contributed
by the employee to charitable organizations, including contributions made
pursuant to ORS 663.110; 

       (b) Prohibit
deductions by checkoff dues to labor organizations or service fees when the
deductions are not otherwise prohibited by law; or 

       (c) Diminish or
enlarge the right of any person to assert and enforce a lawful setoff or
counterclaim or to attach, take, reach or apply an employee’s compensation on
due legal process. [Amended by 1977 c.618 §1; 1980 s.s. c.1 §2; 1981 c.594 §5;
1995 c.753 §2; 2001 c.249 §78; 2003 c.779 §5; 2007 c.676 §1; 2013 c.369 §5;
2016 c.115 §1; 2019 c.429 §15; 2025 c.235 §1] 

   

       652.615 Remedy
for violation of ORS 652.610. 
There is hereby created a private cause of action for a violation of ORS
652.610 (3) for actual damages or $200, whichever is greater. In any such
action the court may award to the prevailing party, in addition to costs and
disbursements, reasonable attorney fees. [1981 c.594 §7] 

   

       652.620
Statement of yearly compensation on request of employee. All persons, firms, partnerships,
associations, cooperative associations, corporations, municipal corporations,
the state and its political subdivisions thereof, except the federal government
and its agencies employing, in this state, five or more persons, during any
calendar month, upon the request of any employee or former employee, and upon
five days’ notice to said employer shall give to such employee, not later than
March 10 of each year, a statement showing the total compensation paid by such
employer to such employee, or former employee, during the previous calendar
year. 

   

       652.625
Deductions for erroneous overpayment of wages to public employees; written
statements required. 
(1) As used in this section, “public employee” and “public employer” have the
meanings given those terms under ORS 243.650. 

       (2) When a public
employee receives an erroneous overpayment of wages in an amount greater than
the employee’s entitlement, the public employer may deduct the amount of the
overpayment from wages earned by the public employee provided that: 

       (a) The deduction
is for an overpayment that occurred during the 364-day period immediately
preceding the date on which the public employer provides to the public employee
the written statements described under paragraph (b) of this subsection; and 

       (b) The public
employer provides the following to the public employee at least 10 calendar
days before making the deduction: 

       (A) A written
statement itemizing the overpayment amount and purpose of each deduction; 

       (B) A written
statement that provides that in no event may the total amount of a deduction
exceed five percent of the public employee’s gross pay each pay period, unless
the public employee otherwise requests and specifies that a greater percentage
or amount be deducted; and 

       (C) A written
statement informing the public employee that, if the public employee is
terminated or otherwise separates from employment, the public employer can
recoup the balance owed from the public employee’s final paycheck. [2025 c.602 §1] 

   

       Note: 652.625 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 652
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

 (Agricultural Workers) 

   

       652.630
Definitions for ORS 652.630 to 652.640. As used in ORS 652.630 to 652.640, unless the context
requires otherwise: 

       (1) “Bonus” means
an increase in the agreed rate of compensation based on the amount of time
worked during a perishable agricultural product season or based on the amount
of a perishable agricultural product that is harvested. 

       (2) “Labor
contractor” means a farm labor contractor as defined in ORS 658.405. 

       (3) “Producer”
means a person who raises perishable agricultural products. [1969 c.572 §1] 

   

       Note: 652.630 to 652.640 were enacted
into law by the Legislative Assembly but were not added to or made a part of
ORS chapter 652 by legislative action. See the Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       652.635
Producers to post certain terms of employment. Every producer, or agent of the
producer, who employs a labor contractor to provide a working crew for
harvesting perishable agricultural products or who offers a bonus to those
persons who harvest perishable agricultural products shall cause to be conspicuously
posted and maintained on the premises where the agricultural products are to be
harvested a notice that states: 

       (1) A description
of the terms and conditions of any bonus offered, including the manner of
determining when the bonus is earned. 

       (2) That portion
of the labor contractor’s compensation that is based on the amount of work done
by each employee of the labor contractor. [1969 c.572 §2] 

   

       Note: See note under 652.630. 

   

       652.640
Itemized statement of compensation and deductions required. Each time a person who harvests
perishable agricultural products receives compensation payments at a regular
pay period or upon termination of employment, the producer, or agent of the
producer, or, if the person is an employee of a labor contractor, the labor
contractor shall furnish to such person a written statement itemizing the total
payment and each deduction therefrom. [1969 c.572 §3] 

   

       Note: See note under 652.630. 

   

 FEES OR DEDUCTIONS FOR
MEDICAL CARE 

   

       652.710 Fees
collected by employer for medical care contracts are trust funds; priority on
liquidation; civil penalty; rules. 
(1) All moneys collected by an employer from employees or retained from their
wages for the purpose of providing for or furnishing to such employees medical
and surgical attention, hospital care, X-rays, ambulance, nursing or any
related service or care contingent upon sickness or injury pursuant to a
contract are trust funds and shall be placed and kept in separate accounts by
the employer and shall promptly be paid over to the contractor. Such funds
shall in no event become a part of the assets of the employer. 

       (2) If the
employer fails to place and keep such funds in separate accounts and pay them
over to the contractor or if the funds become commingled with the funds of the
employer and the employer becomes bankrupt, insolvent or goes through voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, or if a receiver is appointed to operate or
liquidate the affairs of the employer, the funds not paid to the contractor
shall be entitled to the same preference as given to claims of the State
Accident Insurance Fund Corporation, as provided in ORS 656.562. 

       (3) On and after
July 1, 1992, when an employer that is a group health insurance policyholder
subject to the provisions of ORS 743B.320 receives notice that the group health
insurance policy is terminated by the insurer and the employer does not replace
coverage with any other group health insurance policy, the employer shall
notify all employees who were covered under the terminated group policy. The
employer’s notification to the employees shall: 

       (a) Explain the
employee’s rights regarding continuation or conversion of coverage under state
and federal law; and 

       (b) Be delivered
to each employee in person or to the employee’s home address as recorded in the
employer’s records not later than 10 working days after the receipt of notice
from the insurer pursuant to ORS 743B.320 (3) to (5). 

       (4) In addition
to any other penalty provided by law, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor
and Industries may assess a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 for each
violation of subsection (1) or (3) of this section. 

       (5) Civil
penalties under this section shall be imposed as provided in ORS 183.745. 

       (6) All sums
collected as penalties pursuant to this section shall be first applied toward
reimbursement of the costs incurred in determining the violations, conducting
hearings under this section and assessing and collecting such penalties. The
remainder, if any, of the sums collected as penalties pursuant to this section
shall be paid over by the commissioner to the Department of State Lands for the
benefit of the Common School Fund of this state. The department shall issue a
receipt for the money to the commissioner. 

       (7) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries may adopt rules reasonably
necessary for the administration of this section. [Formerly 655.130; 1991 c.673
§1; 1991 c.734 §114; 2001 c.943 §15] 

   

       652.720
Prohibited use by employer of fees for medical care contracts withheld from
employee wages. 
(1) No employer shall retain, directly or indirectly, from employees or from
their wages any part of the money collected or retained under ORS 652.710 for
use or benefit of the employer. 

       (2) No employer
shall apply, directly or indirectly, any portion of the money so collected to
the employer’s cost of compensation or to the cost of any medical, surgical or
hospital care and attention for employees on account of injuries sustained by
them in the course of their employment. [Formerly 655.110] 

   

 PERSONNEL RECORDS 

   

       652.750
Inspection of records by employee; furnishing copy to employee; disposition of
record on termination of employment; charge for copies; public safety officer
records. (1) As
used in this section: 

       (a) “Employer”
has the meaning given that term in ORS 656.005. 

       (b) “Personnel
records” does not include records of an individual relating to the conviction,
arrest or investigation of conduct constituting a violation of the criminal
laws of this state or another state or the United States, confidential reports
from previous employers or records maintained in compliance with ORS 352.226. 

       (c) “Public
safety officer” has the meaning given that term in ORS 236.350. 

       (d) “Time and pay
records” means payroll records and other records and data described under the
administrative rules established by the Bureau of Labor and Industries pursuant
to ORS 653.010 to 653.261. 

       (2) Except as
provided in subsection (7) of this section, within 45 days after receipt of an
employee’s request, an employer shall provide reasonable opportunity for the
employee to inspect, at the place of employment or place of work assignment,
the personnel records of the employee that are used or have been used to
determine the employee’s qualification for employment, promotion, additional
compensation, employment termination or other disciplinary action and time and
pay records of the employee for the period required by the Fair Labor Standards
Act, 29 U.S.C. 211(c), and accompanying regulations. Within 45 days after
receipt of the employee’s request, the employer shall furnish a certified copy
of the records. 

       (3) Upon
termination of employment, the employer shall keep: 

       (a) The
terminated employee’s personnel records for not less than 60 days. 

       (b) The
terminated employee’s time and pay records for not less than the period
required by the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. 211(c), and accompanying
regulations. 

       (4)
Notwithstanding the time periods described in subsection (2) of this section,
if the employee’s personnel records or time and pay records are not readily
available, the employer and the employee may agree to extend the time within
which the employer must provide the employee reasonable opportunity to inspect
the records or furnish the employee a certified copy of the records. 

       (5) For the
services referred to in subsection (2) of this section only, an employer may
charge an employee no more than an amount reasonably calculated to recover the
actual cost of providing the services. 

       (6)(a) Except as
provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection, an employer may not
place an adverse comment in the personnel records of a public safety officer
unless the officer has first read and signed the document containing the
adverse comment. 

       (b) If a public
safety officer refuses to sign a document containing an adverse comment, the
employer may place the document in the officer’s personnel records with a
notation that the document was presented to the officer and the officer refused
to sign it. 

       (c) If a public
safety officer is not available to read and sign the document containing an
adverse comment at the work location where the personnel files are maintained,
the employer may place the document in the officer’s personnel records and mail
a copy of the document to the officer by regular mail or interoffice mail. 

       (d) A public
safety officer may write a response within 30 days of being presented with a
document containing an adverse comment. If a public safety officer writes a
response to a document containing an adverse comment, the response must be
attached to the original document and placed in the officer’s personnel
records. 

       (7)(a) Upon
request, a public safety officer may inspect the officer’s own personnel
records at a reasonable time at the location where the records are kept by the
employer. 

       (b) If, after
inspection, a public safety officer believes that any portion of the material
is mistakenly or unlawfully placed in the officer’s personnel records, the
officer may request in writing that the mistaken or unlawful material be
corrected or deleted. The request must describe the corrections or deletions
requested and the reasons supporting the request and provide any documentation
that supports the request. The employer shall respond within 30 days from the
date the request is received. If the employer does not correct or delete the
material, the employer shall place the request and the employer’s response to
the request in the officer’s personnel records. [1977 c.861 §2; 1985 c.404 §6;
2007 c.276 §1; 2009 c.716 §4; 2016 c.115 §2] 

   

       652.752
Federal inspections of employee verification records; employer to provide
employees with advance notice of inspection. (1) As used in this section and ORS 652.753, “employee”
and “employer” have the meanings given those terms in ORS 652.210. 

       (2) Unless
prohibited by federal law, an employer shall, within three business days of
receiving a notice of an inspection from a federal agency compelling the
employer to provide access to records of forms and any other documentation used
by the employer to verify the identity and employment eligibility of the
employees hired by the employer, notify the employer’s employees of the
upcoming inspection. 

       (3) The employer
shall notify employees of an upcoming inspection by: 

       (a) Posting a notice
in a conspicuous and accessible location, in English and in the language the
employer typically uses to communicate with the employees; and 

       (b) Making
reasonable attempts to individually distribute notifications to employees in
the employee’s preferred language. 

       (4) The notice
shall include: 

       (a) A copy of the
federal agency’s notice of inspection received by the employer; 

       (b) The date of
the inspection; 

       (c) To the extent
the employer knows, the scope of the federal agency’s inspection; 

       (d) The employer’s
obligations with respect to providing information within the scope of the
federal agency’s notice of inspection; and 

       (e) A telephone
number, prescribed by the Bureau of Labor and Industries, for a hotline
operated by an organization that provides information and advocacy related to
immigrant and refugee workers’ rights. [2019 c.260 §1] 

   

       Note: 652.752 and 652.753 were enacted
into law by the Legislative Assembly but were not added to or made a part of
ORS chapter 652 or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to
Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       652.753
Commissioner of Bureau of Labor and Industries to generate notice template for
employers. The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall generate and make
available on the Bureau of Labor and Industries website a template for a notice
that employers may use to comply with the requirements of ORS 652.752. The
commissioner shall make the template available in English and in each of the
five most widely used non-English languages in this state. The commissioner
shall update the languages for which the templates are available every five
years. [2019 c.260 §2] 

   

       Note: See note under 652.752. 

   

 EARNED INCOME TAX
CREDITS 

   

       652.755 Rules
regarding notice to employees about state and federal earned income tax
credits. (1) As
used in this section, “employer” has the meaning given that term in ORS
652.210. 

       (2) The
Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor and Industries shall adopt rules, in
collaboration with business representatives and with groups that advocate for
low income people, to require employers to provide written notice to each
employee about the state and federal earned income tax credits. The notice
must: 

       (a) Be in English
and in the language the employer typically uses to communicate with the
employee. 

       (b) Be sent
annually with the employee’s federal form W-2. 

       (c) Provide
website addresses for the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of
Revenue where the employee can find information about the state and federal
earned income tax credits. 

       (3) The Bureau of
Labor and Industries shall include, in any poster regarding the state minimum
wage, notice to employees about the state and federal earned income tax
credits. [2017 c.333 §1] 

   

       Note: 652.755 was enacted into law by
the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 652
or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised
Statutes for further explanation. 

   

 PENALTIES 

   

       652.900 Civil
penalties. (1) In
addition to any other penalty provided by law, the Commissioner of the Bureau
of Labor and Industries may assess a civil penalty not to exceed: 

       (a) $1,000
against any person who violates ORS 652.020, 652.110, 652.140, 652.145,
652.260, 652.610 (4) or 652.750 or any rule adopted under those statutes. 

       (b) $500 against
any person who violates ORS 652.610 (5) or any rule adopted under that statute. 

       (2) Civil
penalties under this section shall be imposed as provided in ORS 183.745. 

       (3) All sums
collected as penalties under this section shall be first applied toward
reimbursement of costs incurred in determining the violations, conducting
hearings under this section and addressing and collecting the penalties. The
remainder, if any, of the sums collected as penalties under this section shall
be paid into the State Treasury and credited to the General Fund and is
available for general governmental expenses. [1989 c.852 §3; 1991 c.734 §59;
2001 c.690 §2; 2007 c.276 §2; 2007 c.546 §3; 2007 c.676 §2; 2009 c.141 §3; 2025
c.235 §2] 

   

       652.990
Criminal penalties. 
(1) Violation of ORS 652.020 (5)(b) or (d) is a Class A violation. Every day’s
violation is deemed a separate offense. 

       (2) Any person,
body corporate, general manager or employer who violates ORS 652.040 or causes
ORS 652.040 to be violated commits a Class C misdemeanor. 

       (3) Violation of
ORS 652.110 or 652.120 is a Class A violation. 

       (4) Violation of
ORS 652.130 by any employer is a Class C misdemeanor. 

       (5) In addition
to the civil damages recoverable under ORS 652.230, violation of ORS 652.210 to
652.235 is a Class A misdemeanor. 

       (6) The violation
of ORS 652.240 is a Class A misdemeanor. 

       (7) Violation of
ORS 652.355 is a Class C misdemeanor. 

       (8) Violation of
ORS 652.610 or 652.620 is a Class D violation. 

       (9) Willful
violation of ORS 652.635 or 652.640 by a producer or agent of the producer is a
Class A misdemeanor. 

       (10) Violation of
any of the provisions of ORS 652.710 or 652.720 by any employer is a Class A
violation. [Subsection (5) enacted as 1955 c.193 §4; subsection (6) enacted as
1957 c.243 §2; subsection (9) formerly 655.990; subsection (8) enacted as 1969
c.572 §4; 1975 c.397 §5; 1999 c.1051 §215; 2011 c.597 §265; 2017 c.685 §14;
2022 c.22 §2] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
