 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
101 — Continuing Care Retirement Communities 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT
COMMUNITIES 

   

 PROPERTY RIGHTS AND TRANSACTIONS 

   

 101.010     Policy 

   

 101.020     Definitions 

   

 101.030     Registration of
continuing care retirement community providers 

   

 101.040     Registration fees 

   

 101.050     Preparation of
disclosure statement by provider; notice and review of statement by prospective
residents; contents of statement 

   

 101.052     Annual disclosure
statement 

   

 101.060     Provider to maintain
financial reserves; amount; escrow account; withdrawal from reserves 

   

 101.065     Provider liquidation;
resident claims preferred 

   

   

 101.070     Escrow account required
for registration of new continuing care retirement community; entrance fees in
escrow; use of escrow funds 

   

 101.080     When resident eligible
for refund of entrance fee; notice to resident 

   

 101.090     Exemption of closed bed
facilities from certificate of need review; exception 

   

 101.100     Transfer of
registration 

   

 101.110     Revocation of
registration; findings 

   

 101.112     Required meetings with
residents; notice of change in fees or services 

   

 101.115     Resident rights 

   

 101.120     Power of department to
prevent violations; cease and desist order; injunction 

   

 101.140     Advisory council;
membership; compensation; duties 

   

 101.150     Duties of Department of
Human Services; complaint procedure; rules 

   

 101.160     Short title 

   

       101.010
Policy. The
Legislative Assembly finds that continuing care retirement communities are an
important and necessary alternative for the long term residential, social and
health maintenance needs for many of Oregon’s senior citizens. The Legislative
Assembly recognizes the need for disclosure with respect to the terms of
agreements between residents, prospective residents and the provider. The
Legislative Assembly also recognizes the need to establish reserves and escrow
requirements to provide adequate standards for the development and operation of
continuing care retirement communities. Accordingly, the Legislative Assembly
has determined that these providers should be registered and should establish
reserves and escrows in accordance with this chapter. [1989 c.693 §2] 

   

       101.020
Definitions. As
used in this chapter: 

       (1) “Affiliated
organization” means any profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, sole proprietorship, sponsoring entity or other form of
legal entity: 

       (a) That is the
lessor of the real property on which the facilities of the provider are
situated; 

       (b) That a
provider has identified in its disclosure statement pursuant to ORS 101.050
(1)(e); or 

       (c) In which any
director or executive officer of a provider or of any manager of a provider has
an equity or debtor financial interest in excess of $10,000. 

       (2) “Applicant”
means a provider that has submitted an application and disclosure statement to
register as a continuing care retirement community. 

       (3) “Application
fee” means a fee charged to an individual or individuals, prior to execution of
a residency agreement, apart from an entrance fee. 

       (4) “Audited
financial statement” means a provider’s financial statement that has been
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that
has been audited by an independent certified public accountant in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards and includes notes to the financial
statement that state whether or not the continuing care retirement community is
in compliance with its reserve requirements. 

       (5) “Closed bed
long term care facility” means a licensed long term care facility in a
continuing care retirement community that is used exclusively by individuals
receiving long term care services under a residency agreement. 

       (6) “Continuing
care” means directly furnishing or indirectly making available, upon payment of
an entrance fee and under a residency agreement, housing and health related
services for a period greater than one year to an individual not related by
blood or marriage to the continuing care retirement community provider that is
furnishing care. 

       (7) “Continuing
care retirement community” or “CCRC” means any provider that is registered with
the Department of Human Services and agrees to furnish continuing care to a
resident under a residency agreement. 

       (8) “Entrance fee”
means an initial or deferred transfer to a provider of a sum of money or other
property made or promised to be made as full or partial consideration for
acceptance of one or more residents in a continuing care retirement community.
A fee that is less than the sum of the regular periodic charges for one year of
residency is not an entrance fee. 

       (9) “Health
related services” includes, but is not limited to, nursing care, assistance
with activities of daily living, long term care and rehabilitative services. 

       (10) “Living unit”
means a room, apartment, cottage or other area set aside for the exclusive use
of the resident. 

       (11) “Manager”
means a person, corporation, partnership, association or other legal entity
that enters into a contractual arrangement with the provider to manage the
continuing care retirement community. However, “manager” does not include
individuals employed by the provider or corporations affiliated with the
provider or other legal entities within the provider’s supervision or control. 

       (12) “New
continuing care retirement community” means a continuing care retirement
community registered by a provider on or after January 1, 1990. “New continuing
care retirement community” does not mean the remodeling or expansion of an
existing continuing care retirement community’s facility on the same or an
adjacent site. 

       (13) “Omit a
material fact” means the failure to state a material fact required to be stated
in any disclosure statement or registration. 

       (14) “Open bed
long term care facility” means a licensed long term care facility in a
continuing care retirement community that admits persons who have not signed a
residency agreement. 

       (15) “Provider”
means an owner or operator, whether a natural person, partnership, trust,
limited liability company, corporation or unincorporated association, however
organized, of a new or existing continuing care retirement community, whether
operated for profit or not, that provides, plans to provide or agrees to
provide continuing care to one or more unrelated residents under a residency
agreement. 

       (16) “Regular
periodic charges” means basic monthly fees charged to a resident on an ongoing
basis. 

       (17) “Residency
agreement” means a contract between a provider and a resident for the provision
of continuing care for a period greater than one year. 

       (18) “Resident”
means a person who enters into a residency agreement with a provider or who is
designated in a residency agreement to be a person being provided with
continuing care. 

       (19) “Residents’
council” means a body of residents of a continuing care retirement community
who are elected by the residents and recognized by the provider as representing
the interests of the residents. 

       (20) “Solicit”
means all actions of a provider in seeking to have individuals pay an
application fee or enter into a residency agreement by any means including,
without limitation, personal, telephone, mail or any media distributed or
communicated by any means. [1989 c.693 §3; 1997 c.633 §4; 2009 c.201 §1] 

   

       101.030
Registration of continuing care retirement community providers. (1) A new continuing care
retirement community provider shall register with the Department of Human
Services before the provider: 

       (a) Enters into a
residency agreement with a nonresident; 

       (b) Solicits
either a prospective resident or nonresident to pay an application fee or
execute a residency agreement; or 

       (c) Collects an
entrance fee. 

       (2) The provider
shall apply for registration with the department on forms prescribed by the
department. The application shall include a disclosure statement as described
in ORS 101.050. The disclosure statement must include an explanation, in
boldfaced type, whether and in what manner and amount entrance fees are
refunded to prospective residents in the event a prospective resident withdraws
from the residency agreement prior to occupancy. 

       (3) Within 10
business days after receipt of the completed application for registration of a
new continuing care retirement community, the department shall issue a notice
of filing to the applicant. Within 60 days of the notice of filing, the
department shall enter an order registering the provider or rejecting the
registration. If no order of rejection is entered within 60 days from the date
of notice of filing, the provider shall be considered registered unless the
provider and the department agree in writing to an extension of time. If no
order of rejection is entered within the time period as so extended, the
provider shall be considered registered. 

       (4) If the
department determines that the requirements of ORS 101.050, 101.060, 101.070
and 101.090 have been met, it shall enter an order registering the provider. If
the department determines that any of the requirements of ORS 101.050, 101.060,
101.070 or 101.090 have not been met, the department shall notify the applicant
that the application for registration must be corrected within 30 days in such
particulars as are designated by the department. If the requirements are not
met within the time allowed, the department may enter an order rejecting the
registration. The order shall include the findings of fact upon which the order
is based and which shall not become effective until 20 days after the end of
the foregoing 30-day period. During the 20-day period, the applicant may
petition for reconsideration and shall be entitled to a hearing. An order of
rejection shall not take effect, in any event, until such time as the hearing,
once requested, has been given to the applicant and a decision is rendered by
the administrative law judge that sustains the department’s decision to reject
the registration. [1989 c.693 §7; 1991 c.67 §19; 2003 c.75 §82; 2005 c.22 §79;
2009 c.201 §2] 

   

       101.040
Registration fees. 
The initial application for registration shall be accompanied by a fee of $500.
After the initial registration, the subsequent annual fee shall be $250 per
facility. [1989 c.693 §18] 

   

       101.050
Preparation of disclosure statement by provider; notice and review of statement
by prospective residents; contents of statement. (1) After entry of an order
registering the provider and before the provider enters into any residency
agreement with or on behalf of the prospective resident, the provider shall
notify prospective residents of their right to review the initial disclosure
statement and shall make copies of the statement available upon request. The
initial disclosure statement shall be available during regular business hours
in the business office of the continuing care retirement community. The text of
the initial disclosure statement shall contain the following information: 

       (a) The rights
and requirements contained in ORS 101.115. 

       (b) The names of
the individual or individuals who constitute the provider or, if the provider
is a partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other legal entity,
whether for profit or not for profit, the name of the legal entity and each of the
officers, directors, trustees or managing general partners of the legal entity
and a description of each individual’s duties on behalf of the legal entity. 

       (c) The business
address of the provider and a statement of whether the provider is an
individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or other legal
entity. 

       (d) The names and
business addresses of any individual having any more than a 10 percent direct
or indirect ownership or beneficial interest in the provider, the percentage of
the direct or indirect ownership or beneficial interest and a description of each
individual’s interest in or occupation with the provider. 

       (e)(A) A
statement as to whether the provider is or is not affiliated with any other
organization of any kind, the extent of the affiliation, if any, and the extent
to which any of the affiliated organizations are responsible for the financial
and contractual obligations of the provider; and 

       (B) The provision
of the Internal Revenue Code, if any, under which the provider or any
affiliated organization is exempt from the payment of federal income taxes. 

       (f) The location
and general description of the continuing care retirement community, including
the location and number of living units and licensed long term care beds
considered part of the CCRC, and any other care facilities owned or operated by
the provider. The provider must disclose the following about any proposed
continuing care retirement community or other care facilities: 

       (A) The estimated
completion date or dates; 

       (B) A statement
as to whether or not construction has begun; and 

       (C) Any
contingencies subject to which construction may be deferred. 

       (g) The number of
open bed long term care facility beds operated by the CCRC. 

       (h) A description
of services provided or proposed to be furnished by the provider under its
residency agreements including, without limitation: 

       (A) The extent to
which medical care, long term care or health related services are furnished,
and the locations where the services will be furnished. If the services are
furnished at a facility that is not registered as part of the CCRC’s campus,
the provider shall state the location where the services are furnished and any
additional fees associated with the services; and 

       (B) The services
made available by the continuing care retirement community at an extra charge
over and above the entrance fee. 

       (i) A description
of all fees required of each resident, including the entrance fee, regular
periodic charges and the manner in which any additional fees or regular
periodic charges will be determined. The description shall include: 

       (A) The
circumstances under which the resident will be permitted to remain in the
continuing care retirement community in the event the resident is unable to pay
regular periodic or other charges; 

       (B) The terms and
conditions under which the residency agreement may be canceled by the provider
or the resident or in the event of the death of the resident prior to or
following occupancy of the living unit; 

       (C) The
percentage of the entrance fee refund required by ORS 101.080 and the manner in
which this percentage is calculated; 

       (D) The
conditions under which a living unit occupied by a resident may be made
available by the provider to another resident other than on the death of the
resident executing the residency agreement; 

       (E) The manner by
which the provider may adjust regular periodic charges or other recurring fees; 

       (F) A statement
of the fees to be charged if the resident marries or divorces while at the
designated continuing care retirement community, the terms concerning a
resident’s spouse’s entry to or departure from a CCRC and the consequences if a
new spouse does not meet the requirements for entry; and 

       (G) The terms and
conditions for the transfer of a resident out of the CCRC. 

       (j) The provider’s
most recent audited financial statement prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles by a certified public accountant. This audited
financial statement must not have been prepared more than 16 months prior to
the date of the initial application for registration. 

       (k) A copy of the
residency agreement or agreements offered to the prospective resident by the
provider. 

       (L) A statement
on the cover page in a prominent location and typeface that registration of the
continuing care retirement community does not constitute approval,
recommendation or indorsement of the CCRC by the Department of Human Services,
and that such registration does not evidence the accuracy or completeness of
the information set forth in the disclosure statement. 

       (m) Copies of the
primary written brochures and written promotional materials furnished to
prospective residents. 

       (n) A full
description of all contracts that the provider has entered into with affiliated
organizations and an explanation of the financial impact that the contracts may
have on residents. 

       (o) An affidavit
signed by an authorized representative of the CCRC confirming that the
application and disclosure statement are complete and accurate. 

       (2) Any
individual or legal entity named in subsection (1)(b) or (d) of this section
and any proposed or existing manager must disclose: 

       (a) Business
experience in operation or management of the continuing care retirement
community or other licensed long term care facilities; 

       (b) Whether the
person has been convicted of a crime; 

       (c) Whether the
person has been a party to any civil action in which a judgment for damages was
obtained or in which an injunction was issued against the person for fraud,
embezzlement, fraudulent conversion or misappropriation of property; 

       (d) Whether the
person has had any state or federal permits or licenses suspended or revoked,
or if a state or federal authority has disqualified the person from providing
services in the Medicare or Medicaid program in connection with the person’s
business activities; and 

       (e) The identity
of any business or professional service entity in which the person has a 10
percent or greater ownership interest and which the provider intends to employ
to provide goods, services or any other things of value. 

       (3) In the event
subsection (2)(e) of this section applies, the person must disclose the
anticipated costs to the provider or a statement that such costs cannot
presently be estimated. 

       (4) In addition
to complying with all the provisions of this section, the provider must submit
on behalf of a new continuing care retirement community a statement of the
anticipated source and application of funds used or to be used in the purchase
or construction of the CCRC, including: 

       (a) An estimate
of the cost of purchasing or constructing and equipping the CCRC that the
provider expects to incur or become obligated for prior to the commencement of
the operation of the CCRC; 

       (b) A description
of any mortgage loan or other long term financing intended to be used for the
financing of the CCRC; 

       (c) An estimate
of the total entrance fees to be received from the residents at or prior to the
commencement of operation of the continuing care retirement community based on
projected occupancy at the time the CCRC commences operation; and 

       (d) An estimate
of the funds, if any, anticipated to be necessary to pay for start-up losses. [1989
c.693 §8; 1997 c.633 §5; 2009 c.201 §3] 

   

       101.052 Annual
disclosure statement. 
(1) The provider shall file with the Department of Human Services an annual
disclosure statement for the provider’s fiscal year that satisfies the
requirements of this section and ORS 101.050. The statement shall be filed
within four months following the end of the provider’s fiscal year unless the
time is extended by the department. 

       (2) In addition
to the information required for an initial statement under ORS 101.050, the
annual disclosure statement shall include: 

       (a) An audited
financial statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles for the preceding fiscal year; 

       (b) A disclosure
of any change in ownership or manager; 

       (c) The frequency
of residents’ council meetings and the dates of the meetings; and 

       (d) Copies of all
notices of changes in regular periodic charges or notices of proposed changes
in fees or services that were given to residents during the provider’s most
recently completed fiscal year. 

       (3) To amend an
annual disclosure statement, a provider shall file all amended documents and
new materials with the department. [Formerly 101.130] 

   

       101.055 [1997 c.633 §2; 2009 c.201 §4;
renumbered 101.112 in 2009] 

   

       101.060
Provider to maintain financial reserves; amount; escrow account; withdrawal
from reserves. (1)
A provider shall establish and maintain at all times: 

       (a) A debt
service liquid reserve in an amount equal to or exceeding the total of all
principal and interest payments due during the next 12 months on account of a
mortgage loan or other long term financing of the continuing care retirement
community taking into consideration any anticipated refinancing; and 

       (b) An operating
liquid reserve in an amount equal to or exceeding the total of the CCRC’s
projected operating expenses for three months. For the purpose of calculating
the amount required for the operating liquid reserve, projected operating
expenses include any anticipated expenses associated with providing housing or
health related services under all residency agreements. 

       (2) The
Department of Human Services may require a provider not meeting its reserve
requirements to place the reserves in an escrow account. 

       (3) The notes to
the provider’s annual audited financial statements shall state whether or not
the reserve requirements have been met. 

       (4) The
department may allow withdrawal or borrowing from the reserves in an amount not
greater than 20 percent of the provider’s total required reserves. The
withdrawal or borrowing can be approved by the department only if required for
making an emergency repair or replacement of equipment, to cover catastrophic
loss that is not able to be covered by insurance or for debt service in a
potential default situation. No withdrawal or borrowing may be made from a
reserve without the approval of the department. All funds borrowed shall be
repaid to the reserve within 18 months in accordance with a payment plan
approved by the department. [1989 c.693 §12; 1997 c.633 §6; 2003 c.14 §40; 2009
c.201 §5] 

   

       101.065
Provider liquidation; resident claims preferred. If the provider is liquidated, the
claims of residents arising under residency agreements shall be preferred
claims having priority over other unperfected claims against provider assets. [1997
c.633 §3] 

   

       101.070 Escrow
account required for registration of new continuing care retirement community;
entrance fees in escrow; use of escrow funds. (1) As a condition of registration for a new
continuing care retirement community, the Department of Human Services shall
require that the provider establish an escrow account with a bank, trust
company or other escrow agent and that any entrance fees received by the
provider prior to the date the resident is permitted to occupy the living unit
in the CCRC be placed in the escrow account. 

       (2) Upon written
request by the provider, the department shall approve the release of the funds
from escrow if the department is satisfied that: 

       (a) The provider
has received a certificate of occupancy by local authorities and has collected
no less than 10 percent of each individual resident’s entrance fee for no less
than 50 percent of the total number of units; 

       (b) Anticipated
proceeds of any first mortgage loan or other long term financing commitment
plus funds from other sources in the actual possession of the provider are
equal to not less than: 

       (A) Fifty percent
of the aggregate cost of constructing or purchasing and equipping and
furnishing the CCRC; and 

       (B) Fifty percent
of the funds, which the provider estimated in its disclosure pursuant to ORS
101.050, to fund start-up losses of the CCRC; and 

       (c) A commitment
has been received by the provider for any permanent mortgage loan or other long
term financing commitment, which commitment the provider disclosed pursuant to
ORS 101.050, and any conditions of this commitment prior to disbursement of
funds thereunder, other than completion of the construction or closing of the
purchase of the CCRC, have been substantially satisfied. 

       (3) In the event
a prospective resident withdraws from the residency agreement prior to
occupancy, the entrance fee described in ORS 101.080 may not be refunded to the
prospective resident until such time as the prospective resident’s unit has
been resold. 

       (4) If the
entrance fees in an escrow account are not released within 48 months after the
escrow account is opened, entrance fees paid, less the escrow fee, shall be
returned to the residents unless an extension is granted by the department. 

       (5) Nothing in
this section requires the escrow of any nonrefundable application fee charged
to prospective residents. 

       (6) An entrance
fee held in escrow may be returned by the escrow agent, at any time, to the
person or persons who paid the fee to the provider upon receipt by the escrow
agent of notice from the provider that such person is entitled to a refund of
the entrance fee. [1989 c.693 §13; 2009 c.201 §6] 

   

       101.080 When
resident eligible for refund of entrance fee; notice to resident. (1) Any provider that requires any
resident, as a condition of occupancy or use of the facility, to pay an
entrance fee, prior to or during the first six months of occupancy in addition
to monthly payments, shall provide that a percentage of that entrance fee be
refunded to the resident if the residency agreement is terminated, other than
by reason of death of the resident, within the first six months of occupancy. 

       (2) The
percentage of the entrance fee to be refunded and the manner in which this
percentage is calculated shall be written in boldfaced type in the residency
agreement and disclosed in the initial and annual disclosure statements
required by ORS 101.050 and 101.052. [Formerly 91.690; 2009 c.201 §7] 

   

       101.090
Exemption of closed bed facilities from certificate of need review; exception. A closed bed long term care
facility shall be subject to the same requirements as all other long term care
facilities, as defined by ORS 442.015, except that it shall be exempt from the
certificate of need process provided by ORS 442.315. However, any closed bed
long term care facility which initiates under this exemption any new
institutional health services, as defined in ORS 442.015, and which
subsequently accepts patients who are not residents of the continuing care
retirement community, shall become subject to certificate of need review for
such new institutional health services at the time that nonresident patients
begin to be admitted. [1989 c.693 §10; 1991 c.67 §20; 2009 c.201 §8] 

   

       101.100
Transfer of registration. 
No provider registration shall be transferred. A registered provider, who
wishes to sell or transfer ownership of the continuing care retirement
community to another party, shall first obtain approval from the Department of
Human Services. [1989 c.693 §14] 

   

       101.110
Revocation of registration; findings. 
(1) The registration of a provider shall remain in effect until revoked, after
notice and hearing, upon written findings of fact by the Department of Human
Services that the provider has: 

       (a) Violated any
provision of this chapter or any rule or order adopted under this chapter; 

       (b) Failed to
file an annual disclosure statement required by ORS 101.052; 

       (c) Failed to
make available to prospective and current residents the disclosure statements
required by ORS 101.050 and 101.052; 

       (d) Delivered to
prospective residents a disclosure statement as provided by ORS 101.050 and
101.052 that makes an untrue statement of material fact or omits a material
fact and the provider, at the time of the delivery of the disclosure statement,
knew or should have known of the misstatement or omission; 

       (e) Failed to
comply with the terms of a cease and desist order described in ORS 101.120; 

       (f) Failed to
establish and maintain reserves required by ORS 101.060; or 

       (g) Failed to
place reserves in an escrow account when required by the department under ORS
101.060. 

       (2) Findings of
fact in support of revocation, if set forth in statutory language, shall be
accompanied by a concise and explicit statement of the underlying facts
supporting the findings. 

       (3) If the
department finds, after notice and hearing, that the provider has been guilty
of a violation for which revocation could be ordered, it may first issue a
cease and desist order. If the cease and desist order is or cannot be effective
in remedying the violation, the department may, after notice and hearing, order
that the registration be revoked. 

       (4) If the
department revokes a provider’s registration, the provider shall supply the
department with a list of the names and addresses of all residents who have
entered into residency agreements with the provider. [1989 c.693 §15; 2009
c.201 §9] 

   

       101.112
Required meetings with residents; notice of change in fees or services. (1) The governing body or a
designated representative of the provider shall hold meetings with the
residents’ council or meetings that are open to all of the residents in a
continuing care retirement community at least twice a year for the purpose of
free discussion of subjects that may include, but are not limited to, facility
income, expenditures, financial trends, resident concerns and proposed changes
in policy, programs and services. The meetings shall be open to a designated
personal representative of a resident. In addition, the provider shall present
for discussion any issue the residents’ council or any resident of the CCRC
identifies orally or in writing 14 days or more prior to the date of the
meeting. 

       (2) The provider
shall give residents at least 45 days’ notice of proposed changes in fees,
regular periodic charges or services. At least 30 days before an increase in
regular periodic charges takes effect, the provider shall hold a meeting with
the residents’ council or a meeting that is open to all of the residents of a
CCRC to present the reasons for the proposed increase and any data supporting
the need for the increase. A meeting described in subsection (1) of this
section may be used for this purpose. At least 14 days prior to the meeting,
the provider shall post in a conspicuous location and make available to each
resident an agenda for the meeting. At the meeting, the provider shall make
available an accounting of: 

       (a) Actual and
projected income and expenses for the CCRC’s current fiscal year; 

       (b) Projected
income and expenses for the following fiscal year; and 

       (c) The current
charges for each living unit in the CCRC and the proposed increase to each
charge. 

       (3) A provider
shall review the CCRC budget with the residents’ council or a committee
appointed by the council during the budget planning process. 

       (4) A provider
shall make available to the residents’ council or a committee appointed by the
council, at least twice each year, a financial statement for the CCRC that
compares actual costs to budgeted costs, broken down by expense category. 

       (5) A provider
shall maintain and make available to any resident, upon request, minutes of the
meetings of the provider’s governing body. The provider may remove from the
minutes information regarding any matters discussed in executive session or
that relate to litigation, personnel, competitive advantage or an individual
resident’s personal affairs, but may not remove information regarding the
annual budget, increases in regular periodic charges, provider indebtedness or
expansion in new or existing facilities. A provider shall retain the minutes
for no less than three years from the date the minutes were created. 

       (6) The governing
body of a provider shall allow at least one resident from each CCRC operated in
this state by the provider to participate as a nonvoting resident
representative on the governing body or along with the owners or managers. The
resident representative may be excluded from any executive session and from
discussion of confidential matters or matters related to litigation, personnel,
competitive advantage or an individual resident’s personal affairs. The
resident representative may not be excluded from discussion of matters relating
to the annual budget, increases in regular periodic charges, provider
indebtedness or expansion in new or existing facilities. 

       (7) The resident
representative described in subsection (6) of this section and the
representative’s alternate must be elected by a majority vote of the residents’
council of each CCRC or by a majority vote of all residents of a CCRC. The
representative is responsible for submitting the representative’s name,
address, electronic mail address and telephone number to the provider. The
provider may establish the term for representatives and the procedures for
election and replacement of a representative and an alternate. 

       (8) A provider
shall send to each resident representative and alternate, at the same time and
in the same manner as other members of the governing body, owners or managers
of the provider, the notice of meeting and any written materials relevant to
the discussions in which the resident representative may participate under
subsection (6) of this section. 

       (9) The provider
shall pay all reasonable travel expenses for a resident representative or
alternate to attend meetings of the governing body and meetings of governing
body committees. 

       (10) Nothing in
this chapter prohibits a provider from allowing greater resident participation
than the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter including, but not
limited to, the requirement: 

       (a) Under
subsection (1) of this section to hold meetings with the residents’ council or
meetings that are open to all of the residents twice each year. 

       (b) Under
subsection (6) of this section to allow one elected resident representative for
each CCRC to participate in the provider’s governing body or along with owners
or managers. [Formerly 101.055] 

   

       101.115
Resident rights. 
(1) A provider must assist a resident, upon request, in the exercise of the
resident’s rights as a citizen of the United States and as a resident of this
state. A resident has the right to exercise all rights that do not infringe
upon the rights or safety of other residents. 

       (2) A resident
has the right to review a provider’s disclosure statements. 

       (3) A provider
may not discriminate or impose any requirement or restriction based on sex,
marital status, race, color, sexual orientation, gender identity or national
origin of a resident, a prospective resident or a resident’s visitor. 

       (4) A provider
shall make reasonable accommodations to ensure that services are accessible to
residents who have disabilities. 

       (5) A provider
shall treat each resident with respect and dignity at all times, and ensure
privacy for each resident during rehabilitation or treatment and when receiving
personal care services. 

       (6) A resident
has the right to associate and communicate privately with persons of the
resident’s choice and to send and receive mail that is not opened by the
provider. 

       (7) A resident
has the right to be free from abuse as defined in ORS 124.005. 

       (8) The residents’
council has the right to meet with the provider no less than twice each year
and must be allowed free discussion at the meetings of subjects that may
include, but need not be limited to, facility income, expenditures, financial
trends, resident concerns, proposed changes in policy, programs and services,
and any other issue identified by the council or a resident under ORS 101.112
(1). 

       (9) A resident
has the right to participate in social, religious and community activities at
the discretion of the resident. 

       (10) A resident
has the right to be fully informed, prior to or at the time of admission and
during the resident’s period of residency, of services available in the
continuing care retirement community, whether the provider participates in the
Medicare or Medicaid programs and the consequences of the participation or lack
of participation by the provider in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. 

       (11) A resident
has the right to refuse medication, treatment, care or participation in
clinical trials or other research. 

       (12) A resident
has the right to obtain treatment, care and services, including but not limited
to home health and hospice care, from persons providing health care who have
not entered into a contract with or are not affiliated with the provider,
subject to policies of the CCRC regarding the provision of services by persons
that are not under contract. 

       (13) A resident
has the right to submit grievances and to suggest changes in policies and
services either orally or in writing to staff or other individuals without fear
of restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination or reprisal by the
provider. A provider must adopt written policies and procedures for the timely
resolution of a resident’s grievance. 

       (14) A resident
has the right to be free from harassment by other residents and to peaceful
enjoyment of the CCRC without interference from other residents. 

       (15) A provider
shall keep clinical and personal records of residents confidential. A resident
or an authorized representative of the resident has the right to a prompt
inspection of the records pertaining to the resident’s care. The provider shall
provide photocopies or electronic copies of a resident’s records to the
resident or the authorized representative at a reasonable charge. 

       (16) A resident
has the right to receive notice of proposed changes in fees or services in
accordance with ORS 101.112. The provider must allow residents a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the proposed changes before the changes become
effective. 

       (17) A provider
shall have a procedure in place for a resident to request that a staff person
of a particular sex be assigned to assist the resident with activities of daily
living. The provider shall accommodate the request unless the provider is
unable to do so. If the provider is unable to accommodate the request, the
provider shall notify the resident, in writing, of the reasons why the provider
is unable to accommodate the request and shall maintain documentation showing
why the provider cannot accommodate the request. [2009 c.201 §12; 2015 c.839 §1;
2021 c.367 §6] 

   

       101.120 Power
of department to prevent violations; cease and desist order; injunction. (1) If the Department of Human
Services determines, after notice and hearing, that any person has violated or
is about to violate any provision of this chapter or any rule or order issued
under this chapter, the department may issue an order requiring the person to
cease and desist from the unlawful practice or to take such affirmative action
as in the judgment of the department carries out the purposes of this chapter. 

       (2) If the
department makes a finding of fact in writing that the public interest will be
irreparably harmed by delay in issuing a cease and desist order, it may issue a
temporary cease and desist order that shall include in its terms a provision
that, upon request, a hearing shall be held within 10 days of such a request to
determine whether or not the permanent cease and desist order shall be entered
on the person. The temporary cease and desist order shall be served on the
person by certified mail. 

       (3) If it appears
that a person has engaged, or is about to engage, in an act or practice
constituting a violation of any provision of this chapter or of a rule or order
under this chapter, the department, with or without prior administrative
proceedings, may bring an action in the circuit court to enjoin the acts or
practices or to enforce compliance with this chapter or any rule or order under
this chapter. Upon proper showing, injunctive relief or temporary restraining
orders shall be granted. The department shall not be required to post a bond in
any court proceeding. [1989 c.693 §16] 

   

       101.130 [1989 c.693 §9; 2009 c.201 §10;
renumbered 101.052 in 2009] 

   

       101.140
Advisory council; membership; compensation; duties. (1) The Continuing Care Retirement
Community Advisory Council is created and shall consist of nine members
appointed by the Director of Human Services or a designee and shall represent
the geographic location of providers in this state. A member must be a resident
of this state. Three members must represent providers that are registered
pursuant to ORS 101.030 and must have been actively engaged in the offering of
residency agreements in this state for five years before appointment. The
remaining members shall include: 

       (a) A
representative of the business community with expertise in the area of
management; 

       (b) A certified
public accountant; 

       (c) An attorney;
and 

       (d) Three Oregon
residents of continuing care retirement communities or other consumer
representatives. 

       (2) The term of
office for a member shall be three years or until a successor has been
appointed and qualified. 

       (3) The members
of the advisory council shall serve without pay. They shall be reimbursed by
the Department of Human Services for their actual and necessary traveling
expenses incurred while on official business. 

       (4) The council
shall: 

       (a) Elect a
chairperson from among their number and elect or appoint a secretary, both of
whom shall hold office for one year and thereafter until a successor is
qualified and elected; 

       (b) Hold an
annual meeting and hold other meetings at times and places the department or
the chairperson of the council may direct; 

       (c) Keep a record
of its proceedings. The record is prima facie evidence of all matters reported
and shall be open to inspection at all times; 

       (d) Act in an
advisory capacity to the department; and 

       (e) Make
recommendations to the department on all proposed rules pertaining to this
chapter. [1989 c.693 §5; 1993 c.18 §21; 1997 c.633 §7; 2001 c.900 §13] 

   

       101.150 Duties
of Department of Human Services; complaint procedure; rules. (1) The Department of Human
Services shall implement the provisions of this chapter. 

       (2) The
department shall adopt such rules as are reasonably necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. The department shall submit any proposed rules to
the advisory council prior to proceeding with the notice procedures provided
for in ORS 183.335. The department shall consider the comments of the advisory
council which pertain to a proposed rule before the department adopts the rule. 

       (3) The
department shall adopt a procedure for a resident to file a complaint with the
department concerning a continuing care retirement community’s failure to
comply with a requirement of this chapter. The department shall: 

       (a) Provide a
response to the complainant no later than 14 days after the date the complaint
is filed; 

       (b) Complete an
investigation of the complaint no later than 90 days after the date the
complaint is filed; and 

       (c) Provide a
written report of the results of the investigation to the provider and to the
complainant. [1989 c.693 §§4,17; 2015 c.839 §2] 

   

       101.160 Short
title. This
chapter may be cited as the Continuing Care Retirement Community Provider
Registration Act. [1989 c.693 §1] 

 CHAPTERS
102 TO 104 [Reserved for expansion] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
