 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
538 — Withdrawal of Certain Waters From Appropriation; Special Municipal and
County Water Right 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

 s 

   

 SPECIAL PROVISIONS 

   

 WATER LAWS 

   

 DIVERSION BY MORROW COUNTY 

   

 538.010     Waters diverted from
Ditch Creek; rights of use and appropriation; certificate; time limitation 

   

 538.020     Acquisition of property
necessary for storage and diversion 

   

 WITHDRAWALS FROM APPROPRIATION 

   

 538.110     Tumalo Creek, Deschutes
County; diversion prohibited; excepted uses; existing rights 

   

 538.120     Silver Creek, Marion
County, and Brushes Creek, Curry County, and tributaries; diversion prohibited 

   

 538.125     Certain appropriations
vested notwithstanding ORS 538.120 

   

 538.130     Condemnation of lands
for park; vested and riparian rights not affected 

   

 538.140     Diamond Lake and
tributaries; diversion, interruption or appropriation of waters prohibited;
excepted uses 

   

 538.150     Hackett Creek,
Clackamas County, and tributaries; appropriation, condemnation and diversion
prohibited; protection of fish 

   

 538.160     Hackett Creek; vested
rights not affected; condemnation of land for park not prevented 

   

 538.170     Johnson Creek in
Multnomah and Clackamas Counties; limitations on appropriation or diversion 

   

 538.180     Johnson Creek; existing
rights; condemnation of land for park 

   

 538.190     Lake of the Woods and
tributaries, Klamath County; diversion, interruption or appropriation of waters
prohibited; excepted uses 

   

 538.200     Streams forming
waterfalls near Columbia River Highway; withdrawal from appropriation or
condemnation; diversion or interruption prohibited 

   

 538.210     Condemnation of lands
for park not prevented; vested and riparian rights not affected; condemnation
of lands or appropriation of waters for fish culture not prevented 

   

 538.220     Waters of Mill and Barr
Creeks, Jackson County, withdrawn; exceptions 

   

 538.230     Vested water rights not
affected; condemnation for park not prevented 

   

 538.251     Tributaries of Columbia
River; limitations on appropriation or diversion 

   

 538.260     Existing rights not
affected; appropriation and use for certain purposes permitted 

   

 538.270     Rogue River; withdrawal
from appropriation; excepted water uses; tributaries 

   

 538.280     McNulty Creek;
withdrawal from appropriation; exceptions 

   

 538.290     McNulty Creek; existing
rights not affected 

   

 538.300     Milton Creek and
tributaries; withdrawal from appropriation; exception; existing rights 

   

 MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY 

   

 538.410     Confirmation of water
rights acquired prior to February 24, 1909, for municipal supply; rejection of
applications injurious to municipal supply; statements of supply 

   

 538.420     Portland’s right to
waters of Bull Run and Little Sandy Rivers; vested rights not impaired;
applicability of law 

   

 538.430     Medford and Eagle Point
Irrigation District; right to waters of Big Butte Creek; generation, sale and
distribution of electric energy by irrigation district 

   

 538.440     Bend; right to waters
of Tumalo Creek 

   

 538.450     Pendleton; right to
waters of Umatilla River; notice of intent; agreement with tribes 

   

 DIVERSION BY MORROW COUNTY 

   

       538.010 Waters
diverted from Ditch Creek; rights of use and appropriation; certificate; time
limitation. (1)
The waters of Ditch Creek which were diverted to and became a part of the
waters of Willow Creek, under the provisions of chapter 324, Oregon Laws 1939,
are subject to the same rights of use and appropriation as the original waters
of Willow Creek. 

       (2) The right of
the county court of Morrow County to divert and store the waters of Ditch
Creek, acquired under the certificate issued by the Water Resources Director
licensing such diversion and storage, shall date from the time the application
to divert and store such waters was filed. The waters shall be used for the
purposes, in the manner and under the conditions set forth in the certificate,
for such time as the use is for the public interest. If the waters are not used
under the license for a five-year period, the license shall expire. 

   

       538.020
Acquisition of property necessary for storage and diversion. The county court of Morrow County
may, for the purposes set forth in chapter 324, Oregon Laws 1939, acquire, in
the name of the county and for the use of the public, by purchase, eminent
domain proceedings, lease, grant, gift, bequest, devise or any other legal
means, real and personal property, rights of way, easements and other property
rights or privileges necessary to effect the storage and diversion of the
waters referred to in that Act, and maintain and care for such property and
rights in the manner provided by statute for the care and maintenance of other
county property. 

   

 WITHDRAWALS FROM
APPROPRIATION 

   

       538.110 Tumalo
Creek, Deschutes County; diversion prohibited; excepted uses; existing rights. For the purpose of maintaining and
perpetuating the recreational and scenic resources of Oregon, the waters of
that portion of Tumalo Creek, in Deschutes County, situated above a point
one-half mile above the intake of the Columbia Southern Canal in section 2,
township 18 south, range 10 east, Willamette Meridian, in Deschutes County,
shall not be diverted for any purposes whatsoever, except for municipal,
domestic and stock uses. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair
any vested rights existing as of June 4, 1929, in the creek or its tributaries.
This section shall not apply to the waters of the south fork of Tumalo Creek. [Amended
by 1959 c.223 §1] 

   

       538.120 Silver
Creek, Marion County, and Brushes Creek, Curry County, and tributaries;
diversion prohibited. 
The waters of the north and south forks of Silver Creek and of all tributaries
thereof above the confluence of the north and south forks of Silver Creek, all
in Marion County, also Brushes Creek and all its tributaries in township 33
south, range 14 west, Willamette Meridian, in Curry County, are withdrawn from
appropriation or condemnation, and shall not be diverted or interrupted for any
purpose whatsoever, except for use in state parks and except as set forth in
ORS 538.130 and section 2, chapter 480, Oregon Laws 1965. [Amended by 1965
c.480 §1] 

   

       538.125
Certain appropriations vested notwithstanding ORS 538.120. All appropriations made under the
provisions of section 2, chapter 480, Oregon Laws 1965, shall become vested
when completed as provided by ORS 537.250. Any person having obtained a vested
water right prior to April 19, 1967, under the provisions of section 2, chapter
480, Oregon Laws 1965, may apply to the Water Resources Commission for an
increase of vested water rights, as provided by ORS chapter 537. [1967 c.169 §1;
1985 c.673 §78] 

   

       538.130
Condemnation of lands for park; vested and riparian rights not affected. ORS 538.120 shall not prevent the
condemnation for public park purposes of any lands through which any of the
streams flow, nor affect vested rights or the rights of riparian proprietors of
such lands in or to the water of the creeks or streams. 

   

       538.140
Diamond Lake and tributaries; diversion, interruption or appropriation of
waters prohibited; excepted uses. 
In order to maintain, increase and perpetuate game fish and game fish
propagation within Oregon, the waters or use of the waters of Diamond Lake and
its tributaries situated in Douglas County shall not be diverted, interrupted
or appropriated for any purpose whatsoever, except for domestic use on
contiguous and surrounding land or other water uses necessary to maintain,
increase and perpetuate game fish and game fish propagation in Diamond Lake and
its tributaries. [Amended by 1999 c.252 §1] 

   

       538.150
Hackett Creek, Clackamas County, and tributaries; appropriation, condemnation
and diversion prohibited; protection of fish. The waters of Hackett Creek, a tributary of the Sandy
River located in Clackamas County, and of the tributaries of Hackett Creek, are
withdrawn from appropriation or condemnation and shall not be diverted or
interrupted for any purpose whatsoever, except for protecting fish life therein
by the State Fish and Wildlife Commission. 

   

       538.160
Hackett Creek; vested rights not affected; condemnation of land for park not
prevented. ORS
538.150 shall not affect vested water rights or prevent condemnation for public
park purposes of lands through which Hackett Creek or its tributaries flow. 

   

       538.170
Johnson Creek in Multnomah and Clackamas Counties; limitations on appropriation
or diversion. (1)
Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, the waters of Johnson
Creek, a tributary of the Willamette River and located in Multnomah and
Clackamas Counties and all tributaries thereof, except flows of Crystal Springs
Creek and its tributaries in excess of 10 cubic feet per second measured at the
mouth of Crystal Springs Creek: 

       (a) Are withdrawn
from appropriation or condemnation; and 

       (b) Shall not be
diverted or interrupted for any purpose whatsoever, except for the purpose of
protecting fish life therein by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife or
for the purpose of developing hydroelectric power not to exceed 25 theoretical
horsepower if such hydroelectric development does not diminish perennial
streamflow required for the maintenance of fish life. 

       (2) The
tributaries withdrawn from appropriation and condemnation, but not the main
channel, of Johnson Creek are open to appropriation and storage from December 1
to June 1 of each year. Water stored during this period may be used at any
time. [Amended by 1953 c.221 §2; 1965 c.249 §1; 1973 c.50 §1; 1979 c.360 §1] 

   

       538.180
Johnson Creek; existing rights; condemnation of land for park. ORS 538.170 shall not affect
rights to the use of Johnson Creek recognized or acquired pursuant to section
2, chapter 273, Oregon Laws 1935; nor shall anything contained in ORS 538.170
prevent condemnation for public park purposes of lands through which Johnson
Creek flows. 

   

       538.190 Lake
of the Woods and tributaries, Klamath County; diversion, interruption or
appropriation of waters prohibited; excepted uses. In order to maintain, increase and
perpetuate game fish and game fish propagation within Oregon, the waters or use
of the waters of Lake of the Woods and its tributaries, situated in Klamath
County, not already appropriated, shall not be diverted, interrupted or
appropriated for any purpose whatsoever, except for domestic use on contiguous
and surrounding land. 

   

       538.200
Streams forming waterfalls near Columbia River Highway; withdrawal from
appropriation or condemnation; diversion or interruption prohibited. The following streams and waters
thereof forming waterfalls or cascades in view of, or near, the Columbia River
Highway, from Sandy River to Hood River, the first 17 of which are in Multnomah
County and the remainder of which are in Hood River County, are withdrawn from
appropriation or condemnation, and shall not be diverted or interrupted for any
purpose whatsoever, except as mentioned in ORS 538.210: 

       (1) Latourell
Creek–forming Latourell Falls. 

       (2) An unnamed
stream whose waterfall is approximately at the southwest quarter of the
southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 1 north,
range 5 east, at the northern edge of Tax Lot 27/28. The fall is on the south
side of the old Columbia River Highway 0.7 mile west of the highway bridge at
Young Creek. 

       (3) An unnamed
stream whose waterfall is approximately at the southeast quarter of the
southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 1 north,
range 5 east, at the northern intersection of Tax Lot 27/26. The falls are on
the south side of the old Columbia River Highway 0.6 mile west of the highway
bridge at Young Creek. 

       (4) An unnamed
stream whose waterfall is approximately at the northeast quarter of the
northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 28, township 1 north,
range 5 east, Tax Lot 3. The falls are on the south side of the old Columbia
River Highway 0.1 mile west of the highway bridge at Young Creek. 

       (5) Young Creek–forming
Shepperd Dell Falls. 

       (6) Bridal Veil
Creek–forming Bridal Veil Falls. 

       (7) Coopey Falls
Creek. 

       (8) Mist Falls
Creek. 

       (9) Wahkeena
Creek–forming Wahkeena Falls, formerly known as Gordon Falls. 

       (10) Multnomah
Creek–forming Multnomah Falls. 

       (11) Oneonta
Creek–forming Oneonta Falls and Gorge. 

       (12) Horse Tail
Creek–forming Horse Tail Falls. 

       (13) Tumalt
Creek. 

       (14) McCord
Creek, formerly known as Kelly Creek–forming Elowah Falls. 

       (15) Moffatt
Creek–forming Wahe Falls. 

       (16) Tanner Creek–forming
Wahclella Falls. 

       (17) Eagle Creek–forming
Metlako Falls. 

       (18) Ruckle
Creek, formerly known as Deadman’s Creek. 

       (19) Herman
Creek. 

       (20) Grays Creek. 

       (21) Gorton Creek–forming
Gorton Creek Falls. 

       (22) Harphan
Creek. 

       (23) Summit Creek–forming
Camp Benson Falls. 

       (24) Lindsey
Creek–forming Lindsey Falls. 

       (25) Spring
Creek, also known as Wonder Creek–forming Lancaster Falls. 

       (26) Warren
Creek. 

       (27) Cabin Creek. 

       (28) Starvation
Creek–forming Starvation Falls. 

       (29) Viento
Creek. 

       (30) Perham
Creek. 

       (31) Phelps
Creek, except those creeks which are tributary to Phelps Creek and which arise
in the north one-half of section 5, township 2 north, range 10 east of the
Willamette Meridian, subject to prior rights. [Amended by 1953 c.48 §2; 1985
c.261 §1] 

   

       538.210
Condemnation of lands for park not prevented; vested and riparian rights not
affected; condemnation of lands or appropriation of waters for fish culture not
prevented. ORS
538.200 shall not prevent the condemnation for public park purposes of any
lands through which any of the streams flow; nor affect vested rights or the
rights of riparian proprietors of such lands in or to the waters of the creeks
or streams; nor prevent the condemnation of any lands through which any of the
streams flow, for the purpose of establishing, maintaining and operating
thereon salmon fish culture work, nor prevent the State Fish and Wildlife
Commission from appropriating any waters for fish culture work; nor prevent the
appropriation, for irrigation purposes, of waters between the Union Pacific
Railroad tracks and the Columbia River that flow from any of the streams other
than Herman Creek; provided, that no waters shall be taken from above the falls
in the streams mentioned in ORS 538.200. [Amended by 1978 s.s. c.2 §1] 

   

       538.220 Waters
of Mill and Barr Creeks, Jackson County, withdrawn; exceptions. (1) The waters described as
follows are withdrawn from appropriation or condemnation, and shall not be
diverted or interrupted for any purpose whatsoever, except for domestic
purposes and protecting fish life therein by the State Fish and Wildlife Commission: 

       (a) The waters of
Mill Creek, in Jackson County, beginning in section 22, township 31 south,
range 4 east, Willamette Meridian, running thence southwesterly through
township 31 south, range 3 east, Willamette Meridian, and township 32 south,
range 3 east, Willamette Meridian, to a junction with the Rogue River in
section 32, township 32 south, range 3 east, Willamette Meridian, together with
the tributaries of said Mill Creek; and 

       (b) Barr Creek,
in Jackson County, beginning in section 1, township 32 south, range 3 east,
Willamette Meridian, and in section 6 and section 7, township 32 south, range 4
east, Willamette Meridian, running thence in a general southwesterly direction
through township 32 south, range 3 east, Willamette Meridian, to a junction
with the Rogue River in section 32, township 3 east, Willamette Meridian,
together with the tributaries of said Barr Creek. 

       (2) Subsection
(1) of this section shall not prevent the appropriation of the waters of Mill
Creek, in Jackson County, for the development of hydroelectric power not to
exceed one megawatt if: 

       (a) The
hydroelectric project is located on Mill Creek at a point at least two miles
above the confluence of Mill Creek and the Rogue River; 

       (b) All water
appropriated from the stream is returned to the stream at a point at least
one-half mile above the confluence of Mill Creek and the Rogue River; and 

       (c) The facility
will be constructed and operated in compliance with recommendations by the
State Department of Fish and Wildlife concerning fish conservation, including
streamflow requirements based upon biological criteria. [Amended by 1959 c.104 §1;
1983 c.650 §1] 

   

       538.230 Vested
water rights not affected; condemnation for park not prevented. ORS 538.220 shall not affect
vested water rights or prevent condemnation for public park purposes of lands
through which Mill and Barr Creeks or their tributaries flow. 

   

       538.240 [Repealed by 1963 c.95 §1] 

   

       538.250 [Repealed by 1953 c.222 §3] 

   

       538.251
Tributaries of Columbia River; limitations on appropriation or diversion. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, the following waters, all being tributaries of the Columbia
River, are withdrawn from appropriation and shall not be diverted or
interrupted for any purpose, except for protecting fish life therein by the State
Fish and Wildlife Commission: 

       (1) Clatskanie
River and its tributaries, except Fall Creek in Columbia County, for purposes
of hydroelectric generation if the facility is constructed and operated in
compliance with recommendations by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife
concerning fish conservation, including streamflow requirements based upon
biological criteria. 

       (2) Klaskanine
River and its tributaries in Clatsop County except an unnamed tributary of the
South Fork Klaskanine River in Clatsop County, on which there is located an
existing fish culture project, for purposes of hydroelectric generation if the
facility is less than 100 horsepower and the electricity generated is for use
in conjunction with the existing fish culture project. 

       (3) Lewis and
Clark River in Clatsop County. 

       (4) Sandy River
and its tributaries in Multnomah and Clackamas Counties, except: 

       (a) Beaver Creek
and its tributaries. 

       (b) Buck Creek
and its tributaries. 

       (c) The tributary
of the Sandy River in Multnomah County which empties into the Sandy River near
the north quarter corner, section 10, township 1 south, range 4 east,
Willamette Meridian, and its tributaries, and is locally known as Big Creek. 

       (d) All
tributaries, but not the main channel, of the Sandy River are open for
appropriation and storage from December 1 to June 1 of each year. Water stored
during this period may be used at any time. 

       (e) Trout Creek
in Multnomah County and its tributaries. 

       (5) Scappoose
Creek in Columbia County. 

       (6) Tillasqua
Creek in Clatsop County. [1953 c.222 §2; 1961 c.366 §1; 1971 c.139 §1; 1983
c.807 §4; 1987 c.392 §1] 

   

       538.260
Existing rights not affected; appropriation and use for certain purposes
permitted. ORS
538.251 shall not affect any existing rights to appropriate or use water, or
any renewals or extensions thereof, or prevent appropriation and use of such
water for domestic, stock, municipal, fish culture, aesthetic, recreational, or
public park purposes. [Amended by 1971 c.139 §2] 

   

       538.270 Rogue
River; withdrawal from appropriation; excepted water uses; tributaries. Subject to water rights existing
on May 26, 1967, the waters flowing in the main channel of the Rogue River from
its intersection with the south line of section 27, township 33 south, range 1
east of the Willamette Meridian in Jackson County, to its confluence with the
Pacific Ocean, are withdrawn from appropriation; except that this section shall
not prevent the appropriation and use of such waters for domestic, stock,
irrigation, municipal, fish, wildlife, recreation and road maintenance
purposes, nor prevent the appropriation, diversion and use of the waters of any
stream tributary to the river. [Amended by 1959 c.205 §1; 1967 c.310 §1; 1989
c.291 §1] 

   

       538.280
McNulty Creek; withdrawal from appropriation; exceptions. The waters of McNulty Creek, a
tributary of Scappoose Bay, in Columbia County, are withdrawn from
appropriation except for storage during the period beginning November 1 and
ending on March 31 of each year in reservoirs not constructed in the channel of
McNulty Creek below a line one mile west of the range line between ranges 1 and
2 west, Willamette Meridian. [Amended by 1955 c.82 §1] 

   

       538.290
McNulty Creek; existing rights not affected. ORS 538.280 shall not affect any existing rights to
the waters of McNulty Creek that have been acquired or are in the process of
being acquired under the water laws of this state. [Amended by 1955 c.82 §2] 

   

       538.300 Milton
Creek and tributaries; withdrawal from appropriation; exception; existing
rights. The
unappropriated waters of Milton Creek and its tributaries, in Columbia County,
are withdrawn from appropriation except for domestic use through the year and
storage during the period beginning November 1 and ending April 30 of each
year. Nothing contained in this section shall impair the existing rights of any
person to the use of such waters. 

   

 MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY 

   

       538.410
Confirmation of water rights acquired prior to February 24, 1909, for municipal
supply; rejection of applications injurious to municipal supply; statements of
supply. All rights
to the waters of the lakes, rivers and streams of this state acquired before
February 24, 1909, for the purposes of municipal water supply are confirmed,
and no rights acquired under the Water Rights Act (as defined in ORS 537.010)
shall impair the rights of any municipal corporation to waters taken before
February 24, 1909. The Water Resources Commission shall reject, or grant
subject to municipal use, all applications where, in the commission’s judgment,
the appropriation of the waters applied for impairs a municipal water supply.
Municipal corporations of the state, on request of the Water Resources
Commission, shall furnish a statement of the amount and source of the municipal
water supply, with probable increase or extension of the same. [Amended by 1985
c.673 §79] 

   

       538.420
Portland’s right to waters of Bull Run and Little Sandy Rivers; vested rights
not impaired; applicability of law. 
(1) Exclusive right to the use of waters of Bull Run and Little Sandy Rivers is
granted to the City of Portland. However, the Water Rights Act (as defined in
ORS 537.010) shall not impair the rights of any person who, on February 24,
1909, had any vested right to or valid appropriation or bona fide notice of
appropriation of the waters of either Bull Run River or Little Sandy River,
under laws theretofore in effect or under any valid contract or deed of
conveyance theretofore made with or by the City of Portland. 

       (2) ORS 541.010
to 541.080 shall not apply to Bull Run Creek or River. 

   

       538.430
Medford and Eagle Point Irrigation District; right to waters of Big Butte
Creek; generation, sale and distribution of electric energy by irrigation
district. (1)
Subject to water rights existing on May 29, 1925, the City of Medford, in
Jackson County, is granted the exclusive right to use for municipal purposes
all the waters of Big Butte Creek, a tributary of Rogue River situated in
Jackson County, and of the springs at the head which form the creek, and of its
tributaries. The City of Medford, any of its officers, and others on its behalf
may appropriate all the waters for these purposes and an application therefor
may be made for the benefit of the city, either by it in its own name, or by
any of its officers or by any other person on its behalf. No person shall
appropriate or be granted a permit to use any of the waters except as provided
in this section, and for the use and benefit of the city. But the City of
Medford may, under this grant, divert such waters from their watershed and
convey them to the city and elsewhere for use by it for municipal purposes,
either within or without the city limits. All of such waters are withdrawn from
future appropriation, except for such use and benefit of the City of Medford;
provided however, that the Eagle Point Irrigation District may establish and
use an additional point of diversion below the diversion point in use on April
1, 1953, under its permit number 6396 which authorizes the appropriation of not
to exceed 100 cubic feet per second. 

       (2) Subject to
rights existing on July 21, 1953, to the use of the waters of Big Butte Creek,
and of the springs at the head which form the creek, and of its tributaries,
including the rights granted in subsection (1) of this section to the City of
Medford to the use of such waters and the right of future appropriation of such
waters, the Eagle Point Irrigation District is granted the right to appropriate
and use up to and including 100 cubic feet per second of the waters of Big
Butte Creek, using the diversion site of the Eagle Point Irrigation District
existing on April 1, 1953, for the purpose of generating electric energy;
provided, however, that not less than 10 cubic feet per second of said waters
shall be permitted to pass said diversion point and remain in the channel of
said stream at all times other than times when said waters are diverted for
irrigation purposes. The Eagle Point Irrigation District may: 

       (a) Enter into
such contracts and perform such other acts as it deems necessary or desirable
for the generation of electric energy and the construction and maintenance of
facilities for the generation of electric energy. 

       (b) Enter into
such arrangements as it deems proper for the use, sale or distribution of the
electric energy which is generated. 

       (3) In performing
any of the acts under subsection (2) of this section, the Eagle Point
Irrigation District shall not be deemed a public utility as defined in ORS
757.005. 

       (4) Subsections
(1) and (2) of this section shall not prevent the appropriation of the waters
of Clark Creek, in Jackson County, for the development of hydroelectric power
not to exceed two megawatts if the facility will be constructed and operated in
compliance with recommendations by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife
concerning fish conservation, including streamflow requirements based upon
biological criteria. [Amended by 1953 c.572 §2; 1963 c.231 §1; 1983 c.650 §2] 

   

       538.440 Bend;
right to waters of Tumalo Creek. 
Whenever the City of Bend, Deschutes County, shall have acquired the right to
appropriate or use from the Deschutes River at least 11 cubic feet per second
of water for delivery into the feed canal belonging to Deschutes County
Municipal Improvement District, which feed canal is now supplied from the
Deschutes River at a diversion located in or near Bend, then the city may take
from the direct flow of Tumalo Creek, in Deschutes County, not to exceed 11
cubic feet per second of water for providing a supply of water for domestic and
municipal purposes; provided, however, that should the waters of the Deschutes
River so acquired for the purpose of the exchange be appurtenant to lands
calling for a different point of diversion, the place of use and point of diversion
of the water may be changed to meet the requirements of this section. 

   

       538.450
Pendleton; right to waters of Umatilla River; notice of intent; agreement with
tribes. (1)
Subject to water rights existing on March 8, 1941, there is granted to the City
of Pendleton, Umatilla County, and its water commission, the exclusive right to
use for public or municipal purposes or use, or for the general use and benefit
of people within or without the city, all waters of the north fork of the
Umatilla River, the springs at the head which form the stream, and its
tributaries to the confluence of the north fork with the main stream of the
Umatilla River in the northwest quarter of section 22, township 3 north of
range 37 east of the Willamette Meridian, which north fork is a tributary of
the Umatilla River situated in Umatilla County. 

       (2) The City of
Pendleton, its water commission, any of the city’s agents, agencies and
officers, and others on its behalf, may appropriate all such waters for these
purposes and uses for the benefit and use of the city, as above set forth,
either by the city in its own name, or by any of its agents, agencies or officers
or by any other persons on its behalf. 

       (3) No person
shall appropriate or be granted a permit to the use of any of such waters,
except as provided in this section. But the City of Pendleton may, under this
grant, divert such waters from their watershed and convey them to the city and
elsewhere for use by it for public or municipal purposes or use or for the
general use and benefit of people within or without the city. All of such
waters are withdrawn from future appropriation, except for use and benefit of
the city as set forth in this section. 

       (4) The point of
diversion of a water right granted under this section may be exercised at the
main stem of the Umatilla River situated in Umatilla County to a point not
below the westerly city limit of the City of Pendleton. 

       (5) Prior to
exercising the right granted under this section, the City of Pendleton shall
submit to the Water Resources Department a notice of intent to exercise the
right. The notice of intent shall be made on a form prescribed by the
department and shall set forth: 

       (a) The name and
mailing address of the applicant; 

       (b) The source of
the water supply including the name and mailing address of any owner of the
land upon which the source of the water supply is located; 

       (c) The nature
and the amount of the proposed use; 

       (d) The time
within which construction of the right is proposed to begin; 

       (e) The time
required to complete construction of the right; 

       (f) The time
required for the complete application of the water to the proposed beneficial
use; 

       (g) The point of
diversion of the exercise of the right; and 

       (h) Any other
information required by the department that is necessary to understand the
nature of the proposed project. 

       (6) Prior to
submitting a notice of intent pursuant to subsection (5) of this section, the
City of Pendleton shall hold a public meeting in the water basin in which the
right is located to discuss the proposed project and receive comments from the
public. 

       (7) Within 14
days after receiving a notice of intent submitted pursuant to subsection (5) of
this section, the department shall, in the weekly public notice published by
the department, give public notice of the submission of the notice of intent. 

       (8) The
Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation and the City of
Pendleton have entered into an agreement addressing the development and use of
the City of Pendleton’s water rights in the Umatilla River and the impact on
tribal interests from such development. The agreement includes implementation
of the minimum streamflow in the main stem of the Umatilla River resulting from
the exercise by the City of Pendleton of its surface water right of the north
fork of the Umatilla River under this section. The City of Pendleton shall
exercise such right consistent with the agreement or successor agreements
between the City of Pendleton and the tribes provided in this subsection. In no
event will the City of Pendleton exercise the right granted under this section
so as to reduce streamflows in the Umatilla River to be less than state
in-stream water rights for the Umatilla River existing as of January 1, 2002. [Amended
by 1995 c.359 §1; 2001 c.298 §1; 2025 c.282 §38] 

   

       Note: The amendments to 538.450 by
section 38, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025, become operative April 1, 2026. See
section 48, chapter 282, Oregon Laws 2025, as amended by section 21c, chapter
575, Oregon Laws 2025. The text that is operative until April 1, 2026, is set
forth for the user’s convenience. 

       538.450. (1) Subject to water rights
existing on March 8, 1941, there is granted to the City of Pendleton, Umatilla
County, and its water commission, the exclusive right to use for public or
municipal purposes or use, or for the general use and benefit of people within
or without the city, all waters of the north fork of the Umatilla River, the
springs at the head which form the stream, and its tributaries to the
confluence of the north fork with the main stream of the Umatilla River in the
northwest quarter of section 22, township 3 north of range 37 east of the
Willamette Meridian, which north fork is a tributary of the Umatilla River
situated in Umatilla County. 

       (2) The City of Pendleton,
its water commission, any of the city’s agents, agencies and officers, and
others on its behalf, may appropriate all such waters for these purposes and
uses for the benefit and use of the city, as above set forth, either by the
city in its own name, or by any of its agents, agencies or officers or by any
other persons on its behalf. 

       (3) No person
shall appropriate or be granted a permit to the use of any of such waters,
except as provided in this section. But the City of Pendleton may, under this
grant, divert such waters from their watershed and convey them to the city and
elsewhere for use by it for public or municipal purposes or use or for the
general use and benefit of people within or without the city. All of such
waters are withdrawn from future appropriation, except for use and benefit of
the city as set forth in this section. 

       (4) The point of
diversion of a water right granted under this section may be exercised at the
main stem of the Umatilla River situated in Umatilla County to a point not
below the westerly city limit of the City of Pendleton. 

       (5) Prior to
exercising the right granted under this section, the City of Pendleton shall
submit to the Water Resources Department a notice of intent to exercise the
right. The notice of intent shall be made on a form prescribed by the
department and shall set forth: 

       (a) The name and
mailing address of the applicant; 

       (b) The source of
the water supply including the name and mailing address of any owner of the
land upon which the source of the water supply is located; 

       (c) The nature
and the amount of the proposed use; 

       (d) The time
within which construction of the right is proposed to begin; 

       (e) The time
required to complete construction of the right; 

       (f) The time
required for the complete application of the water to the proposed beneficial
use; 

       (g) The point of
diversion of the exercise of the right; and 

       (h) Any other
information required by the department that is necessary to understand the
nature of the proposed project. 

       (6) Prior to
submitting a notice of intent pursuant to subsection (5) of this section, the
City of Pendleton shall hold a public meeting in the water basin in which the
right is located to discuss the proposed project and receive comments from the
public. 

       (7) Within 14
days after receiving a notice of intent submitted pursuant to subsection (5) of
this section, the department shall, in the weekly notice published by the
department, give public notice of the submission of the notice of intent. 

       (8) The
Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation and the City of
Pendleton have entered into an agreement addressing the development and use of
the City of Pendleton’s water rights in the Umatilla River and the impact on
tribal interests from such development. The agreement includes implementation
of the minimum streamflow in the main stem of the Umatilla River resulting from
the exercise by the City of Pendleton of its surface water right of the north
fork of the Umatilla River under this section. The City of Pendleton shall
exercise such right consistent with the agreement or successor agreements
between the City of Pendleton and the tribes provided in this subsection. In no
event will the City of Pendleton exercise the right granted under this section
so as to reduce streamflows in the Umatilla River to be less than state
in-stream water rights for the Umatilla River existing as of January 1, 2002. 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
