 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
287A — LOCAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING 

 PUBLIC
BORROWING 

 2025
EDITION 

   

 Local
Government Borrowing 

   

 DEFINITIONS 

   

 287A.001  Definitions for ORS
chapter 287A 

   

 AUTHORITY FOR BORROWING 

   

 287A.010  Powers conveyed to public
bodies 

   

 (General Obligation Bonds) 

 287A.050  Authority of city to
issue general obligation bonds 

   

 287A.100  Authority of county to
issue general obligation bonds 

   

 287A.105  Limitation on bonded
indebtedness of county 

   

 287A.140  Ad valorem tax levy to
pay general obligation bonds 

   

 287A.145  Misspent proceeds of
general obligation bonds 

   

 (Revenue Bonds) 

   

 287A.150  Authority of public body
to issue revenue bonds 

   

 287A.180  Short-term borrowing by
public body 

   

 (Debt Limits) 

   

 287A.195  Compliance with
constitutional or statutory debt limits 

   

 ADMINISTRATION OF BONDS 

   

 287A.300  Terms and conditions of
bond sales; delegation of authority 

   

 287A.310  Definitions for ORS
287A.310 and 287A.315; lien of a pledge; Uniform Commercial Code 

   

 287A.315  Pledge of full faith and
credit and taxing power 

   

 287A.325  Covenants of public
bodies regarding pledges 

   

 287A.335  Agreements for exchange
of interest rates; rules 

   

 287A.339  Termination payment of
conduit borrower 

   

 287A.340  Credit enhancement
devices 

   

 287A.343  Public body purchase of
own bonds 

   

 287A.345  State taxation of bond
interest 

   

 287A.350  Public records 

   

 REFUNDING BONDS 

   

 287A.360  Current refunding bonds 

   

 287A.365  Advance refunding bonds
and forward current refunding 

   

 287A.370  Proposed refunding plan
for advance refunding bonds or forward current refunding; rules; fees 

   

 287A.375  Maximum amount of advance
refunding bonds 

   

 287A.380  Tax levy to pay maturing
general obligation advance refunding bonds 

   

 WARRANTS AND CHECKS; INTEREST;
UNCLAIMED WARRANTS AND CHECKS; MASTER WARRANTS 

   

 287A.472  Interest on municipal
warrants not paid on presentation 

   

 287A.474  Warrants and checks more
than two years old; report by fiscal officer; claim by owner 

   

 287A.482  Definitions for ORS
287A.482 to 287A.488 

   

 287A.484  Master warrant procedure
authorized if warrants would be not paid 

   

 287A.486  Procedure 

   

 287A.488  Taxes must be levied for
payment of claims included in master warrant 

   

 OREGON MUNICIPAL DEBT ADVISORY
COMMISSION 

   

 287A.630  Oregon Municipal Debt
Advisory Commission; creation; term; compensation 

   

 287A.632  Meetings; quorum;
personnel 

   

 287A.634  Powers and duties of
commission; rules; fees 

   

 287A.640  Notice to commission of
proposed issues; duty of public bodies to assist; rules 

   

 DEFINITIONS 

   

       287A.001
Definitions for ORS chapter 287A. 
As used in this chapter: 

       (1) “Advance
refunding bond” means a bond all or part of the proceeds of which are to be
used to pay an outstanding bond one year or more after the advance refunding
bond is issued. 

       (2) “Agreement
for exchange of interest rates” means a contract, or an option or forward
commitment to enter into a contract, for an exchange of interest rates for
related bonds that provides for: 

       (a) Payments
based on levels or changes in interest rates; or 

       (b) Provisions to
hedge payment, rate, spread or similar exposure including, but not limited to,
an interest rate floor or cap or an option, put or call. 

       (3)(a) “Bond”
means a contractual undertaking or instrument of a public body to repay
borrowed moneys. 

       (b) “Bond” does
not mean a credit enhancement device. 

       (4) “Capital
construction” has the meaning given that term in ORS 310.140. 

       (5) “Capital
costs” has the meaning given that term in ORS 310.140. 

       (6) “Capital
improvements” has the meaning given that term in ORS 310.140. 

       (7)(a) “Credit
enhancement device” means a letter of credit, line of credit, standby bond
purchase agreement, bond insurance policy, reserve surety bond or other device
or facility used to enhance the creditworthiness, liquidity or marketability of
bonds or agreements for exchange of interest rates. 

       (b) “Credit
enhancement device” does not mean a bond. 

       (8) “Current
refunding bond” means a bond the proceeds of which are to be used to pay or
purchase an outstanding bond less than one year after the current refunding
bond is issued. 

       (9) “Forward
current refunding” means execution and delivery of a purchase agreement or
similar instrument under which a public body contracts to sell current
refunding bonds for delivery at a future date that is one year or more after
execution of the purchase agreement or similar instrument. 

       (10) “General
obligation bond” means exempt bonded indebtedness, as defined in ORS 310.140,
that is secured by a commitment to levy ad valorem taxes outside the limits of
sections 11 and 11b, Article XI, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (11) “Lawfully
available funds” means revenues or other moneys of a public body including, but
not limited to, moneys credited to the general fund of the public body,
revenues from an ad valorem tax and revenues derived from other taxes levied by
the public body that are not dedicated, restricted or obligated by law or
contract to an inconsistent expenditure or use. 

       (12) “Operative
document” means a bond declaration, trust agreement, indenture, security
agreement or other document in which a public body pledges revenue or property
as security for a bond. 

       (13) “Pledge”
means: 

       (a) To create a
lien on property pursuant to ORS 287A.140. 

       (b) A lien on
property created pursuant to ORS 287A.140. 

       (c) To create a
lien on property pursuant to ORS 287A.310. 

       (d) A lien on
property created pursuant to ORS 287A.310. 

       (14) “Public body”
means: 

       (a) A county of
this state; 

       (b) A city of
this state; 

       (c) A local
service district as defined in ORS 174.116 (2); 

       (d) A special
government body as defined in ORS 174.117; 

       (e) Oregon Health
and Science University; 

       (f) A public
university listed in ORS 352.002; or 

       (g) Any other
political subdivision of this state that is authorized by the Legislative
Assembly to issue bonds. 

       (15) “Refunding
bond” means an advance refunding bond, a current refunding bond or a forward
current refunding bond. 

       (16) “Related
bond” means a bond for which the public body enters into an agreement for
exchange of interest rates or obtains a credit enhancement device. 

       (17) “Revenue”
means all fees, tolls, excise taxes, assessments, property taxes and other
taxes, rates, charges, rentals and other income or receipts derived by a public
body or to which a public body is entitled. 

       (18) “Revenue
bond” means a bond that is not a general obligation bond. 

       (19) “Termination
payment” means the amount payable under an agreement for exchange of interest
rates by one party to another party as a result of the termination, in whole or
part, of the agreement prior to the expiration of the stated term. [2007 c.783 §42;
2009 c.537 §9; 2013 c.491 §2; 2013 c.768 §28; 2015 c.53 §2; 2015 c.767 §88] 

   

 AUTHORITY FOR BORROWING 

   

       287A.010
Powers conveyed to public bodies. 
The powers conveyed to public bodies by ORS 287A.001 to 287A.380 are in
addition to any other powers possessed by public bodies and do not limit those
other powers. [2007 c.783 §68] 

   

 (General Obligation
Bonds) 

   

       287A.050
Authority of city to issue general obligation bonds. (1) Upon approval of the electors
of a city, the city may issue general obligation bonds to finance: 

       (a) Capital
construction or capital improvements permitted by Article XI, sections 11 and
11b, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (b) Capital costs
permitted by Article XI, section 11L, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) Unless the
city charter provides a lesser limitation, a city may not issue or have
outstanding at the time of issuance general obligation bonds in a principal
amount that exceeds three percent of the real market value of the taxable
property within its boundaries, calculated as provided in ORS 308.207. 

       (3) The
limitation described in subsection (2) of this section does not apply to
general obligation bonds issued: 

       (a) To finance
the costs of local improvements assessed and paid for in installments under
statutory or charter authority. 

       (b) To finance
capital construction or capital improvements permitted by Article XI, sections
11 and 11b, of the Oregon Constitution, or to finance capital costs permitted
by Article XI, section 11L, of the Oregon Constitution, for: 

       (A) Water supply,
treatment or distribution; 

       (B) Sanitary or
storm sewage collection or treatment; 

       (C) Hospitals or
infirmaries; 

       (D) Gas, power or
lighting; or 

       (E) Off-street
motor vehicle parking facilities. [2007 c.783 §43; 2013 c.491 §3] 

   

       287A.100
Authority of county to issue general obligation bonds. (1) Unless the county charter
expressly provides otherwise, upon approval of the electors of a county, the
county may issue general obligation bonds to finance: 

       (a) Capital
construction or capital improvements permitted by Article XI, sections 11 and
11b, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (b) Capital costs
permitted by Article XI, section 11L, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) Unless the
county charter provides a lesser limitation, a county may not issue or have
outstanding at the time of issuance general obligation bonds in a principal
amount that exceeds two percent of the real market value of the taxable
property in the county, calculated as provided in ORS 308.207. [2007 c.783 §44;
2013 c.491 §4] 

   

       287A.105
Limitation on bonded indebtedness of county. (1) A county may incur bonded indebtedness within the
meaning of section 10, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution, by issuing
revenue bonds when a county is expressly authorized to issue revenue bonds by a
law other than this section. The amount of revenue bonds permitted by this
section may not exceed the lesser of: 

       (a) One percent
of the real market value of all taxable property in the county, calculated as
provided in ORS 308.207; or 

       (b) A limitation
on bonded indebtedness in the county charter. 

       (2) The
limitation on bonded indebtedness in subsection (1) of this section does not
apply to revenue bonds issued to finance pension liabilities under ORS 238.692
to 238.698 or any other law in effect prior to enactment of ORS 238.692 to
238.698. [2007 c.783 §45] 

   

       287A.140 Ad
valorem tax levy to pay general obligation bonds. (1) In addition to other taxes
imposed, a public body shall levy annually an ad valorem property tax on the
taxable property within the boundaries of the public body in an amount that is
sufficient, when added to other amounts available, to pay the principal of and
interest on outstanding general obligation bonds issued by the public body. 

       (2) A public body
may: 

       (a) Use the
revenues from a levy under this section and earnings on the revenues only to
pay the principal of and interest on general obligation bonds. 

       (b) Not use or
divert taxes levied under subsection (1) of this section for another purpose
while principal or interest remains unpaid on the bonds. 

       (c) If a surplus
amount remains after the principal of and interest on an issue of general
obligation bonds have been paid and the public body does not have other
expenses related to the bonds, transfer the surplus moneys to a fund designated
by the governing body of the public body. 

       (3) Revenues from
a levy by a public body pursuant to this section and earnings on the revenues
are pledged as security for payment of the principal of and interest on general
obligation bonds of the public body. 

       (4) A pledge
under this section has the effect of a pledge under ORS 287A.310. [2007 c.783 §67;
2015 c.53 §1] 

   

       287A.145
Misspent proceeds of general obligation bonds. (1) If a court of competent
jurisdiction determines that the proceeds of an issue of general obligation
bonds have been used by a public body for expenditures that are not capital
costs permitted by Article XI, section 11L, of the Oregon Constitution, or that
are not costs of capital construction or capital improvements permitted by
Article XI, sections 11 and 11b, of the Oregon Constitution, the court may
order the public body to: 

       (a) Replace the
misspent proceeds with interest, on a reasonable schedule determined by the
court, from moneys other than the tax revenues that the public body levies to
pay the debt service; and 

       (b) Use the
replaced moneys, as appropriate, for capital costs, for the costs of capital
construction or capital improvements or to pay the debt service. 

       (2) If the public
body fails to comply with an order to replace the misspent proceeds or
acknowledges that the public body is unable to replace the misspent proceeds,
the court may determine that a portion of the future levies to pay the debt
service is subject to the limits of Article XI, sections 11 and 11b, of the
Oregon Constitution, by calculating the amount of the tax revenues that are
necessary to pay the principal and interest on the bonds that is allocable to
the misspent proceeds. 

       (3) An action may
not be filed or maintained against a public body because of an alleged
expenditure of the bond proceeds of general obligation bonds for purposes other
than capital costs, capital construction or capital improvements, if the
misspent moneys are less than $5,000. [2007 c.783 §66; 2013 c.491 §5] 

   

       Note: Section 1, chapter 684, Oregon
Laws 2013, provides: 

       Sec. 1. (1) A change in the use of
facilities that were constructed, in whole or in part, with net proceeds of
general obligation bonds of a county does not cause the expenditure of the net
proceeds to be an improper expenditure of bond proceeds for which a court may
issue an order described in ORS 287A.145 if: 

       (a) The general
obligation bonds were approved at an election conducted on May 21, 1996; and 

       (b) The bond
proceeds were spent for purposes allowed by the ballot measure authorizing the
bonds and by Article XI, sections 11 and 11b, of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (2) The change in
the use of facilities described in subsection (1) of this section does not
affect any authority the county may have to impose taxes outside the
limitations imposed by Article XI, sections 11 and 11b, of the Oregon
Constitution, for the original bonds or bonds issued to refund the original
bonds. 

       (3) The county
shall use any revenue from the change in the use of facilities to reduce the
taxes imposed to pay bond-related costs. [2013 c.684 §1] 

   

       287A.150
Authority of public body to issue revenue bonds. (1) In addition to any other
authority to issue revenue bonds, a public body may authorize revenue bonds by
resolution or nonemergency ordinance pursuant to this section for a public
purpose. 

       (2) If revenue
bonds are authorized by nonemergency ordinance, a public body may not sell the
revenue bonds pursuant to this section until the period for referral of the
ordinance has expired. If electors of a public body refer a nonemergency
ordinance authorizing issuance of revenue bonds, the public body may not sell
the revenue bonds unless the electors approve issuance of the revenue bonds. 

       (3) If revenue
bonds are authorized by resolution: 

       (a) A public body
may not sell the revenue bonds until at least 60 days following publication of
the notice required in subsection (4) of this section. 

       (b) The
resolution must provide that electors residing within the public body may file
a petition with the public body asking the public body to refer the question of
whether to issue the revenue bonds to a vote. If within 60 days after the
publication of the notice described in subsection (4) of this section, electors
file petitions with the public body containing valid signatures of at least
five percent of the public body’s electors, the public body: 

       (A) Shall place
the question of issuing the revenue bonds on the ballot at the next lawfully
available election date; and 

       (B) May not sell
the revenue bonds described in the notice unless a majority of the electors
voting on the question of issuing the revenue bonds approve. 

       (4) A public body
authorizing revenue bonds by resolution shall publish a notice describing the
purposes for which the revenue bonds will be sold in at least one newspaper of
general circulation within the boundaries of the public body in the same manner
as other public notices of the public body. At a minimum, the notice must
contain: 

       (a) The date the
resolution was adopted and the number thereof, if any; 

       (b) The expected
source of revenue for repayment of the revenue bonds; 

       (c) The estimated
principal amount of the revenue bonds to be sold; 

       (d) The
procedures by which electors may cause the question of issuing the revenue
bonds to be referred to a vote; 

       (e) The period
within which electors must file signed petitions to cause referral; and 

       (f) The fact that
the resolution is available for inspection at the appropriate office of the
public body. 

       (5) If revenue
bonds are authorized by nonemergency ordinance under subsection (2) of this
section, the revenue bonds may be secured by the revenues or other property of
the public body that is described in the nonemergency ordinance. If revenue
bonds are authorized by resolution under subsection (3) of this section, the
revenue bonds may be secured by the revenues or other property of the public
body that is described in the notice required under subsection (4) of this
section. 

       (6) A public body
may issue refunding bonds under ORS 287A.360 to 287A.380 to pay revenue bonds
that were authorized by this section. The procedures and limitations of
subsections (1) to (5) of this section do not apply to refunding bonds. [2007
c.783 §46] 

   

       287A.180
Short-term borrowing by public body. 
(1) In addition to any other authority to issue revenue bonds, but subject to
applicable limitations imposed by the Oregon Constitution or the charter or
ordinance of the public body, a public body may issue revenue bonds pursuant to
this section: 

       (a) In
anticipation of tax revenues or other moneys; 

       (b) To provide
interim financing for capital projects to be undertaken by the public body; or 

       (c) To refund
revenue bonds issued pursuant to this section. 

       (2) To secure
revenue bonds authorized under this section, a public body may: 

       (a) Pledge all or
part of the revenues of the public body that may lawfully be used to secure
payment of the revenue bonds. 

       (b) Obtain credit
enhancement devices for the revenue bonds authorized by this section. 

       (c) Establish
debt service reserves. 

       (d) Enter into
covenants, by ordinance, resolution or agreement, for the protection and
security of the owners of revenue bonds authorized by this section. The
covenants constitute enforceable contracts with the owners of the revenue
bonds. 

       (3) Revenue bonds
authorized by this section that are issued in anticipation of revenues and
revenue bonds issued under subsection (1)(c) of this section: 

       (a) Must mature
within 13 months after they are issued; and 

       (b) May not be
issued in a principal amount that exceeds 80 percent of the taxes or other
revenues, except grant moneys, that the public body has budgeted or otherwise
reasonably expects to have available to pay the revenue bonds. 

       (4) Revenue bonds
authorized by this section that are issued in anticipation of grant moneys or
to provide interim financing for capital projects and revenue bonds issued
under subsection (1)(c) of this section must mature not later than five years
after the revenue bonds are issued. 

       (5) The debt
limitations imposed by law or the charter of a public body do not apply to
revenue bonds or credit enhancement devices authorized by this section. [2007
c.783 §47] 

   

 (Debt Limits) 

   

       287A.195
Compliance with constitutional or statutory debt limits. (1) When calculating compliance
with a constitutional or statutory debt limit for a public body: 

       (a) The amount of
interest to be paid on bonds, whether paid currently or deferred, is not taken
into account. 

       (b) For a zero
coupon bond or other original discount bond on which periodic interest payments
are not made, only the accreted value of the bond on the date the bond is
issued is taken into account. 

       (c) If a bond is
issued to a provider of a credit enhancement device for a bond that is subject
to a debt limit, the bond issued to the provider must be taken into account
only to the extent that the amount of the bond issued to the provider exceeds
the amount of the bond secured by the credit enhancement device. 

       (d) A public body
may deduct from the amount of outstanding indebtedness: 

       (A) The amount of
money and investments that the public body or a trustee of the public body or a
trustee or agent of the public body holds to pay bonds that have not been
defeased. 

       (B) The principal
amount of bonds that have been defeased. 

       (2) For purposes
of this section, a bond is defeased if: 

       (a) The public
body has set aside in an irrevocable escrow government obligations, as defined
in ORS 287A.375, the receipts from which have been calculated by a certified
public accountant or other experienced professional to be sufficient, without
reinvestment, to pay the principal, interest and premium, if any, due on the
bond at maturity or on prior redemption; or 

       (b) The public
body has complied with the provisions in the documents authorizing the bond
that govern payment or defeasance of the bond. [2007 c.783 §64] 

   

 ADMINISTRATION OF BONDS 

   

       287A.300 Terms
and conditions of bond sales; delegation of authority. (1) Notwithstanding a local
charter or statutory limitation, when a public body is authorized by law to
issue bonds, the public body may: 

       (a) Combine bonds
authorized by different laws or actions of the governing body into a single
issue and use a single disclosure document if the bonds in the issue will have
the same security, or may use a single disclosure document for bonds authorized
by different laws or actions of the governing body if the bonds have different
security. 

       (b) Structure,
market and issue bonds in the manner that the public body determines is in the
best interest of the people served by the public body. 

       (c) Sell bonds at
a competitive sale or a negotiated sale or in any other manner determined by
the public body. 

       (d) Issue bonds
the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxes or is not exempt from
federal income taxes. 

       (e) Establish the
maturity dates for bonds to provide for short-term, interim or long-term
borrowing and establish the principal amounts, redemption provisions, optional
or mandatory tender provisions, interest rates or method for determining a
variable or adjustable interest rate, denominations and other terms and
conditions of the bonds. 

       (f) Determine the
form and content of bond disclosure documents. 

       (g) Enter into an
agreement with and retain the services of bond counsel and other providers of
bond-related services. 

       (h) Execute and
deliver indentures, bond purchase agreements, trust agreements, remarketing
agreements, auction agent agreements, broker dealer agreements, tender agent
agreements, escrow agreements and other contracts related to the sale,
issuance, security for or administration of the bonds. 

       (i) Enter into
agreements with bond trustees and deposit moneys with trustees for the benefit
of bond owners and the providers of credit enhancement devices for bonds. 

       (j) Enter into
covenants for the benefit of bond owners or the providers of credit enhancement
devices or agreements for exchange of interest rates, including but not limited
to covenants regarding the issuance of additional bonds and rate covenants. 

       (k) Enter into
covenants for the benefit of owners of bonds that are intended to allow bonds
to bear interest that is excludable from gross income under the federal
Internal Revenue Code or that is otherwise exempt from taxation by the United
States. 

       (L) Take action
to comply with covenants. 

       (m) Establish
bond debt service reserves. 

       (n) Fund debt
service reserves out of bond proceeds or from other revenues. 

       (o) Specify the
individuals who may sign the bonds on behalf of the public body. 

       (2) When the
Oregon Constitution, a charter, a statute, an ordinance or a resolution
authorizes a public body to spend bond proceeds for a particular purpose, the
public body may also spend bond proceeds to finance costs of issuing,
administering and repaying the bonds, including costs of the services of bond
counsel or other providers of bond-related services, and to pay the costs of a
credit enhancement device or agreement for exchange of interest rates. 

       (3) When a public
body redeems bonds, the public body shall give notice of redemption in the
manner specified in the documents authorizing the bonds to be redeemed. 

       (4) A public body
may delegate to an elected or appointed official or an employee of the public
body the authority to take an action described in subsection (1) of this
section. 

       (5) Except as
provided otherwise in this subsection, at least one of the signatures of bond
signatories must be provided in manual form. However, if the bonds are to be
authenticated by at least one signature in manual form, all signatures of bond
signatories may be in facsimile form. [2007 c.783 §§48,49; 2009 c.538 §7; 2011
c.256 §2a] 

   

       287A.310
Definitions for ORS 287A.310 and 287A.315; lien of a pledge; Uniform Commercial
Code. (1) As used
in this section and ORS 287A.315: 

       (a) “Obligation”
means: 

       (A) A bond; 

       (B) The
commitment of a public body in connection with a credit enhancement device; or 

       (C) An agreement
for exchange of interest rates. 

       (b) “Property”
means: 

       (A) Real or
personal property, tangible or intangible, whether owned when a pledge is made
or acquired subsequently to the time the pledge is made; and 

       (B) Revenues,
contract rights, receivables or securities. 

       (2) The Uniform
Commercial Code does not apply to the creation, perfection, priority or
enforcement of a lien of a pledge made by a public body. 

       (3) When
otherwise authorized by statute, charter, ordinance or resolution to issue
bonds, a public body may pledge as security for payment of obligations all or
part of the property of the public body expressly authorized to be pledged by
the governing body of the public body. 

       (4) The lien
created by a pledge is valid and binding from the time the pledge is made.
Pledged property is subject immediately to the lien of the pledge without
physical delivery, filing or any other act. 

       (5) Except as
otherwise expressly provided in an operative document, the lien of the pledge
is superior to and has priority over all other claims and liens. 

       (6) When property
subject to a pledge is acquired by a public body after the pledge is made: 

       (a) The property
is subject to the lien upon acquisition by the public body without physical
delivery, filing or any other act. 

       (b) The lien
relates to the time the pledge was originally made. 

       (7) A public body
may reserve a right to pledge a pledged property as security for bonds
subsequently issued by the public body. If the public body reserves the right,
subject to the terms of the operative document that created a previous pledge,
the lien of the subsequent pledge may be on a parity or pari passu basis with
the lien of the previous pledge, on a prior and superior basis with the lien of
the previous pledge or on a subordinate basis with the lien of the previous
pledge, as specified in the operative document creating the subsequent pledge.
The lien of the subsequent pledge: 

       (a) Has the
priority specified in the operative document creating the subsequent pledge;
and 

       (b) Is superior
to and has priority over all other claims and liens except the lien of a pledge
with which the lien of the subsequent pledge is on a parity or subordinate
basis, as specified in the operative document. 

       (8) A pledgee may
commence an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to foreclose the lien
of the pledge and exercise rights and remedies available to the pledgee under
the operative document. 

       (9) When pledged
property consists of moneys or property that is in a fund for debt service
reserves or payments, a pledgee may foreclose the lien of the pledge by
applying the moneys or property in the fund to the payment of the bonds subject
to the terms, conditions and limitations in the operative document. [2007 c.783
§50] 

   

       287A.315
Pledge of full faith and credit and taxing power. (1) A public body may pledge its
full faith and credit and taxing power when the public body issues: 

       (a) A general
obligation bond; or 

       (b) An obligation
that is secured by all lawfully available funds of the public body. 

       (2) When a public
body pledges its full faith and credit and taxing power to pay an obligation,
the pledge constitutes an enforceable promise or contract by the public body: 

       (a) To pay the
obligation out of lawfully available funds of the public body; and 

       (b) If lawfully
available funds are insufficient to pay when due the amounts owing on the
obligation, to levy, impose and collect a tax that is within the authority of
the public body to levy, impose and collect in an amount sufficient to pay the
amounts owing under the obligation, including past due amounts and penalties. 

       (3) If a public
body fails to pay when due an amount owing under an obligation secured by a
pledge of the full faith and credit and taxing power of the public body, the
owner of the obligation, or the trustee appointed to act on behalf of the
owner, may bring an action in the circuit court of the county in which the
principal offices of the public body are located to compel the public body: 

       (a) To
appropriate and expend sufficient lawfully available funds to pay the amounts
owing on the obligation; or 

       (b) If lawfully
available funds are insufficient to pay when due the amounts owing on the
obligation, to levy, impose and collect a tax that is within the authority of
the public body to levy, impose and collect in an amount sufficient to pay the
amounts owing under the obligation, including past due amounts and penalties. 

       (4) An owner of
the obligation, or a trustee appointed to act on behalf of the owner, may
initiate a proceeding to impose remedial sanctions under ORS 33.055 against
members of the governing body of a public body for failure to comply with an
order of the court under this section. 

       (5) A pledge of
the full faith and credit and taxing power authorized by this section does not,
by itself, create a lien on the revenues or property of the public body. [2007
c.783 §50a] 

   

       287A.325
Covenants of public bodies regarding pledges. (1) The Legislative Assembly finds that: 

       (a) It is a
matter of statewide concern that certain covenants made by public bodies
regarding a pledge of revenues to secure bonds not be impaired by subsequent
initiative or referendum measures. 

       (b) The covenants
described in paragraph (a) of this subsection usually are in the form of a
promise to charge and collect rates, fees, tolls, rentals or other charges
sufficient to produce moneys to maintain a specified level of debt service
coverage. 

       (c) The
possibility that the covenants described in paragraph (a) of this subsection
might be rolled back, frozen or otherwise subjected to subsequently imposed
conditions or restrictions negatively affects the ability of public bodies to
market their bonds, to obtain credit enhancement and to obtain satisfactory
ratings on their bonds. 

       (2) Therefore,
the Legislative Assembly declares that covenants are material to the security
for bonds and to investors’ expectations regarding timely payment of the bonds. 

       (3) An
elector-approved initiative or referendum measure that purports to change
ordinances or resolutions affecting rates, fees, tolls, rentals or other
charges has no force or effect if giving force and effect to the change would
impair existing covenants made with existing bond owners. 

       (4) A public body
may enter into rate covenants that obligate the public body to periodically set
rates and charges: 

       (a) That generate
pledged revenues at specific levels including, but not limited to, a specific
monetary charge for each unit of commodity or service provided or a schedule of
rates and charges that includes fixed and variable components; 

       (b) At levels
sufficient to maintain underlying credit ratings assigned to bonds by one or
more nationally recognized credit rating services without regard to improvement
in credit ratings due to the additional security provided for the bonds by a
credit enhancement device; 

       (c) That generate
pledged revenues each year in amounts at least equal to operations and
maintenance expenses of the system that produces the pledged revenues, plus
debt service on revenue bonds and other borrowings, plus an additional amount
that is reasonably required to obtain favorable terms for the revenue bonds and
other borrowings; or 

       (d) In accordance
with a formula established in the operative document governing revenue bonds or
other borrowings. The formula may provide for rates and charges to be
determined by reference to factors including, but not limited to: 

       (A) Historical
operating expenses; 

       (B) Projected
future operating expenses; 

       (C) The funding
of depreciation; 

       (D) The costs of
capital improvements; 

       (E) The costs of
complying with contractual obligations and covenants; 

       (F) The costs of
complying with regulatory requirements; 

       (G) Reports of
independent consultants regarding the level of pledged revenues required to
operate and maintain a utility in accordance with prudent utility practice; 

       (H) Debt service
on the revenue bonds or other borrowings bonds; and 

       (I) The moneys
needed to establish or maintain reserves required by law or contract and the
moneys needed to maintain an unencumbered carryforward fund balance or working
capital to meet unanticipated expenses or fluctuations in revenues that may
arise. 

       (5) Without
regard to the date of execution of a rate covenant, a rate covenant authorized
by this section is a contract that binds the public body and is enforceable
against the public body in accordance with the terms of the rate covenant. [2007
c.783 §51] 

   

       287A.335
Agreements for exchange of interest rates; rules. (1) As used in this section, “counterparty”
means an entity with whom a public body enters into an agreement for exchange
of interest rates. 

       (2) Upon a
finding by a public body that an agreement for exchange of interest rates
benefits the public body, the public body may enter into the agreement for
exchange of interest rates with a counterparty. An agreement for exchange of
interest rates may be made to manage payment, interest rate, spread or similar
exposure undertaken in connection with related bonds that: 

       (a) Exist when
the agreement for exchange of interest rates is executed; 

       (b) Are
reasonably expected to be executed when regularly scheduled payments are due
from the issuer under the agreement; or 

       (c) Are
identified after the agreement for exchange of interest rates is executed and
substituted for related bonds described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this
subsection as a result of prepayment, refunding, conversion, ratings changes,
redemption, defeasance or other similar event. 

       (3) Upon entering
into an agreement for exchange of interest rates under this section and
continuing until the agreement is satisfied, terminated or otherwise no longer
in effect, provided a payment default has not occurred, the public body may
treat the amount or rate of interest on the related bond as the amount or rate
of interest payable after giving effect to the agreement for exchange of
interest rates for the purpose of calculating: 

       (a) Tax levies to
pay regularly scheduled bond debt service; and 

       (b) Other amounts
that are based on the rate of interest of the bond. 

       (4) Subject to
covenants applicable to a related bond and the limitations of this section,
payments required under an agreement for exchange of interest rates may: 

       (a) Be treated as
interest payments on the related bond; 

       (b) Be made from
revenues or other moneys contributed to or legally available to pay the related
bond; and 

       (c) Rank in an
order of priority of payment relative to the payment of the related bond as the
public body determines. 

       (5) In connection
with entering into an agreement for exchange of interest rates, a public body
may obtain a credit enhancement device to secure the agreement for exchange of
interest rates. 

       (6) An agreement
for exchange of interest rates entered into under this section: 

       (a) Is not a debt
or other obligation of the issuer for purposes of any limitation upon the
indebtedness of the issuer. 

       (b) Is subject
only to the limitations of this section and is not subject to other limitations
applicable to the related borrowing. 

       (7) A termination
payment required to be paid by the public body under an agreement for exchange
of interest rates: 

       (a) May be paid
from moneys derived from the issuance and sale of revenue bonds. 

       (b) May not be
paid from ad valorem property taxes levied outside the limitations of section
11 or 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution. 

       (8) The Oregon
Municipal Debt Advisory Commission shall adopt administrative rules
establishing required terms, conditions, annual or periodic reporting
requirements and other requirements for an agreement for exchange of interest
rates entered into by a public body, if the commission determines those
requirements are desirable to protect the interests of the public body. 

       (9) A public body
may create reserves to pay amounts due under agreements for exchange of
interest rates and fund the reserves with moneys derived from the issuance and
sale of bonds or from revenues or other moneys described in subsection (4)(b)
of this section. [2007 c.783 §53; 2009 c.538 §8] 

   

       287A.339
Termination payment of conduit borrower. When a public body is authorized by law to issue
bonds, the public body may lend moneys derived from an issuance and sale of
bonds to a conduit borrower of proceeds from outstanding, previously issued
conduit revenue bonds for the purpose of paying a termination payment required
to be paid by the borrower under an agreement for exchange of interest rates
entered into by the borrower in relation to the outstanding conduit revenue
bonds. [2009 c.538 §6] 

   

       Note: 287A.339 was added to and made a
part of ORS chapter 287A by legislative action but was not added to any smaller
series therein. See Preface to Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       287A.340
Credit enhancement devices. 
(1) A public body may obtain a credit enhancement device and enter into related
agreements. 

       (2) The public
body may pay the provider of the credit enhancement device from the same
sources that the public body may lawfully use to pay the related bonds or from
any other legally available source. 

       (3) The public
body may issue a bond to the provider of a credit enhancement device to secure
the obligations of the public body or to pay amounts due to the provider. [2007
c.783 §52] 

   

       287A.343
Public body purchase of own bonds. 
(1) Notwithstanding any limitation in a local charter, a public body may bid
for, purchase, hold, cause to be held in trust and remarket bonds issued by the
public body. 

       (2) Except as
otherwise provided in the operative documents, the purchase or acquisition of
bonds under this section does not cancel or extinguish the bonds unless the
public body elects in writing to cancel or extinguish the bonds. [2009 c.537 §4] 

   

       Note: 287A.343 was added to and made a
part of ORS chapter 287A by legislative action but was not added to any smaller
series therein. See Preface to Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation. 

   

       287A.345 State
taxation of bond interest. 
Interest on bonds of a public body is exempt from personal income tax under ORS
chapter 316. [2007 c.783 §65] 

   

       287A.350
Public records. 
The records of registered bond ownership, whether maintained by a public body
or otherwise, are not public records within the meaning of ORS 192.311. [2007
c.783 §69; 2017 c.456 §10] 

   

 REFUNDING BONDS 

   

       287A.360
Current refunding bonds. 
(1) In addition to any other authority to issue refunding bonds, a public body
may issue current refunding bonds to refund or purchase its outstanding bonds. 

       (2) A public body
may secure current refunding bonds with any of the revenues and covenants that
the public body could have used to secure the refunded or purchased bonds under
the law in effect when the refunded or purchased bonds were issued and with revenues
and covenants that the public body could have used to secure the refunded or
purchased bonds if the laws that are in effect when the current refunding bonds
are issued were in effect when the refunded or purchased bonds were issued. 

       (3) A public body
may authorize current refunding bonds by resolution or ordinance without
complying with the procedural requirements that applied to the refunded or
purchased bonds, including issuing: 

       (a) General
obligation bonds to refund or purchase outstanding general obligation bonds
without obtaining approval of the electors of the public body. 

       (b) Revenue bonds
to refund or purchase revenue bonds that were issued in accordance with ORS
287A.150 without complying with the procedures prescribed in ORS 287A.150. 

       (4) The
maturities of current refunding bonds authorized by this section may not exceed
by more than six months: 

       (a) Maturity
limits that were established by the electors for the refunded or purchased
bonds; and 

       (b) A maturity
limit imposed by a provision of a constitution, charter or statute that applied
to the refunded or purchased bonds, if the provision imposing the limit is in
effect when the current refunding bonds are issued. [2007 c.783 §54; 2009 c.538
§9; 2011 c.256 §1] 

   

       287A.365
Advance refunding bonds and forward current refunding. (1) The Legislative Assembly
declares that the issuance of advance refunding bonds and the authority to
effect a forward current refunding are matters of general statewide concern,
and ORS 287A.360 to 287A.380 preempt all local statutory or charter authority
to issue advance refunding bonds or to effect a forward current refunding. 

       (2) A public body
may issue advance refunding bonds or enter into forward current refundings in
compliance with: 

       (a) ORS 287A.360
to 287A.380; and 

       (b) Rules adopted
by the State Treasurer. 

       (3) A public body
may secure advance refunding bonds and forward current refunding bonds with any
of the revenues and covenants that the public body could have used to secure
the refunded bonds under the law in effect when the refunded bonds were issued and
with revenues and covenants that the public body could have used to secure the
refunded bonds if the laws that are in effect when the refunding bonds are
issued were in effect when the refunded bonds were issued. 

       (4) The
maturities of advance refunding bonds and forward current refunding bonds
authorized by this section may not exceed by more than six months: 

       (a) Maturity
limits that were established by the electors for the refunded bonds; and 

       (b) A maturity
limit imposed by a provision of a constitution, charter or statute that applied
to the refunded bonds, if the provision imposing the limit is in effect when
the refunding bonds are issued. [2007 c.783 §55; 2011 c.256 §2] 

   

       287A.370
Proposed refunding plan for advance refunding bonds or forward current
refunding; rules; fees. 
(1) The State Treasurer shall review the plan of a public body to issue advance
refunding bonds or to enter into a forward current refunding to determine
whether the plan complies with applicable rules of the State Treasurer, as
provided in this section. 

       (2) After
adoption of an ordinance or resolution approving a plan to issue advance
refunding bonds or to enter into a forward current refunding, a public body
shall submit the refunding plan to the State Treasurer for review and approval. 

       (3) After review
of a proposed refunding plan, the State Treasurer shall advise the public body,
in writing, whether the plan is approved. If the State Treasurer does not
notify the public body within 30 business days after receipt of the plan, the
plan is deemed approved. A public body may issue advance refunding bonds or
enter into a forward current refunding in accordance with a refunding plan
approved by the State Treasurer. 

       (4) The State
Treasurer may adopt rules to regulate forward current refunding and the
issuance of advance refunding bonds. 

       (5) The State
Treasurer may charge public bodies fees and expenses as provided in ORS
286A.014 in connection with the activities of this section. [2007 c.783 §56] 

   

       287A.375
Maximum amount of advance refunding bonds. (1) As used in this section, “government obligations”
means: 

       (a) Direct
obligations of the United States of America or obligations the principal of and
interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of
America and bank certificates of deposit secured by the obligations; 

       (b) Bonds,
debentures, notes, certificates of participation or other obligations issued by
a federal agency or other instrumentality of the federal government; or 

       (c) Other debt
obligations determined by administrative rule of the State Treasurer to be
highly secured and widely accepted in the marketplace as obligations for a
defeasance escrow. 

       (2) A public body
may not issue advance refunding bonds in a principal amount in excess of the
minimum principal amount that is estimated at the time of sale to be necessary: 

       (a) To purchase a
principal amount of government obligations that is, together with the interest
earnings thereon, sufficient to pay the installments of principal, interest and
redemption premiums, if any, on the bonds being refunded when due in accordance
with the advance refunding plan; and 

       (b) To pay all
costs in connection with issuing the advance refunding bonds and obtaining
credit enhancement devices. 

       (3) If the public
body that issues advance refunding bonds receives an amount of proceeds that
exceeds the actual amount required under subsection (2) of this section, the
public body must use the excess amount of proceeds to pay interest on the
advance refunding bonds. 

       (4) Before
applying advance refunding bond proceeds to the purposes for which the
refunding bonds have been issued, a public body may invest advance refunding
bond proceeds, together with other moneys set aside for the payment of the
bonds to be refunded, only in government obligations. 

       (5) The public
body shall make investments pursuant to subsection (4) of this section at times
and in a manner required to provide funds sufficient to pay principal, interest
and redemption premiums, if any, in accordance with the advance refunding plan.
[2007 c.783 §57] 

   

       287A.380 Tax
levy to pay maturing general obligation advance refunding bonds. (1) Pursuant to ORS 287A.140, a
public body shall levy taxes to pay the maturing interest and principal of
advance refunding bonds that are general obligation bonds. 

       (2)
Notwithstanding ORS 287A.140 or any other provision of law, a public body may
not cause a tax to be levied to pay the maturing interest and principal of
general obligation bonds that have been defeased as described in ORS 287A.195
(2), unless the amounts held to defease the bonds are insufficient. [2007 c.783
§59] 

   

 WARRANTS AND CHECKS;
INTEREST; UNCLAIMED WARRANTS AND CHECKS; MASTER WARRANTS 

   

       287A.472
Interest on municipal warrants not paid on presentation. All warrants for payment of money
issued by cities and other municipalities that are not paid upon presentation
and so indorsed shall draw interest at the legal rate after such indorsements
but municipalities may by proper resolution fix the rate at less than the legal
rate and may make such interest payable semiannually. [Formerly 287.452] 

   

       287A.474
Warrants and checks more than two years old; report by fiscal officer; claim by
owner. (1) The
county fiscal officer shall prepare a report of all warrants and checks issued
more than two years prior to July 1 of that year that have not been paid,
pursuant to ORS 98.352. 

       (2) The lawful
owner of any warrant or check included in any list referred to in subsection
(1) of this section, not presented to the county treasurer for payment and not
paid, thereafter may file a claim with the State Treasurer in the manner
provided by ORS 98.392 and 98.396. [Formerly 287.454; 2019 c.678 §60] 

   

       287A.482
Definitions for ORS 287A.482 to 287A.488. As used in ORS 287A.482 to 287A.488: 

       (1) “County
fiscal officer” means: 

       (a) The county
accountant in counties where such office is established by law. 

       (b) The county
clerk in counties not having a county accountant. 

       (2) “Master
warrant” means a warrant or order issued and drawn pursuant to ORS 287A.486. [Formerly
287.482] 

   

       287A.484
Master warrant procedure authorized if warrants would be not paid. Whenever the county fiscal officer
audits and approves a claim and issues a warrant therefor and at the same time
or subsequently ascertains that the county treasurer has not sufficient moneys
in the particular fund of the county from which the claim so approved and
allowed is payable and that the warrant as issued against that fund for the
payment of the claim would be indorsed “Not Paid for Want of Funds,” the county
fiscal officer may, with approval by resolution of the county court or the
board of county commissioners, issue a master warrant to any person for the
purpose of obtaining money to pay such claim. The money shall be obtained only
in the manner provided in ORS 287A.486. [Formerly 287.484] 

   

       287A.486
Procedure. (1) The
county fiscal officer shall draw a master warrant in the amount of one or more
claims referred to in ORS 287A.484, payable to any person who is willing to
accept the master warrant, and such person shall, upon delivery of the master
warrant duly indorsed “Not Paid for Want of Funds,” pay to the county treasurer
the full amount for which the master warrant is drawn. 

       (2) The amount
paid under subsection (1) of this section shall constitute a special fund to be
used toward the payment of warrants issued under ORS 287A.484 by the county
fiscal officer in payment of claims audited and approved and included in the
amount of any master warrant issued to the person advancing such moneys. [Formerly
287.486] 

   

       287A.488 Taxes
must be levied for payment of claims included in master warrant. No master warrant shall be issued
under ORS 287A.482 to 287A.488 unless taxes have been levied for the payment of
all claims included in the master warrant and such taxes are in the process of
being collected at the time of the issuance of the master warrant. [Formerly
287.488] 

   

 OREGON MUNICIPAL DEBT
ADVISORY COMMISSION 

   

       287A.630
Oregon Municipal Debt Advisory Commission; creation; term; compensation. (1) The Oregon Municipal Debt
Advisory Commission is hereby created, consisting of the following seven
members: 

       (a) The State
Treasurer or the State Treasurer’s designee. 

       (b) Three public
body finance officers appointed by the Governor: 

       (A) One of whom
is an individual recommended by the Association of Oregon Counties. 

       (B) One of whom
is an individual recommended by the League of Oregon Cities. 

       (C) One of whom
is an individual recommended by the Oregon School Boards Association. 

       (c) One
representative of special districts appointed by the Governor. 

       (d) Two public
members not represented in the other categories of appointment, appointed by
the Governor. 

       (2) The term of
office of an appointed member is four years, but appointed members serve at the
pleasure of the Governor. A member is eligible for reappointment for no more
than one additional term. 

       (3) Before the
expiration of the term of an appointed member, the Governor shall appoint a
successor to assume the duties of the member on July 1 next following. In case
of a vacancy for any cause, the Governor shall make an appointment to become
effective immediately for the unexpired term. 

       (4) The Governor
shall designate one of the appointed members to serve a one-year term as
chairperson, subject to reappointment. 

       (5) Appointed
members of the commission are entitled to compensation and expenses as provided
in ORS 292.495. [Formerly 287.030] 

   

       287A.632
Meetings; quorum; personnel. 
(1) The Oregon Municipal Debt Advisory Commission shall meet: 

       (a) At the call
of the chairperson; or 

       (b) At the
request of: 

       (A) A majority of
the members; 

       (B) The State
Treasurer; or 

       (C) The Governor. 

       (2) A majority of
all members of the advisory commission constitutes a quorum for the transaction
of business. 

       (3) The office of
the State Treasurer shall provide the commission with administrative and
clerical assistance required by the commission. [Formerly 287.032] 

   

       287A.634
Powers and duties of commission; rules; fees. (1) The Oregon Municipal Debt Advisory Commission
may: 

       (a) Provide
assistance and consultation, upon request of the state or a public body, to
assist them in the planning, preparation, marketing and sale of new bond issues
to reduce the cost of the issuance to the issuer and to assist in protecting
the issuer’s credit. 

       (b) Collect,
maintain and provide financial, economic and social data on public bodies
pertinent to their ability to issue and pay bonds. 

       (c) Collect,
maintain and provide information on bonds sold and outstanding and serve as a
clearinghouse for all local bond issues. 

       (d) Maintain
contact with municipal bond underwriters, credit rating agencies, investors and
others to improve the market for public body bond issues. 

       (e) Undertake or
commission studies on methods to reduce the costs of state and local bond
issues. 

       (f) Recommend
changes in state law and local practices to improve the sale and servicing of
local bonds. 

       (g) Perform any
other function required or authorized by law. 

       (h) Pursuant to
ORS chapter 183, adopt rules necessary to carry out its duties. 

       (2) The
commission shall publish: 

       (a) A periodic
newsletter describing proposed bond issues, bond sales, refundings, credit
rating changes and other information relating to municipal bonds that is
pertinent to issuers, underwriters, investors and the public. 

       (b) An annual
report describing and evaluating the operations of the commission during the
preceding year. 

       (3) The
commission may charge reasonable fees for providing services under subsection
(1) of this section. 

       (4) The
commission shall transfer the amounts received under this section to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the Miscellaneous Receipts Account in the General Fund
for the State Treasurer described in ORS 286A.016. The moneys deposited in the
account pursuant to this section are continuously appropriated to the State
Treasurer for payment of expenses of the State Treasurer in providing services
to the commission pursuant to ORS 287A.632. [Formerly 287.034] 

   

       287A.640
Notice to commission of proposed issues; duty of public bodies to assist;
rules. (1) The
Oregon Municipal Debt Advisory Commission may, by rule, require a public body
to provide the commission with prior notice of proposed issuance of new bonds
in a form and at times specified by the commission. 

       (2) To assist the
commission in carrying out its duties, a public body shall verify, at the
request of the commission, the information maintained by the commission or the
State Treasurer on the public body’s outstanding bonds. [Formerly 287.040] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
