 
 
 
 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 

 

 

 
 

 Oregon Revised Statutes 

 


 Chapter
391 — Mass Transportation 

   

 2025
EDITION 

   

   

 MASS TRANSPORTATION 

   

 HIGHWAYS, ROADS, BRIDGES AND
FERRIES 

   

 LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT 

   

 391.090     Legislative findings;
use of lottery moneys for light rail project; policy and intent 

   

 391.110     Legislative findings 

   

 391.120     Regional Light Rail
Extension Construction Fund; purpose; requirements for expenditures from fund;
reversion of unobligated balance 

   

 391.125     Regional Light Rail
Extension Bond Account; purpose 

   

 391.130     Allocation of lottery
moneys to Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund; authorized
expenditures; end of allocations upon certification by Director of
Transportation 

   

 391.140     Revenue bonds for
specified light rail project; amount; purpose; issuance by State Treasurer;
pledge of revenues 

   

 391.150     Joint management of
specified light rail project; contracting procedures 

   

 COLUMBIA RIVER LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT
COMPACT 

   

 391.301     Ratification of compact 

   

 391.306     Columbia River Light
Rail Transit Compact 

   

 391.311     Effect of compact on
powers and privileges of mass transit districts in Oregon and Washington 

   

 MASS TRANSPORTATION FINANCING
AUTHORITY 

   

 391.500     Declaration of policy;
construction of statutes 

   

 391.510     Definitions for ORS
391.500 to 391.660 

   

 391.520     Financing authority
created; membership 

   

 391.530     Meetings; quorum;
expenses 

   

 391.540     Bylaws; secretary’s
duties, power 

   

 391.550     Powers of Mass
Transportation Financing Authority 

   

 391.560     Lease terms for
facility financed by bonds 

   

 391.570     Bonds; form;
conditions; issuance; refunding 

   

 391.580     Pledges for bonds 

   

 391.590     Bonds not general
obligation of state 

   

 391.600     Tax exempt status of
income, property and bond interest 

   

 391.605     Limitations on transfer
to metropolitan service district 

   

 391.610     Expenses of authority;
borrowed funds 

   

 391.620     Limitation on transfer
of property rights 

   

 391.630     Investments of surplus
moneys 

   

 391.640     Investment in authority’s
bonds authorized 

   

 391.650     Severability of ORS
391.500 to 391.660 

   

 391.660     Short title 

   

 LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT 

   

       391.090 Legislative
findings; use of lottery moneys for light rail project; policy and intent. The Legislative Assembly finds
that: 

       (1) The
development, acquisition and construction of light rail systems and their
attendant rights of way, equipment and facilities in the urban and metropolitan
areas of the State of Oregon do and will accomplish the purpose of creating
jobs and furthering economic development in Oregon by, among other advantages: 

       (a) Providing an
important element of the public infrastructure that provides the basic
framework for continuing and expanding economic activity in this state; 

       (b) Increasing
the economy and efficiency of public transportation, improving the
attractiveness of urban and metropolitan areas to new businesses and supporting
the operations and prosperity of existing businesses in those areas by making
those businesses more accessible to their customers and employees; 

       (c) Alleviating
the inefficiencies of congestion and crowding associated with, and reducing the
burdens of expansion and maintenance of, existing public transportation systems
and facilities, as well as reducing energy consumption and air pollution fostered
by the use of motor vehicles; and 

       (d) Creating
employment opportunities in urban and metropolitan areas through the funding of
projects for the development and construction of the light rail systems. 

       (2) Additionally,
the provision of state and local moneys for the proposed Westside corridor
light rail project identified in ORS 391.120 (2)(a) will encourage the
contribution of otherwise unavailable federal matching grant moneys, the use of
which will, for the reasons stated in subsection (1) of this section, forward
the purpose of creating jobs and furthering economic development in Oregon. 

       (3) Based on the
legislative findings described in this section, the use of net proceeds from
the operation of the state lottery for the support of the Westside corridor
light rail project, as provided in ORS 391.130, is an appropriate use of state
lottery funds under section 4 (3), Article XV of the Oregon Constitution and
ORS 461.510. 

       (4) It is the
intent and policy of the Legislative Assembly to insure the funding and support
of the Westside corridor light rail project identified in ORS 391.120 (2)(a) in
the manner provided in ORS 391.130 to 391.150, to the extent required for the
state to realize the benefit of all federal matching funds made available for
that project, and to the extent necessary to complete the project. [1991 c.575 §1] 

   

       391.100 [1979 c.586 §1; 1981 c.262 §1;
repealed by 2012 c.107 §100] 

   

       391.110
Legislative findings. 
(1) The Legislative Assembly finds that economic growth and livability depend
on a solid transportation infrastructure to aid in the production and
distribution of goods and services and the efficient movement of people. 

       (2) The
Legislative Assembly also finds that an efficient surface transportation system
in our metropolitan areas must balance highways and arterial roads with mass
transit and light rail facilities. Mass transit and light rail improvements can
lessen the cost of highway expansion, reconstruction and maintenance by
significantly decreasing traffic flow. 

       (3) Therefore,
the Legislative Assembly shall establish the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund as a means of facilitating the development of a balanced
surface transportation system that includes the appropriate application of
highways, light rail and mass transit. [1989 c.868 §2] 

   

       391.120
Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund; purpose; requirements for
expenditures from fund; reversion of unobligated balance. (1) The Regional Light Rail
Extension Construction Fund, separate and distinct from the General Fund, is
established in the State Treasury. All moneys in the fund are appropriated
continuously to the Department of Transportation for the purposes specified in
this section. Interest received on moneys credited to the Regional Light Rail
Extension Construction Fund shall accrue to and become part of the Regional
Light Rail Extension Construction Fund. 

       (2) The
Department of Transportation may expend moneys in the Regional Light Rail
Extension Construction Fund to finance the preliminary engineering phase, final
design phase, advanced right of way acquisition phase or construction and
acquisition of equipment and facilities phase of projects for extensions to the
Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District’s light rail system, as
designated in the Regional Transportation Plan adopted by the metropolitan
service district in 1989, as amended from time to time. The Director of
Transportation may enter into written agreements with the Tri-County
Metropolitan Transportation District that commit the department to pay
anticipated funds from the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund to
the district for the purpose of financing such costs of extending the district’s
light rail system, including servicing any obligations entered into by the
district to finance the costs of extending the district’s light rail system,
which written agreements may provide for the remittance of such funds on such
periodic basis, in such amounts, over such period of years and with such
priority over other commitments of such funds as the director shall specify in
the commitment. Any such written agreements or commitments, when executed by
the director and accepted by the district, shall be solely conditioned upon
actual funds available in the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund
and shall be valid, binding and irrevocable in accordance with its terms,
subject only to the requirements of subsection (3) of this section. The
extensions to the light rail system for which projects may be authorized and
financed from the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund include: 

       (a) The Westside
corridor. 

       (b) The
Interstate 5 North corridor. 

       (c) The
Interstate 205 corridor. 

       (d) The Milwaukie
corridor. 

       (e) The Barbur
corridor. 

       (f) The Lake
Oswego corridor. 

       (g) Appropriate
branches to the Banfield corridor. 

       (h) Appropriate
branches to the corridors specified in paragraphs (a) to (f) of this
subsection. 

       (3)
Notwithstanding any written agreement entered into by the Director of
Transportation under subsection (2) of this section, no moneys shall be
expended from the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund for the
preliminary engineering phase, final design phase, advanced right of way
acquisition phase or construction and acquisition phase of projects unless the
Director of Transportation determines: 

       (a) That all
state and local approvals are in place for the phase of the specific project
for which funding is being sought; 

       (b) That
assurances are in place for obtaining all moneys, other than moneys for which
the determination is being made, necessary to enable completion of the phase of
the specific project for which funding is being sought and that the Tri-County
Metropolitan Transportation District has agreed to provide an amount of money
equal to that being provided by the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction
Fund for the phase of the specific project for which money is being sought; 

       (c) With respect
to the phase of the specific project for which funding is being sought, that
the body of local officials and state agency representatives designated by the
metropolitan service district which functions wholly or partially within the
Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District and known as the Joint Policy
Advisory Committee on Transportation has certified that the phase of the
specific project is a regional priority; and 

       (d) With respect
to construction phases of any project, the elements of the project that are
designated for state participation and an estimated total amount of the state’s
funding obligation. 

       (4) When the
actual expenditures for a phase of a specific light rail project fall short of
the estimated expenditures for the project, those moneys, other than federal
moneys, that are not required for that phase of the project shall remain in the
Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund for use in completing other
projects described in subsection (2) of this section. 

       (5) On or before
August 31 in each year, the Director of Transportation shall certify to the
Governor and the State Treasurer whether or not there existed, as of the end of
the immediately preceding fiscal year, an unobligated balance of moneys in the
Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund that was derived from the
moneys required to be transferred to the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund under ORS 391.130. If the Director of Transportation
certifies that there existed such an unobligated balance of moneys derived from
the moneys required to be transferred to the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund under ORS 391.130, an amount equal to the unobligated balance
as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year shall revert to the
Administrative Services Economic Development Fund created by ORS 461.540, and
the State Treasurer shall credit such amount to that fund on or before the
September 15 next following the date of the certification by the Director of
Transportation. 

       (6) The Director
of Transportation shall certify the unobligated balance of the Regional Light
Rail Extension Construction Fund, and that unobligated balance shall revert to
the Administrative Services Economic Development Fund created by ORS 461.540 if
the Director of Transportation determines that all projects referred to in
subsection (2) of this section have been completed and the projects have been
accepted by the Director of Transportation and all claims, suits and actions
arising out of the projects have been resolved. 

       (7) For purposes
of subsections (5) and (6) of this section, moneys in the Regional Light Rail
Extension Construction Fund derived from the moneys required to be transferred
to the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund under ORS 391.130 shall
be obligated to the extent such moneys are needed to fund the amounts committed
to be paid in the current or any future fiscal year under any written agreement
or commitment entered into by the Director of Transportation under subsection
(2) of this section or to pay any amounts owing under or with respect to any
revenue bonds issued under ORS 391.140. 

       (8) The
Department of Transportation may deduct from the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund the costs associated with administering the fund. [1989 c.868
§3; 1991 c.575 §6] 

   

       391.125
Regional Light Rail Extension Bond Account; purpose. (1) The Regional Light Rail
Extension Bond Account is created as a separate and distinct subaccount in the
Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund. In each fiscal year in which
any amounts of principal or interest are due and payable on any revenue bonds
issued under ORS 391.140, the Director of Transportation shall cause to be
transferred from the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund to the
Regional Light Rail Extension Bond Account an amount, which, when added to the
moneys on deposit in the account that are available to be used for such
purpose, shall be sufficient to pay when due all amounts of principal and
interest coming due on such bonds in that fiscal year. 

       (2) All moneys on
deposit from time to time in the Regional Light Rail Extension Bond Account,
together with all investment earnings thereon, shall be pledged and are
continuously appropriated to the payment of the bonds issued under ORS 391.140.
All investment earnings on moneys on deposit from time to time in the Regional
Light Rail Extension Bond Account shall be retained in that account and applied
to pay the principal of and interest on bonds issued under ORS 391.140. [1991
c.575 §3] 

   

       391.130
Allocation of lottery moneys to Regional Light Rail Extension Construction
Fund; authorized expenditures; end of allocations upon certification by
Director of Transportation. 
(1) In each fiscal year beginning with the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1991,
there is allocated, from the Administrative Services Economic Development Fund
created by ORS 461.540, the amount of $8 million. However, commencing with the
first fiscal year next following the fiscal year in which bonds are first
issued under ORS 391.140, there shall be allocated from such fund the amount of
$10 million in each fiscal year. In each fiscal year after bonds are first
issued, the Director of Transportation shall certify any funds allotted in
excess of amounts necessary to pay the annual debt service on the outstanding
bonds and to fund the amounts committed to be paid in the current or any future
fiscal year under any written agreement or commitment entered into by the
Director of Transportation pursuant to ORS 391.120 (2). The certified amount
shall immediately be returned to the Administrative Services Economic
Development Fund. All amounts allocated under this section shall be transferred
to the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund established by ORS
391.120. 

       (2) The annual
amounts required to be transferred to the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund under subsection (1) of this section, together with all
investment earnings on the amounts on deposit from time to time in the Regional
Light Rail Extension Construction Fund, are continuously appropriated only for
the purposes of: 

       (a) Funding the
Westside corridor extension of light rail referred to in ORS 391.120; and 

       (b) Paying the
principal and interest on revenue bonds issued under ORS 391.140. 

       (3) Except as
provided in subsection (4) of this section, and notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the annual allocation made by this section shall be satisfied
and credited as and when net proceeds from the operation of the state lottery
are received and before any other allocation, appropriation or disbursement of
the net proceeds from the operation of the state lottery is made in the
applicable fiscal year. 

       (4) For purposes
of this section, net proceeds from the operation of the state lottery in each
fiscal year include all revenues derived from the operation of the state
lottery in each fiscal year less: 

       (a) The revenues
used in that fiscal year for the payment of prizes and the expenses of the
state lottery as provided in Article XV, section 4 (4)(d), of the Oregon
Constitution, ORS 461.500 and 461.510 (3) and (4); and 

       (b) The revenues
required to be applied, distributed or allocated as provided in ORS 461.543. 

       (5) The transfer
of moneys to the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund authorized by
this section shall cease when the Director of Transportation certifies in
writing that transfers of moneys under this section are no longer necessary
because: 

       (a) Moneys in the
Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund are sufficient for the payment
of all amounts committed to be paid under all written agreements or commitments
entered into between the Director of Transportation and the Tri-County Metropolitan
Transportation District pursuant to ORS 391.120 with respect to the Westside
corridor extension of light rail referred to in ORS 391.120 (2)(a), and to pay
all amounts of principal of and interest on the outstanding revenue bonds
issued under ORS 391.140; and 

       (b) The Westside corridor
extension of light rail referred to in ORS 391.120 (2)(a) has been completed
and such project has been accepted by the Department of Transportation, and all
claims, suits and actions arising out of such project that could create a
liability payable out of the moneys in the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund have been resolved. 

       (6) The Director
of Transportation shall deliver a copy of such certification to the Governor
and the State Treasurer. Upon receipt of the director’s written certification
that transfer of moneys to the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund
under this section is no longer necessary, the State Treasurer shall thereafter
credit moneys received by the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund
under this section to the Administrative Services Economic Development Fund
created by ORS 461.540. [1991 c.575 §2; 1993 c.18 §92; 1997 c.249 §124; 2014
c.56 §2] 

   

       391.140
Revenue bonds for specified light rail project; amount; purpose; issuance by
State Treasurer; pledge of revenues. 
(1) In accordance with ORS chapter 286A, the State Treasurer, at the request of
the Director of Transportation, shall issue revenue bonds from time to time in
an aggregate amount not to exceed: 

       (a) The principal
sum of $115 million; 

       (b) The costs
incurred in connection with the issuance of the bonds and other administrative
expenses of the State Treasurer in connection with the issuance of the bonds;
and 

       (c) The amount of
any reserves determined to be necessary or advantageous in connection with the
revenue bonds. 

       (2) The Director
of Transportation shall submit to the State Treasurer from time to time written
requests to issue the revenue bonds in amounts sufficient to provide in a
timely fashion the moneys required to fund the obligations of the Department of
Transportation under any written agreements or commitments entered into under
ORS 391.120 (2) for the purpose of financing the state share of the costs of
the Westside corridor light rail project identified in ORS 391.120 (2)(a). 

       (3) Moneys
received from the issuance of revenue bonds, including any investment earnings
thereon, may be expended only for the purpose of financing the costs of
development, acquisition and construction of the Westside corridor light rail
project identified in ORS 391.120 (2)(a), and to pay the costs of issuing the
bonds and other administrative expenses of the State Treasurer in carrying out
the provisions of ORS 391.120 and this section, including the funding of any
reserves determined to be necessary or advantageous in connection with the
revenue bonds. 

       (4)
Notwithstanding ORS 286A.100, 286A.102 and 286A.120 or any other provision of
law, revenue bonds issued under this section, regardless of whether issued in
one or more issues, shall be secured equally and ratably by the pledge of
moneys described in this subsection and ORS 391.130. The bonds shall be secured
by a pledge of, and a lien on, and shall be secured and payable only from,
moneys on deposit from time to time in the Regional Light Rail Extension
Construction Fund established by ORS 391.120. The revenue bonds shall not be a
general obligation of this state, and shall not be secured by or payable from
any funds or assets of this state other than the moneys on deposit from time to
time in the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund. 

       (5) The moneys in
the Regional Light Rail Extension Bond Account shall be used and applied by the
Director of Transportation to pay when due the principal of and interest on any
revenue bonds issued under this section. 

       (6) The interest
on all revenue bonds issued under this section and on any refunding bonds
issued pursuant to ORS chapter 286A is exempt from personal income taxation
imposed by this state under ORS chapter 316. 

       (7) The proceeds
derived from the issuance and sale of the revenue bonds, including any proceeds
required to fund any reserves determined to be necessary or advantageous in
connection with the revenue bonds, shall be deposited in a special, segregated
subaccount of the Regional Light Rail Extension Construction Fund. The moneys
on deposit from time to time in the subaccount, including any investment
earnings thereon, shall be disbursed as needed for the purposes described in
subsection (3) of this section upon the written request of the Director of
Transportation. [1991 c.575 §4; 2007 c.783 §179] 

   

       391.150 Joint
management of specified light rail project; contracting procedures. (1) The Department of
Transportation and the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District shall
jointly manage the construction phases of the Westside corridor light rail
project. The final project management plans of the managing agencies shall provide
that the district shall manage and oversee construction of the light rail right
of way and facilities and that the department shall manage and oversee the
construction of highway improvements related to the extension of the light rail
system. The department and the district shall describe in a memorandum of
understanding or grant agreement the functions and responsibilities assigned to
each of the managing agencies and shall establish an organizational and
management system for the project under which significant actions during the
construction phase occur only with the knowledge of both of the managing
agencies. 

       (2) Subject to
ORS 279.835 to 279.855 and ORS chapters 279A, 279B and 279C and any applicable
prohibitions against preferences in contracts related to the construction phase
of the Westside corridor light rail project, the managing agencies shall
develop procedures that afford qualified businesses in Oregon the opportunity
to compete for project contracts to the maximum extent feasible and consistent
with federal laws and regulations governing Federal Transit Administration
grants. 

       (3) The managing
agencies shall seek the cooperation and assistance of contracting and
construction associations in this state when establishing the contracting
procedures for the Westside corridor light rail project. The managing agencies
shall also establish and implement programs to provide contracting and
construction businesses with information relating to the project. 

       (4) The managing
agencies, to the maximum extent feasible, shall encourage disadvantaged
business enterprises to bid for contracts and to otherwise participate in the
Westside corridor light rail project. [1991 c.575 §5; 1993 c.741 §65; 2003
c.794 §271] 

   

       391.160 [1995 s.s. c.3 §1; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.165 [1995 s.s. c.3 §2; 1997 c.249 §125;
repealed by 1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.170 [1995 s.s. c.3 §3; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.175 [1995 s.s. c.3 §8; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.180 [1995 s.s. c.3 §6; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.185 [1995 s.s. c.3 §4; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.190 [1995 s.s. c.3 §5; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.195 [1995 s.s. c.3 §13; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.200 [1995 s.s. c.3 §7; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.205 [1995 s.s. c.3 §9; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.210 [1995 s.s. c.3 §11; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.215 [1995 s.s. c.3 §11a; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.220 [1995 s.s. c.3 §12; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.225 [1995 s.s. c.3 §14; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.230 [1995 s.s. c.3 §15; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.235 [1995 s.s. c.3 §16b; repealed by
1997 c.800 §23] 

   

       391.300 [1995 s.s. c.3 §32; repealed by
1996 c.13 §4] 

   

 COLUMBIA RIVER LIGHT
RAIL TRANSIT COMPACT 

   

       391.301
Ratification of compact. 
The Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon hereby adopts and ratifies the
Columbia River Light Rail Transit Compact set forth in ORS 391.306, and the
provisions of the compact are hereby declared to be the law of this state upon
such compact becoming effective as provided in Article XXII of the compact. [1996
c.13 §1] 

   

       391.305 [1995 s.s. c.3 §33; repealed by
1996 c.13 §4] 

   

       391.306
Columbia River Light Rail Transit Compact. The provisions of the Columbia River Light Rail
Transit Compact are as follows: 

 ______________________________________________________________________________ 

   

 ARTICLE I 

 Columbia River Light
Rail 

 Transit Authority
Established 

       The States of
Oregon and Washington establish by way of this interstate compact an
independent, separate regional authority, which is an instrumentality of both
of the signatory parties hereto, known as Columbia River Light Rail Transit
Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”). The Authority shall be
a body corporate and politic, and shall have only those powers and duties
granted by this compact and such additional powers as may hereafter be
conferred upon the Authority by the acts of both signatories. 

 ARTICLE II 

 Definitions 

       As used in this
compact, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning: 

       (1) “C-TRAN”
means the Clark County Public Transportation Benefit Authority based in Clark
County, Washington, or any successor agency or authority. 

       (2) “Major feeder
system” means all bus or other transit services provided by C-TRAN or Tri-Met
that are or are planned to be connected with the South North light rail transit
line, to accommodate the transfer of passengers to or from the light rail line
and to transport light rail passengers between the light rail station and their
trip origin or trip destination. 

       (3) “Signatory”
or “signatory state” means the State of Oregon or the State of Washington. 

       (4) “South North
light rail transit line” means the light rail line directly connecting portions
of Clackamas County, Oregon, Portland, Oregon and Clark County, Washington as
may be extended from time to time, including any segment thereof, and also
including, without limitation, all light rail vehicles, rights-of-way,
trackage, electrification, stations, park-and-ride facilities, maintenance
facilities, tunnels, bridges and equipment, fixtures, buildings and structures
incidental to or required in connection with the performance of light rail
service between portions of Clackamas County, Oregon, Portland, Oregon and
Clark County, Washington. The South North light rail transit line shall include
a system that comprises any future light rail lines and transit facilities that
cross the jurisdictional lines of the signatory states. 

       (5) “Transit
facilities” means all real and personal property necessary or useful in
rendering transit service by means of rail, bus, water and any other mode of
travel including, without limitation, tracks, rights of way, bridges, tunnels,
subways, rolling stock for rail, motor vehicles, stations, terminals, areas for
parking and all equipment, fixtures, buildings and structures and services
incidental to or required in connection with the performance of transit
service. 

       (6) “Transit
service” means the transportation of persons and their packages and baggage by
C-TRAN, Tri-Met or the Authority by means of transit facilities. 

       (7) “Tri-Met”
means the Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District based in Portland,
Oregon, or any successor agency or authority. 

 ARTICLE III 

 Purpose and Functions 

       The purpose of
the Authority is: 

       (1) To generally
cause the South North light rail transit line to be designed, engineered,
financed, constructed and developed consistently with the applicable regional
transportation and land use plans and the locally preferred alternative
selected pursuant to regulations of the Federal Transit Administration or the
regulations of any successor federal agency or authority; 

       (2) To facilitate
the operation and maintenance of the South North light rail transit line; 

       (3) To coordinate
C-TRAN and Tri-Met activities to implement and operate the major feeder system
that serves the South North light rail transit line; 

       (4) To coordinate
C-TRAN and Tri-Met activities to implement and operate buses or other transit
facilities that serve bi-state trips; and 

       (5) To serve only
such other regional transit purposes and to perform such other regional transit
functions as the signatories may authorize. 

 ARTICLE IV 

 Powers 

       The Authority has
the power to: 

       (1) Sue and be
sued, plead and be impleaded in all actions, suits or proceedings, brought by
or against it. 

       (2) Adopt
suitable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this compact, the
Constitution and laws of the United States or the constitutions and laws of the
signatories. The Authority may adopt rules and regulations that: 

       (a) Govern its
activities; 

       (b) Add
specificity to its powers and duties; 

       (c) Interpret
legislation that is applicable to the Authority; and 

       (d) Resolve
inconsistencies resulting from the application of the laws and regulations of
both signatories. 

       (3) Acquire,
maintain, control, and convey easements, licenses, and other limited property
rights for the purpose of constructing the South North light rail transit line.
However, the Authority shall not have the power to own real property. 

       (4) Receive and
accept federal, state, regional or local payments, appropriations, grants,
gifts, loans, advances, credit enhancements, credit guarantees and other funds,
properties and services as may be transferred or made available to the
Authority by either signatory, any political subdivision or agency thereof, by
the United States, or by any agency thereof, or by any other public or private
corporation or individual. Any funds received by the Authority from any source
may be commingled and expended to carry out the purposes and functions of the
Authority without regard to any law of the signatories that requires
expenditure of appropriated funds within the fiscal period for which the
appropriation is made. 

       (5) Disburse
funds for its lawful activities and to make grants or loans to C-TRAN or
Tri-Met. 

       (6) Enter into
agreements with: 

       (a) C-TRAN or
Tri-Met to provide planning, engineering, design, administration, construction
management or other services needed for the development of the South North
light rail transit line; 

       (b) C-TRAN,
Tri-Met or, except with regard to matters specified in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, private entities for the construction of the South North light rail
transit line; 

       (c) C-TRAN,
Tri-Met or, except with regard to matters specified in paragraph (a) of this
subsection, private entities for the construction of bridges over or tunnels
under navigable streams and bodies of water to be owned individually or jointly
by the States of Oregon and Washington; 

       (d) C-TRAN or
Tri-Met for the management, operation, and maintenance of the South North light
rail transit line; 

       (e) C-TRAN or
Tri-Met providing for acquisition by C-TRAN, Tri-Met or other public entities
of the property rights needed for the South North light rail transit line and
related activities; 

       (f) C-TRAN,
Tri-Met or private entities to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire the
materials, equipment and vehicles needed for the construction and
implementation of the South North light rail transit line; and 

       (g) C-TRAN or
Tri-Met to implement the decisions of the Authority. 

       (7) Delegate any
of its powers and duties to any political subdivision or governmental agency. 

       (8) Resolve any
disputes between C-TRAN and Tri-Met over the operation of the South North light
rail transit line or the major feeder system. However, the Authority shall not
have the power to require from C-TRAN and Tri-Met capital improvements to the South
North light rail transit line or the major feeder system. 

       (9) To the extent
allowed by law, encourage, assist and facilitate public and private development
along the South North light rail transit line. 

       (10) Perform all
other necessary and incidental functions. 

       (11) Exercise
such additional powers as shall be conferred on it by Act of the federal
Congress or jointly by the signatories. 

 ARTICLE V 

 Board Membership 

       The Authority
shall be governed by a board of six directors consisting of three members of
the C-TRAN governing body and three members of the Tri-Met governing body.
Directors representing C-TRAN and Tri-Met shall be appointed by their
respective governing bodies. 

 ARTICLE VI 

 Terms of Office 

       Board members
shall serve terms of four years, unless terminated earlier by the governing
body of the appointing transit agency. 

 ARTICLE VII 

 Compensation of
Directors 

       The directors
shall serve without compensation. The directors may be reimbursed for the
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties pursuant to
adopted policies of the transit agency that appointed them. 

 ARTICLE VIII 

 Organization and
Procedure 

       The board of
directors of the Authority shall by rule provide for its own organization and
procedure. It shall biennially elect a chairperson from among its directors who
shall serve a term of two years subject to earlier removal by a vote of four
directors. Meetings of the board shall be held as frequently as the board deems
that the proper performance of its duties requires, and the board shall keep
minutes of its meetings. The board shall adopt rules and regulations governing
its meetings, minutes and transactions. 

 ARTICLE IX 

 Staff 

       The Authority
shall not have the power to hire administrative staff. Administrative staff
support shall be provided by C-TRAN and Tri-Met by intergovernmental agreement. 

 ARTICLE X 

 Quorum and Actions by
the Board 

       Four directors
shall constitute a quorum. No action by the board shall be effective unless
there is an affirmative vote of a majority of those present. 

 ARTICLE XI 

 Conflicts of Interest 

       (1) No director
shall: 

       (a) Be
financially interested, either directly or indirectly, in any contract, sale,
purchase, lease or transfer of real or personal property to which the board of
directors of the Authority is party; 

       (b) In connection
with services performed within the scope of official duties, solicit or accept
money or any other thing of value in addition to the expenses paid to the
director by the Authority; or 

       (c) Offer money
or any other thing of value for or in consideration of obtaining an
appointment, promotion or privilege in employment with the Authority. 

       (2) Any director
who willfully violates any provision of this section shall, in the discretion
of the board, forfeit the office of the director. Any contract or agreement
made in contravention of this section may be declared void by the board.
Nothing in this section shall be considered to abrogate or limit the
applicability of any federal or state law that may be violated by any action
proscribed by this section. 

 ARTICLE XII 

 Financial Plans and
Reports 

       The board of
directors of the authority shall make and publish, as necessary, financial
plans and detailed annual budgets for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the South North light rail transit line, including a Sources of
Funds plan. The board may also prepare, publish and distribute such other
public reports and informational materials as it may deem necessary or desirable. 

 ARTICLE XIII 

 Operation and
Maintenance Costs 

       (1) The Authority
shall annually determine the amount of the South North light rail transit line’s
operating and maintenance costs and the Authority’s administrative costs that
shall be contributed to the Authority by C-TRAN and Tri-Met. The amount to be
collected from C-TRAN and Tri-Met shall be based upon all relevant factors,
including but not limited to, ridership origination and destination and relative
usage of the South North light rail transit line. 

       (2) After
establishing the amount to be allocated to C-TRAN and Tri-Met, the Authority
shall levy an annual assessment on C-TRAN and Tri-Met for the purpose of
financing the management, administration, operation, maintenance, repair,
expansion, and related activities for facilities, equipment, systems or
improvements included in the South North light rail transit line. 

 ARTICLE XIV 

 Capital Contributions 

       (1) The Authority
shall enter into a financing plan agreement with C-TRAN, Tri-Met and any
private entities providing construction financing for the South North light
rail transit line or any segment thereof, which agreement shall establish a
financing plan for the construction phases of the South North light rail
transit line, including each segment thereof. The financing plan agreement
shall specify the obligations of each party to pay a portion of the
construction costs of the South North light rail transit line, including the
estimated total construction costs, the percentage share of each party of the
total construction costs, the estimated schedule for the payment of each party’s
percentage share and the planned source of funds from which each party intends
to fund its share of the total construction costs. The financing plan
agreement, among other matters, may: 

       (a) Separately
specify each party’s obligation for each segment of the South North light rail
transit line; 

       (b) Limit the
liability of C-TRAN and Tri-Met to particular funding sources identified in the
financing plan agreement; 

       (c) Make
provisions for any interim financing, credit enhancements or guarantees to be
provided by C-TRAN, Tri-Met or any other parties in order to supply the funds
needed to construct the South North light rail transit line in accordance with
the construction schedule established in the financing plan agreement; or 

       (d) Provide that
all or a portion of one party’s obligations shall be satisfied by making
payments to another party to the agreement in order to pay or reimburse the
construction or financing costs incurred by the payee. 

       (2) The financing
plan agreement shall provide that C-TRAN and Tri-Met shall each retain full
power and authority to pledge their respective sources of funds as security for
any bonds, notes or other obligations issued thereby, and for any credit
enhancements obtained in connection with any such bonds, notes or other
obligations, in order to provide interim or permanent financing for the
construction costs of the South North light rail transit line. The financing
plan agreement shall not in any way or to any extent create a pledge of or a
lien or encumbrance on any funds of C-TRAN or Tri-Met. 

       (3) C-TRAN and
Tri-Met singly or together shall enter into one or more Full Funding Grant
Agreements with the Federal Transit Administration, or its successor, to
establish the federal funding commitment for the South North light rail transit
line, or any segments thereof, and the terms and conditions for obtaining the
federal funds. The Authority shall cause the South North light rail transit
line, and each segment thereof, to be designed, engineered and constructed in a
manner consistent with the applicable Full Funding Grant Agreement, applicable
state laws and the terms and conditions of the financing plan agreement. 

       (4) The financing
plan agreement may be amended from time to time by the Authority, C-TRAN and
Tri-Met to the extent such parties determine any amendment is necessary or
beneficial. Any such amendment shall require the consent of any private entity
that is a party to the financing plan agreement only if and to the extent such
consent is required under the terms of the financing plan agreement. 

 ARTICLE XV 

 Indemnification 

       (1) C-TRAN shall
hold Tri-Met and the Authority harmless and indemnify Tri-Met and the Authority
for any and all liability, settlements, losses, costs, damages and expenses in
connection with any action, suit or claim resulting from C-TRAN’s negligent
errors, omissions or acts in carrying out the purposes of this compact. 

       (2) Tri-Met shall
hold C-TRAN and the Authority harmless and indemnify C-TRAN and the Authority
for any and all liability, settlements, losses, costs, damages and expenses in
connection with any action, suit or claim resulting from Tri-Met’s negligent
errors, omissions or acts in carrying out the purposes of this compact. 

       (3) The Authority
shall hold C-TRAN and Tri-Met harmless and indemnify C-TRAN and Tri-Met for any
and all liability, settlements, losses, costs, damages and expenses in
connection with any action, suit or claim resulting from the Authority’s
negligent errors, omissions or acts in carrying out the purposes of this
compact. 

 ARTICLE XVI 

 Fares 

       Fares will be
established and collected by C-TRAN and Tri-Met for trips originating within
their respective districts. Payment of those fares will be honored by the
Authority as payment for passage on the South North light rail transit line. 

 ARTICLE XVII 

 Insurance 

       The board of
directors of the Authority may self-insure or purchase insurance and pay the
premiums therefor against loss or damage, against liability for injury to
persons or property and against loss of revenue from any cause whatsoever. Such
insurance coverage shall be in such form and amount as the board may determine,
subject to the requirements of any agreement or other obligations of the
Authority. 

 ARTICLE XVIII 

 Tax Exemption 

       (1) It is hereby
declared that the creation of the Authority and the carrying out of the
purposes of the Authority is in all respects for the benefit of all people of
the signatory states. It is further declared that the Authority and the board
of directors are performing a public purpose and an essential government
function, including, without limitation, proprietary, governmental and other
functions, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this compact. Therefore,
the Authority and the board of directors shall not be required to pay taxes or
assessments upon any of the property under its jurisdiction, control,
possession or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and
maintenance of the South North light rail transit line or upon any revenues
therefrom. 

       (2) When C-TRAN
or Tri-Met, acting under an agreement with the Authority pursuant to Article IV
of this compact, possesses or controls property or conducts activities in the
operation and maintenance of the South North light rail transit line: 

       (a) C-TRAN and
Tri-Met shall remain subject to the tax laws of their respective states with
respect to such property located, or activities conducted, within their
respective states; 

       (b) C-TRAN shall
be subject to the tax laws of the State of Oregon with respect to such property
located, or activities conducted, in Oregon only to the extent Tri-Met would be
subject to those laws if Tri-Met rather than C-TRAN possessed or controlled the
property or conducted the activity; and 

       (c) Tri-Met shall
be subject to the tax laws of the State of Washington with respect to such
property located, or activities conducted, in Washington only to the extent
C-TRAN would be subject to those laws if C-TRAN rather than Tri-Met possessed
or controlled the property or conducted the activity. 

 ARTICLE XIX 

 Applicable Laws 

       The Authority
shall be both subject to and exempt from certain laws of the States of Oregon
and Washington as concurred in by the legislature of each state, respectively.
Where the laws of the States of Oregon and Washington are not made inapplicable
to the Authority by legislative action, the laws of the respective states will
continue to apply to activities occurring within each state’s geographical
boundaries. However, the following laws shall apply generally to the Authority
regardless of the state in which the activities governed by the laws occur. The
following laws shall govern exclusively the matters they address, and the
provisions of corresponding or analogous laws of either signatory shall have no
effect: 

       (1) Federal
Administrative Procedures Act (5 U.S.C. 500 et seq.), as amended from time to
time, or any successor legislation; 

       (2) Federal
Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 270a et seq.), as amended from time to time, or any
successor legislation; 

       (3) Federal
prevailing wage law (40 U.S.C. 276a et seq.), as amended from time to time, or
any successor legislation; 

       (4) Federal rules
on disadvantaged business enterprises (49 C.F.R. Part 23), as amended from time
to time, or any successor legislation; 

       (5) Federal
competitive bidding laws (41 U.S.C. 251 et seq.), as amended from time to time,
or any successor legislation; and 

       (6) ORS 30.260 to
30.300 (1993 Edition). 

 ARTICLE XX 

 Jurisdiction of Courts 

       (1) The United
States District Courts shall have original jurisdiction, concurrent with the
courts of Oregon and Washington, of all actions brought by or against the
Authority and shall enforce subpoenas issued under this Compact. Any such
action initiated in a state court shall be removable to the appropriate United
States District Court in the manner provided by the Act of June 25, 1948, as
amended (28 U.S.C. 1446). 

       (2) All laws or
parts of laws of the United States and of the signatory states that are
inconsistent with the provisions of this compact are hereby amended for the
purpose of this compact to the extent necessary to eliminate such
inconsistencies and to carry out the provisions of this compact. 

 ARTICLE XXI 

 Severability 

       If any provision
of this compact, or its application to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, all other provisions of this compact, and the application of all of
its provisions to all other persons and circumstances, shall remain valid and to
this end, the provisions of this compact are severable. 

 ARTICLE XXII 

 Effective Date 

       This compact
shall take effect, and the board of the Authority may exercise its authority
pursuant to the compact when it has been ratified by the federal Congress and
adopted by both signatories, and the six directors of the board have been
appointed. The effective date of this compact shall be the date of the
establishment of the board of directors of the Authority. 

 ______________________________________________________________________________
[1996 c.13 §2] 

   

       391.310 [1995 s.s. c.3 §34; repealed by
1996 c.13 §4] 

   

       391.311 Effect
of compact on powers and privileges of mass transit districts in Oregon and
Washington. (1) A
mass transit district established under ORS 267.010 to 267.394, when operating
under the authority or direction of the Columbia River Light Rail Transit
Authority established under the Columbia River Light Rail Transit Compact
ratified by ORS 391.301, retains all the rights, powers, privileges and
immunities conferred upon the district by ORS 267.010 to 267.394 to the extent
that those rights, powers, privileges and immunities are consistent with the
provisions of the Columbia River Light Rail Transit Compact. 

       (2) A mass
transit agency organized under the laws of the State of Washington, when
operating in Oregon under the authority or direction of the Columbia River
Light Rail Transit Authority established under the Columbia River Light Rail
Transit Compact ratified by ORS 391.301, may exercise all of the rights,
powers, privileges and immunities conferred upon a mass transit district by ORS
267.010 to 267.394 to the extent that those rights, powers, privileges and
immunities are consistent with the provisions of the Columbia River Light Rail
Transit Compact. [1996 c.13 §3] 

   

 MASS TRANSPORTATION 

 FINANCING AUTHORITY 

   

       391.500
Declaration of policy; construction of statutes. (1) The Legislative Assembly of
the State of Oregon finds and declares that: 

       (a) It is in the
public interest to provide methods of financing the costs of mass transit
facilities; and 

       (b) The method of
financing provided in ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 is in the public
interest and serves a public purpose. 

       (2) The purpose
of ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 is to create an authority to provide
financial assistance to mass transit districts. 

       (3) ORS 267.227
and 391.500 to 391.660 shall be liberally construed. [1977 c.662 §2] 

   

       391.510
Definitions for ORS 391.500 to 391.660. As used in ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660, unless
the context otherwise requires: 

       (1) “Acquire” or “acquisition”
means the acquisition, by purchase, lease, gift, grant, devise, construction,
installation, reconstruction, repair and alteration, and the equipment,
improvement and extension of mass transit facilities. 

       (2) “Authority”
means the Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority created by ORS 267.227
and 391.500 to 391.660. 

       (3) “Board” means
the members of the authority created in ORS 391.520. 

       (4) “District”
means a mass transit district established under ORS 267.010 to 267.394. 

       (5) “Finance” or “financing”
means the issuance of revenue bonds pursuant to ORS 391.570 by the authority
for the purpose of providing financial assistance to districts. 

       (6) “Financial
assistance” means the providing of methods of financing of costs of mass
transit facilities under ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660. 

       (7) “Mass transit
facility” or “facilities” means any or all property constituting a mass transit
system, or any portion thereof, in any manner owned, used, leased or operated
by a district and which is located wherever a district is authorized to
operate. [1977 c.662 §3] 

   

       391.520
Financing authority created; membership. The Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority is
hereby created as a public instrumentality of the State of Oregon and the
exercise by the authority of the powers conferred by ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to
391.660 is the performance of an essential public function. The authority shall
consist of the chairperson of the Oregon Transportation Commission, the State
Treasurer, or designee, the chairperson of the Oregon Investment Council, or
designee, and a representative designated by the board of directors of each
district. [1977 c.662 §4] 

   

       391.530
Meetings; quorum; expenses. 
The members shall select a chairperson from among themselves and may select
such other officers as they consider necessary. Any member may call a meeting
of the board. A majority of the members of the Oregon Mass Transportation
Financing Authority shall constitute a quorum for all purposes. Members of the
authority shall receive no compensation for services but shall be entitled to
the necessary expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties. [1977 c.662 §5] 

   

       391.540
Bylaws; secretary’s duties, power. 
The Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority may adopt and amend
appropriate bylaws for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of its
business and may elect a secretary who need not be a member. The secretary
shall perform such duties as the board shall designate and may give
certificates under the official seal of the authority, and all persons dealing
with the authority may rely on such certificates. [1977 c.662 §6] 

   

       391.550 Powers
of Mass Transportation Financing Authority. The Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority
shall have the following powers together with all powers incidental thereto or
necessary for the performance thereof: 

       (1) To have
perpetual succession as a public instrumentality of the State of Oregon; 

       (2) To sue and be
sued and to prosecute and defend, at law or in equity, in any court having
jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the parties; 

       (3) To have and
to use a corporate seal and to alter the same at pleasure; 

       (4) To maintain
an office at such place or places as it may designate; 

       (5) To acquire,
own, finance, lease and dispose of any mass transit facility and to enter into
contracts for any and all of such purposes; provided, that title to or in any
mass transit facility so financed may in the discretion of the authority remain
in a district and provided, further, that the district shall not itself operate
any mass transit facility, except as lessor; 

       (6) To lease or
sell to a district any or all of the mass transit facilities upon such terms
and conditions as the board shall deem proper, and to charge and collect rent
or other payments therefor and to terminate any such lease or sales agreement
upon the failure of the district to comply with any of the obligations thereof;
and to include in any such lease, if desired, provisions that the district
shall have options to renew the term of the lease for such period or periods
and at such rent as shall be determined by the board or to purchase any or all
of the mass transit facilities for a nominal amount or otherwise or that at or
prior to the payment of all of the indebtedness incurred by the authority for
the financing of such mass transit facilities the authority may convey any or
all of the mass transit facilities to the district with or without
consideration; 

       (7) By resolution
of a majority of the members of the authority, to issue bonds in the aggregate
principal sum of not to exceed $250 million par value for any of its corporate
purposes and to refund the same, subject to the provisions of ORS 267.227 and 391.500
to 391.660; 

       (8) To employ or
to contract with other state or municipal agencies for such employees and
agents as may be necessary in its judgment; 

       (9) To receive
and accept from any public agency loans or grants for aid in the acquisition of
any mass transit facility and any portion thereof, and to receive and accept
grants, gifts or other contributions from any source; 

       (10) To refund
outstanding obligations incurred by any district including obligations
incurred, undertaken or completed prior to or after October 4, 1977; 

       (11) To receive
and to pledge as security for the payment of any bonds issued under ORS 267.227
and 391.500 to 391.660, any lease, purchase agreement, note, bond or other
obligation by or on behalf of any district; 

       (12) To make
loans to any district for the purpose of providing financial assistance to such
district in accordance with an agreement between the authority and such
district; and 

       (13) To do all
things necessary and convenient to carry out the purpose of ORS 267.227 and
391.500 to 391.660. [1977 c.662 §7; 1983 c.306 §1] 

   

       391.560 Lease
terms for facility financed by bonds. 
Any lease of a mass transit facility entered into pursuant to the provisions of
ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 shall be for a term not shorter than the
longest maturity of any bonds issued to finance such mass transit facility or a
portion thereof and shall provide for income, revenues and rentals from all
sources pledged to the payment of such bonds adequate to pay the principal,
interest and premiums, if any, on such bonds as the same fall due and to create
and maintain such reserves and accounts for depreciation, if any, as the board
in its discretion shall determine to be necessary. [1977 c.662 §8] 

   

       391.570 Bonds;
form; conditions; issuance; refunding. 
(1) Bonds may be issued as serial bonds or as term bonds or a combination of
both types. The board may provide that such bonds: 

       (a) May be
executed and delivered by the Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority at
any time and from time to time in such amounts including all necessary and
incidental expenses, together with all necessary initial bond and interest
reserves and applicable interest during the period of acquisition; 

       (b) May be in
such form and denominations and of such terms and maturities; 

       (c) May be in
fully registered form or in bearer form registerable either as to principal or
interest or both; 

       (d) May bear such
conversion privileges and be payable in such installments and at such time or
times not exceeding 40 years from the date thereof; 

       (e) May be
payable at such time or times and at such place or places whether within or
without the State of Oregon and evidenced in such manner; 

       (f) May be made
optional for redemption prior to maturity at such price or prices and on such
terms and conditions; 

       (g) May be
executed by the manual or facsimile signatures of such officers of the
authority; and 

       (h) May contain
such other provisions not inconsistent with ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660. 

       (2) Any bonds of
the authority may be sold for such price and in such manner and from time to
time as may be determined by the board. The board shall publish notice of its
intent to sell bonds, at least once, at least two days prior to the date of
sale, in a newspaper of general circulation in each district which is to
receive financial assistance from the proceeds of the bonds. The notice shall
state the general purposes for which the bonds are to be sold. Issuance by the
authority of one or more series of bonds for one or more purposes shall not
preclude it from issuing other bonds in connection with the same mass transit
facility or any other mass transit facility or for any other purpose, but the
proceedings where any subsequent bonds may be issued shall recognize and
protect any prior pledge made for any prior issue of bonds. Refunding bonds may
be issued whether the bonds to be refunded are then subject to redemption or
are thereafter subject to redemption or maturity, and regardless of the purpose
for which the bonds to be refunded were issued by the authority. All such bonds
and the interest coupons applicable thereto, if any, are made and shall be
construed to be negotiable instruments. [1977 c.662 §9] 

   

       391.580
Pledges for bonds. 
The principal, interest and premiums, if any, on any bonds issued by the Oregon
Mass Transportation Financing Authority shall be secured solely by a pledge of
the income, revenues and receipts out of which the same shall be made payable
and may also be secured by and payable out of proceeds from the sale of the
mass transit facility acquired or financed by the proceeds of such bonds. In
addition, the district which is to lease or purchase the mass transit
facilities financed out of the proceeds of any bonds issued by the authority
may, by resolution of the district board, pledge all or any part of the
revenues of the district derived from any taxes which the district is
authorized to levy as security for the payment of the principal, interest and
premiums, if any, on the bonds issued by the authority to finance such mass
transit facilities. In the resolution of the district board pledging all or any
part of its tax revenues as security for any bonds issued by the authority, the
district may reserve the right to pledge from time to time on a parity basis
all or any part of its tax revenues as security for any one or more series of
bonds issued thereafter by the authority or the district, and in the event the
right so reserved by the district is exercised all bonds secured by a pledge of
such tax revenues shall be equally and ratably secured by such tax revenues
without preference or priority of any kind of any bond or series of bonds
secured thereby over any other bond or series of bonds secured thereby. A pledge
of tax revenues by a district as a security for the payment of any bonds issued
by the authority shall not be considered to be the incurring of bonded
indebtedness by the district. Any pledge made pursuant to this section shall be
valid and binding from and after the date of issuance of the bonds secured
thereby and the income, revenues, receipts or taxes pledged shall be
immediately subject to the lien of such pledge without the physical delivery
thereof, the filing of any notice or any further act. The lien of any such
pledge shall be valid and binding against all persons having claims of any kind
against the pledgor whether in tort, contract or otherwise, irrespective of
whether such persons have notice thereof. The resolution under which the bonds
are authorized to be issued and any indenture executed as security for the
bonds, may contain any agreements and provisions with respect to the
maintenance of the properties covered thereby, the fixing and collection of
rents for any portions leased by the authority to a district, the pledge of the
agreement of the district to make such payments as shall be necessary to pay
principal, interest and premiums, if any, on the bonds, the creation and
maintenance of special funds from such revenues, and the rights and remedies
available in the event of default, designation of a trustee, and any other
provision the board shall deem advisable. Each pledge and agreement made for
the benefit or security of any of the bonds of the authority shall continue
effective until the principal, interest and premiums, if any, on the bonds for
the benefit of which the same were made shall have been fully paid or provision
for such payment duly made. [1977 c.662 §10; 1985 c.655 §1] 

   

       391.590 Bonds
not general obligation of state. 
All bonds issued by the Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority under
the provisions of ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 shall not constitute a
debt, liability or general obligation of this state, or a pledge of the faith
and credit of this state, but shall be payable solely from the income revenues,
receipts or assets pledged for their payment. Each bond issued shall contain on
the face a statement that the State of Oregon or the authority shall not be
obligated to pay the same nor the interest thereon except from the income
revenues, receipts or assets pledged therefor, and that neither the general
obligation, full faith and credit nor the taxing power of this state is pledged
to the payment of the principal of or the interest on such bond. [1977 c.662 §11] 

   

       391.600 Tax
exempt status of income, property and bond interest. (1) The income and, to the extent
permitted by the Constitution, the property of the Oregon Mass Transportation
Financing Authority shall be exempt from all taxation in the State of Oregon.
For purposes of the Oregon Securities Law, bonds issued by the authority shall
be deemed to be securities issued by an instrumentality or a political
subdivision of the State of Oregon. 

       (2) Interest
payable on bonds of the authority shall be exempt from taxes imposed on income
by the State of Oregon. [1977 c.662 §12] 

   

       391.605
Limitations on transfer to metropolitan service district. (1) No transfer authorized by ORS
267.020 of a mass transit district system to a metropolitan service district
shall take effect while bonds issued by the Oregon Mass Transportation
Financing Authority to finance mass transit facilities for the district are
outstanding until a plan designed to repay any outstanding bonds when due is
prepared by the governing body of the metropolitan service district and
approved by: 

       (a) The
chairperson of the Oregon Transportation Commission or the chairperson’s
designee; 

       (b) The State
Treasurer or State Treasurer’s designee; and 

       (c) The
chairperson of the Oregon Investment Council or the chairperson’s designee. 

       (2) Persons given
authority to approve a transfer under subsection (1) of this section may only
refuse to approve a transfer for reasons relating to the financial effect of
the transfer. [1983 c.306 §3] 

   

       391.610
Expenses of authority; borrowed funds. 
All expenses of the Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority incurred in
carrying out the provisions of ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 shall be
payable solely from funds provided under the authority of ORS 267.227 and
391.500 to 391.660. For the purposes of meeting the necessary expenses of
initial organization and operation until such date as the authority derives
moneys from funds provided hereunder, the authority shall be empowered to
borrow moneys from districts, and districts are empowered to lend money to the
authority as may be required and agreed for such necessary expenses of
organization and operation. Expenses incurred by the authority in connection
with any application by a district for financial assistance under ORS 267.227
and 391.500 to 391.660 may be paid from the proceeds of bonds issued by the
authority. [1977 c.662 §13; 2007 c.531 §18] 

   

       391.620
Limitation on transfer of property rights. The Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority
shall not convey its right, title and interest in mass transit facilities to
any district, prior to the time the bonds secured thereby are fully paid,
unless the authority has determined that adequate provision has been made for
the payment of principal, interest and premiums, if any, on the bonds as they
become due. [1977 c.662 §14] 

   

       391.630
Investments of surplus moneys. 
The Oregon Mass Transportation Financing Authority may invest any surplus
moneys in investments permitted by ORS 294.035. [1977 c.662 §15] 

   

       391.640
Investment in authority’s bonds authorized. The state and all counties, cities and other
municipal corporations, all banking institutions and building and loan
associations, savings and loan associations, investment companies, insurance
companies and associations, and all personal representatives, guardians,
trustees and other fiduciaries may legally invest any sinking funds, moneys or
other funds belonging to them or within their control in any bonds issued
pursuant to ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660. [1977 c.662 §16] 

   

       391.650
Severability of ORS 391.500 to 391.660. If any one or more sections or provisions of ORS
267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, shall ever be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, the remaining provisions of ORS 267.227 and 391.500 to 391.660 and the
application thereof to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is
held to be invalid, shall not be affected thereby, it being the intention of
this Legislative Assembly to enact the remaining provisions of ORS 267.227 and
391.500 to 391.660 notwithstanding such invalidity. [1977 c.662 §19] 

   

       391.660 Short
title. ORS 267.227
and 391.500 to 391.660 may be referred to and cited as the “Oregon Mass
Transportation Financing Act.” [1977 c.662 §1] 

   

       391.800 [1985 c.816 §9; 1987 c.62 §1; 1989
c.224 §66; 2003 c.601 §2; 2003 c.751 §3; repealed by 2020 s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

       391.802 [2003 c.751 §2; repealed by 2020
s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

       391.810 [1985 c.816 §10; 1989 c.224 §67;
1989 c.866 §8; 2003 c.613 §1a; 2003 c.751 §4; repealed by 2020 s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

       391.815 [1989 c.866 §10; 2003 c.751 §5;
2007 c.70 §154; repealed by 2020 s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

       391.820 [1985 c.816 §11; 1987 c.532 §1;
1989 c.224 §68; 2003 c.751 §6; 2007 c.70 §155; repealed by 2020 s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

       391.830 [1985 c.816 §12; 1989 c.224 §69;
1989 c.866 §11; 2003 c.613 §2; 2003 c.751 §7; 2007 c.70 §156; repealed by 2020
s.s.1 c.15 §1] 

   

 CHAPTERS
392 TO 395 

  [Reserved
for expansion] 

 _______________ 

   

 

 

 
