                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Case Closure
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:    Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                             Revision/Review:
 E: Case Closure – 1.0                     I-E-1.0 (06/22) 06/22/2026
                                                                          None
                                           I-E-1.0 (01/20)
                                           I-E-1.0 (11/11)
                                           I-E-1.0 (01/07)
 Related             ORS 419C.481 (Guardianship and legal custody of youth
 Standards            committed to Oregon Youth Authority)
 and                 ORS 420.045 (Parole; discharge; revocation of parole)
 References:         ORS 163A.030 (Hearing on issue of reporting by sex offender
                      adjudicated in juvenile court; right to counsel)
                     OYA policy: I-E-2.5 Crime Victim Notification and Communications
                      III-D-3.4 Suicide Prevention in Community Placements
                     JJIS policy: Inter-Jurisdiction Transitional Points
                     JJIS form: Sex Offense Registration Hearing Report
                     OYA form: YA 3500 Order Consenting to Final Discharge
                      YA 3501 Maximum Commitment Final Discharge Report
 Related             COM III-E-1.0 Case Closure
 Procedures:         COM I-E-2.5 Victim Notification of Youth Status
                     COM III-D-3.4 Youth Death Postvention Plan
                     Process Checklist: Youth Death Postvention
 Policy Owner:                             Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                   _________________________
                                            Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy defines the process by which an OYA youth case is closed and OYA
       custody is terminated.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): An electronic information system
       developed and maintained by the state through the Oregon Youth Authority
       (OYA) and administered in partnership with county juvenile departments.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive

Page 1 of 4                  III-E-1.0 Case Closure                      Effective: 06/22/2026
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, we play a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Staff must be aware of and actively mitigate any potential bias
       when determining when to request termination of a youth’s commitment to OYA.

       OYA follows an orderly process of case management which includes
       systematically closing a youth’s case. The juvenile parole/probation officer
       (JPPO), in review with the youth and field supervisor, will determine when a
       youth is eligible for termination of OYA custody and must proceed according to
       the below general standards.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Termination of OYA custody

              The reason for requesting termination may include:

              1.     The youth’s maximum allowable commitment time is approaching;

              2.     OYA programs and services are no longer benefiting the youth;

              3.     The youth has fulfilled court-ordered conditions;

              4.     The youth has met or made significant progress toward meeting the
                     case plan goals;

              5.     The youth’s age; or

              6.     The youth has died while in OYA legal custody.

       B.     A request for termination must be made by OYA staff to the committing
              court. The request may include:

              1.     A written report that outlines a youth’s progress, including a listing
                     of programs and treatment that have been completed; the youth’s
                     adjustment to community placement; and future planning for the
                     youth;

              2.     The status of any unpaid court-ordered restitution;

              3.     A YA 3501 (Maximum Commitment Final Discharge Report);

              4.     A review hearing; and

              5.     A copy of the youth’s court order.

       C.     For any youth adjudicated on a felony sex crime, the JPPO must notify the
              youth and the court when termination of juvenile court jurisdiction and
              case closure is likely to occur within six months. The JPPO must:


Page 2 of 4                 III-E-1.0 Case Closure                       Effective: 06/22/2026
              1.    Complete a Sex Offense Registration Hearing Report; and

              2.    Follow local protocols in submitting necessary documents to the
                    court for the hearing.

       D.     The JPPO must submit the request to the appropriate field supervisor for
              approval.

       E.     After the field supervisor’s approval is granted, the JPPO must submit the
              request to the committing court for final decision.

              1.    Local process for submitting requests may vary, as directed by the
                    court.

              2.    Staff must be aware of and follow the local court process.

       F.     A copy of the request must be sent to the appropriate county juvenile
              department.

       G.     The JPPO must ensure OYA policy I-E-2.5 Crime Victim Notification and
              Communications is followed when a victim requests notification.

       H.     After the termination is approved by the court and OYA receives a signed
              court order, OYA staff must -

              1.    Send a copy of the court order to the youth, and parent/guardian if
                    the youth is under the age of 18;

              2.    Close the youth’s case plan in JJIS;

              3.    Confirm and update the youth’s address and phone number in JJIS;

              4.    Enter the termination of commitment and close the youth’s case in
                    JJIS if there are no other active referrals; and

              5.    Follow JJIS policy Inter-jurisdiction Transition Points and specific
                    JJIS procedures.

       I.     Case closure after a youth death

              1.    If a youth dies while in OYA legal custody, the field supervisor or
                    designee must update the youth’s status in JJIS within 24 hours
                    using the “deceased” indicator button and date on the “Youth Info”
                    page.

              2.    The JPPO must notify the committing court and submit
                    documentation required by the court, in accordance with local court
                    procedures.

                    Termination of OYA legal custody occurs upon court action.



Page 3 of 4                III-E-1.0 Case Closure                     Effective: 06/22/2026
              3.     After termination of jurisdiction is approved by the court and OYA
                     receives the signed court order, the JPPO must complete all
                     required case updates in JJIS and notify field support staff.

              4.     Field support staff must close the JJIS record and complete
                     required archiving activities in accordance with agency procedure.

              5.     OYA staff must follow the activities listed in the Youth Death
                     Postvention Procedure and Postvention Checklist.

V.     OYA GENERAL PROCEDURE REQUIRED: YES

       The general Community Services procedure addresses the following areas:

       A.     Processing a request for termination; and

       B.     Closure of the case file and JJIS.

VI.    LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

       Each field office must have a local protocol that complies with local court
       processes for submitting requests for termination.




Page 4 of 4                 III-E-1.0 Case Closure                     Effective: 06/22/2026
