                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                  Revision:
 A: General Administration: 11.0          II-E-1.8 (12/04)      07/30/2012
                                                                                  10/02/2019
                                                                                  (deleted references
                                                                                  to ARB)
                                                                                  Review:
                                                                                  10/02/2023
 Related             ORS 419C.486 (Consideration of recommendations of committing court;
 Standards             case planning)
 and                 ORS 420A.125 (Youth offender; intake assessments; reformation plan;
 References:           placement)
                     ORS 182.515–182.525 (Evidence-based programs)
                     Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and Detention
                       Facilities; Programming
                     American Correctional Association; Standards for Juvenile Correctional
                      Facilities; 4-JCF-5C-03 (Assessments); 4-JCF-5C-04 (Social Services
                      Staffing); 4-JCF-5C-05 (Case Planning); 4-JCF-5C-06 (Treatment
                      Team); 4-JCF-5C-07 (Individual Contacts)
                     American Correctional Association; Standards for Juvenile Probation
                      and Aftercare Services; 2-7134, 35, 37, 38 (Supervision)
                     OYA Multidisciplinary Team Standards
                     OYA Case Documentation Standards
                     OYA Risk/Needs Assessment Resource Manual
                     Attachment A: OYA Youth Assessment, MDT, and Case Planning
                      Timeline
                     OYA policy: II-D-2.2 (Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody
                      Facilities)
                      II-D-1.0 (Facility Health Services)
                      II-E-3.0 (Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committee)
                      II-E-6.0 (Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in Facilities)
                      II-E-5.0 (Youth Assessment for Risk of Sexually Reoffending - Facility)
                      III-B-2.0 (New Commitments to OYA Legal Custody)
                      III-C-3.0 (Youth Assessment for Risk of Sexually Reoffending -
                      Community)
                      III-C-3.1 (Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and
                      Treatment in Community Settings)
                     OYA forms: YA 3001 (Juvenile Parole Agreement)
                      YA 3002-J (Case Plan Report – MDT Field)
                      YA 3003-J (Transition Case Plan)
                      YA 3004-J (Referral Case Plan)
                      YA 3005-J (Case Plan History)
                      YA 3006-J (Short-Term Goal History)
                      YA 3007-J (Short Term Goal List)
                      YA 3008-J (Court Report – Full Report)
                      YA 3009-J (Court Report)

Page 1 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                       YA 3010-J (Report to Court – Plan Progress)
                       YA 3013-J (Case Plan Summary)
                       YA 4097-J (Case Plan Report - MDT Facility)
                                   YA 4101-J (Case Plan Report MDT Facility – DOC Youth)
                                   YA 4102-J (DOC Quarterly Review Report)
                                   YA 4104-J (DOC Transfer or Release)
                                   YA 4408 (Initial Health Screening)
                                   YA 4409 (Initial Mental Status Assessment)
                                   OYA Risk/Needs Assessment
                                   YA 1814 (MDT Team Process Guide)
                                   YA 1815 (MDT Observation Form)
                                   YA 1816 (Family Communication Questionnaire [Facility])
 Related             FAC I-A-11.0 Family Communication Questionnaire (Facility)
 Procedures:

 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Development Services Assistant
 Director                                 ________________________
                                          Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides OYA staff standards to assess a youth’s risks and needs for
       individual case plan development. Guidelines for case planning, MDT meetings,
       and quality assurance are also addressed.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Case Plan: A case plan is a formal plan with prescribed interventions and
       documentation requirements and is a tool to assist staff in managing cases,
       setting goals and reviewing youth’ interventions and progress. A case plan
       constitutes and fulfills the requirements of the Reformation Plan as defined in
       ORS 420A.005, 420A.125 and 420A.010 and is created and maintained in the
       statewide Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS).

       Intake Review Committee (IRC): An agency committee that reviews all youth
       who are admitted for intake into a youth correction facility (excluding Oak Creek
       YCF) from the community to determine the youth’s initial facility placement. The
       committee voting members are the Facility Services chief of operations and the
       Community Services chief of parole/probation operations.

       Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): The Juvenile Justice Information
       System (JJIS) is a statewide-integrated electronic information system designed,
       developed, and implemented to support a continuum of services and shared
       responsibility among all members of the juvenile justice community. In a
       collaborative partnership between the Oregon Youth Authority (OYA) and
       Oregon's county juvenile departments, JJIS is administered by the State of
       Oregon through OYA.

       Multidisciplinary Team (MDT): A team of individuals who work collaboratively to
       develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan that is culturally

Page 2 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
       competent and gender-appropriate for each youth committed to the Oregon
       Youth Authority (OYA). The MDT is based on a core team membership
       consisting of the youth, OYA primary case manager, placement representative,
       QMHP (facility)/treatment provider (community), tribal representative (for youth
       enrolled in one of Oregon’s federally recognized tribes) and the
       parents/guardians. Additional team members are identified by the core team
       based on the youth’s Risk Needs Assessment, identified criminogenic needs and
       placement.

       Youth: A person in the legal and physical custody of OYA, either in an OYA
       facility or placed in the community under supervision; or a person in the legal
       custody of the Department of Corrections and the physical custody of OYA in an
       OYA facility.

       OYA Primary Case Manager: OYA Juvenile Parole/Probation Officers (JPPO)
       are primary case managers for all juvenile commitments. OYA case coordinators
       are primary case managers for Department of Corrections (DOC) commitments.

       OYA (Risk/Needs Assessment) RNA: A comprehensive assessment
       instrument that:
        Identifies static and dynamic areas of risk, need and protective factors in
           known criminogenic risk areas for youth;
        Focuses on youth’ needs for change such as antisocial attitudes, antisocial
           friends, substance abuse, lack of problem-solving skills, impulsive behavior,
           academic failures;
        Assists in individualized case planning in identified domains (i.e. offense
           specific, family, mental health, substance use, education, vocation, life/social
           skills, and medical);
        Assists in determination of service, program, placement, and transition needs
           for all OYA youth;
        Assists in determining which competencies are needed to reduce risk; and
        Assists in demonstrating youth progress through competency ratings and
           achieving positive youth outcomes.

       Placement Representative: If a youth is placed outside of their home, a
       representative from such placement will attend MDT meetings. Depending on
       where the youth is placed, these representatives are generally close-custody
       facility living unit managers (or designees), camp directors (or designees),
       residential treatment providers and counselors, foster parents, or foster care
       certifiers.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA’s fundamental goal is to protect the public by ensuring youth accountability,
       promoting change, developing and improving skills, and reducing the likelihood
       that youth will commit future crimes. The case planning process and case plan
       are intended to assist in achieving this goal.

       The identification of areas of risk and need is foundational to case plan
       development. OYA conducts various assessments, including a risk-needs

Page 3 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
       assessment, and develops a case plan based on a youth’s criminogenic risks,
       needs, strengths, and available interventions. All risk-needs assessments are
       conducted by trained staff using various assessments, including the OYA
       Risk/Needs Assessment (RNA). Case plans are documented in JJIS.
       OYA Case Planning Principles:
          A case plan is developed and implemented for each youth in OYA custody.
          OYA juvenile parole/probation officers (JPPO) are primary case managers for
           OYA juvenile court commitments.
          OYA case coordinators (or designated staff) are primary case managers for
           Department of Corrections (DOC) commitments in OYA physical custody.
           OYA JPPOs may assist case coordinators (or designated staff) in case
           management by advocating for DOC youth, providing community/family/victim
           continuity support, and possibly transition support.
          The case planning process is built on assessments. It focuses on the youth’s
           needs and strengths, and directs gender- and culturally-specific interventions
           to reduce risk of future criminal conduct.
          The major criminogenic risk factors a case plan addresses include antisocial
           attitudes, delinquent associations and isolation from pro-social associations,
           temperament and behavioral characteristics, low educational or employment
           achievement, negative family factors, substance abuse, and leisure time
           activities.
          Protective factors are identified in the assessments and included in the case
           plan as the youth’s strengths.
          A case plan targets specific reformation areas (called “domains”) including
           offense-specific, family, mental health, substance use, education, vocation,
           social skills, and medical.
          Youth focus on developing their skills in each identified domain. These
           specific skills are identified in the case plan as “competencies."
          A case plan is developed and monitored by a Multidisciplinary Team (MDT).
          The MDT is family and youth-focused, allowing the youth opportunities to
           engage in targeted skill-based interventions designed to help the youth live a
           productive, crime-free life.
          Facility staff provide families with Family Communication Questionnaires (YA
           1816) to ensure families are engaged in youth reformation while youth are in
           OYA facilities.
          Case plans are reviewed regularly to monitor the youth’s progress and update
           goals.
          Each MDT member provides case planning recommendations to the MDT
           according to their specific area of expertise. The MDT collaborates to
           develop, coordinate, and monitor case plans.
          The MDT regularly reviews and documents a youth's progress toward
           meeting reformation goals in the case plan as evidenced by the youth’s
           behavior and in documentation of long-term goals, short-term goals,
           competencies, and interventions.


Page 4 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Multidisciplinary Team and Case Documentation Standards

               Standards for Multidisciplinary Teams (MDT) and case documentation are
               detailed in the OYA Multidisciplinary Team Standards and OYA Case
               Documentation Standards. Staff involved in the MDT or case
               documentation process must follow the standards listed in these
               documents.

       B.      OYA Risk/Needs Assessment

               The identification of areas of risk and need is the first step in case plan
               development. Risk and needs assessment is accomplished through a
               formally-guided interview (of youth, family, and partners) and the use of an
               instrument that has been scientifically validated to identify areas of risk
               and needs.

               All OYA youth are assessed for criminogenic areas of risk, protective
               factors, and resource need with the OYA Risk/ Needs Assessment (RNA).
               The RNA is completed as specified in this policy and OYA standards for
               workflow related to case planning.

               OYA staff may refer to the Oregon Youth Authority Risk/Needs
               Assessment Resource Manual for detailed instructions on administering
               the RNA. The manual provides specific instructions for each domain item;
               domain item relationship to re-offending; protective factor research
               information; and sample interview questions.

               The RNA is designed to identify the youth’s relative risk to re-offend and a
               wide variety of risk factors/protective factors in a number of domains. The
               domains include:
                  Criminal History;
                  Demographics;
                  School;
                  Use of Free Time;
                  Employment;
                  Relationships;
                  Family;
                  Living Arrangements;
                  Alcohol and Drug Use;
                  Mental Health;
                  Attitudes and Behaviors;
                  Aggression; and
                  Skills.



Page 5 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
               1.     Probation commitments

                      a)      The youth's JPPO must complete an RNA within 30 days of
                              the youth's OYA probation commitment.

                              An RNA completed within 60 days prior to a youth's OYA
                              commitment may be used as the initial RNA for case
                              planning purposes but must be professionally reviewed for
                              accuracy. Any new or inaccurate information must be
                              updated in a new RNA.

                      b)      Youth placed in residential treatment facilities: OYA staff
                              must provide a copy of the RNA graph #2 and factoid to
                              residential treatment providers prior to the Master Service
                              Plan meeting.

               2.     Interstate Compact youth

                      The youth's JPPO must complete an RNA within 30 days of the
                      youth's placement in Oregon only if the youth's length of
                      supervision is scheduled to exceed 90 days.

               3.     OYA facility commitments:

                      a)      Initial RNA: YCF intake staff must complete the RNA for
                              youth committed directly from a county to close custody, and
                              for DOC commitments to OYA.

                              (1)     OYA facility intake staff must complete an RNA within
                                      21 days of a youth's admittance into an OYA facility.

                                      An RNA completed within 60 days prior to a youth's
                                      OYA initial commitment may be used as the initial
                                      RNA for case planning purposes but must be
                                      professionally reviewed for accuracy. Any new or
                                      inaccurate information must be updated in a new
                                      RNA.

                              (2)     Intake staff must complete the RNA prior to
                                      developing the youth's case plan, and before the case
                                      is reviewed by the Intake Review Committee (except
                                      Oak Creek YCF).

                      b)      Parole/Probation RNA Reassessment: A JPPO must update
                              a youth's RNA within seven days of the youth's revocation or
                              admission to a YCF when the youth is committed to OYA
                              close custody from OYA probation or parole.

               4.     Staff may reassess a youth with an RNA as needed for case
                      planning purposes such as when there is a change in placement or
                      the youth commits additional crimes.

Page 6 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
       C.       Additional Assessments

                1.        Assessment in the community
                          a)    OYA field staff must be aware of and follow their local
                                protocols regarding mental health and health screening of
                                newly-committed youth.

                          b)    Special assessments relating to behaviors associated with
                                adjudicated crimes (e.g., sex youth, fire setter) may be
                                required by OYA.

                          c)    See OYA policy III-B-2.0 (New Commitments to OYA Legal
                                Custody) for guidelines in gathering and documenting
                                information for youth ordered by the court to OYA legal
                                custody.

                2.        Assessment in OYA facilities

                          In addition to the RNA, intake assessments include the following:

                          a)    Initial Mental Status Assessment;

                                Staff must ensure all youth receive an Initial Mental Status
                                Assessment (YA 4409) by a health care practitioner within
                                one hour of presentation for admission to an OYA facility.
                                Based on the results of the assessment, staff will assign a
                                Suicide Risk level. The Suicide Risk Level must be recorded
                                in the JJIS Population Group “OYA *Suicide
                                Documentation.” (See OYA policy II-D-2.2 Suicide
                                Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities.)

                                See OYA policy II-D-1.0 (Facility Health Services) regarding
                                mental health assessments for youth returning to an OYA
                                facility after releasing to the community, and youth
                                transferring between OYA facilities.

                          b)    If a youth is taking psychotropic medication, a psychiatrist or
                                psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner must complete a
               Revised          psychiatric evaluation within 14 days of the youth's initial
               01/14/13         admittance to an OYA facility;

                          c)    A staff or contracted psychologist, or psychologist resident
                                must complete a psychological evaluation on each youth
                                within 30 days of the youth's initial admittance to an OYA
                                facility from the community;

                          d)    A physical health screening;

                                Staff must ensure all youth receive an Initial Health Screen
                                (YA 4408) within one hour of admittance to an OYA facility.
                                This screening may be completed by a health-trained staff

Page 7 of 15    I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                              (OYA transition camps only) or a qualified health care
                              professional.

                      e)      Special assessments concerning behaviors associated with
                              adjudicated or convicted crimes (e.g. sex offense, fire
                              setter);

                      f)      A comprehensive drug and alcohol abuse evaluation if the
                              youth’s RNA shows a score of 3 or more in the Alcohol and
                              Drug domain;

                              Refer to OYA policies II-E-6.0 (Alcohol & Drug Screening,
                              Assessment, & Treatment in Close Custody Facilities) or
                              III-C-3.1 (Alcohol & Drug Screening, Assessment, &
                              Treatment in Community Settings) for specific guidelines.

                      g)      If appropriate, a vocational evaluation; and

                      h)      An educational evaluation provided by the state Department
                              of Education. The educational evaluation must include
                              evaluations for special education as required by the
                              Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.

       D.      Case Plan Development

               1.     The development of the case plan is based on the Risk/Needs
                      Assessment and the following:

                      a)      Other assessment findings;

                      b)      Input from the core MDT members and a variety of people
                              including:

                              (1)     The youth;

                              (2)     The youth’s family;

                              (3)     Educators;

                              (4)     Medical/mental health professionals;

                              (5)     Community and facility treatment providers;

                              (6)     Vocational specialists; and

                              (7)     The youth’s primary case manager.

               2.     Staff must ensure a youth's case plan addresses concerns
                      (described as "problems”) using strengths and focusing on goals
                      and skill development necessary to enhance public safety. The



Page 8 of 15   I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                        case plan may target factors within one or more of the following
                        domains:
                         Offense-specific;
                         Family;
                         Mental health;
                         Substance Use;
                         Education;
                         Vocation;
                         Life/Social skills; or
                         Medical.

                        Staff must activate domains that have the highest criminogenic risk
                        and need factors. Not every domain will be active for each youth.

                        The mapping between RNA domains and case plan domains is
                        illustrated below.

               OYA Risk/Needs Assessment Domains                OYA Case Plan Domains
               Aggression                                       Life/Social Skills
               Alcohol & Drug (current & history)               Substance Use
               Attitudes & Behaviors                            Offense-specific
               Criminal History                                 Offense-specific (Pre-screen only)
               Demographics                                     None
               Employment (current & history)                   Vocation
               Family History                                   Family
               Living Arrangement (current)                     Family
               Mental Health (current & history)                Mental Health
               Relationships                                    Life/Social Skills
               School (current & history)                       Education
               Skills                                           Life/Social Skills
               Use of Free Time (current & history)             Life/Social Skills
               None                                             Medical

                 3.     The MDT will develop a case plan based on the needs identified in
                        all assessments.

                        a)      The MDT must follow standards set in the OYA
                                Multidisciplinary Team Standards document regarding the
                                role of the MDT and its members in case plan development.

                        b)      Case plans developed during a youth's close-custody intake
                                placement may be limited in scope, as a comprehensive
                                case plan will be developed once the youth arrives at his/her
                                treatment unit.
                 4.     Case plan timeliness

                        a)      Probation cases: The JPPO must document a youth's case
                                plan in JJIS within 45 days of the youth’s commitment to
                                OYA.

Page 9 of 15     I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                      b)      OYA facility cases:

                              (1)     Direct commitments from county or DOC: Facility
                                      intake case coordinators must document a youth's
                                      initial intake case plan in JJIS within 30 days of the
                                      youth's admission into an OYA facility.

                              (2)     Commitments from probation or parole: The youth's
                                      JPPO must update the case plan as needed.

               5.     Staff must ensure each case plan contains the following for each
                      open domain:

                      a)      Problem statement: Behavioral deficit or symptoms
                              presented by the youth in an assessment are described as
                              “problems.” Problem statements are written so the targeted
                              behavior is well-defined. Findings from the assessments are
                              used when writing the problem statement.

                      b)      Strengths/Assets: youth committed to OYA come with a
                              variety of personal strengths that can assist them in
                              achieving identified goals. The protective factors identified
                              from the RNA and cultural attributes must be considered
                              when identifying strengths.

                      c)      Long-term Goals: The long-term goal is the desired outcome
                              of behavior change and skill improvement that should be
                              achieved over time.

                              JJIS offers a selection of the most commonly used goals for
                              each case plan domain. If none of the JJIS goals meet a
                              youth's needs, staff may develop unique goals.

                      d)      Competencies: Competencies are the skills a youth must
                              develop to reach a long-term goal.

                              JJIS offers a selection of core competencies associated with
                              specific long-term goals. If none of the JJIS competencies
                              meet a youth's needs, staff may develop unique
                              competencies.

                      e)      Short-term Goals: Short-term goals are Short, Measurable,
                              Attainable, Realistic and Timely (SMART).

                              Short-term goals are small, linear steps designed to help a
                              youth reach a long-term goal. Short-term goals outline
                              realistic incremental achievements the youth is expected to
                              accomplish within 30- and 90-day periods (between MDT
                              meetings).




Page 10 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                              (1)     Short-term goals are individualized and entered into
                                      JJIS as free-form text.

                              (2)     The ability of the youth to respond will be considered
                                      when developing short-term goals.

                              (3)     Short-term goals are not required for youth in
                                      community residential placements (BRS placements).

                      f)      Interventions: Interventions are services or supports
                              provided to a youth in order to successfully develop
                              competencies and achieve long-term goals.

                              (1)     Interventions may be delivered by staff, service
                                      providers, and others in either a structured format or
                                      curriculum (program), or a less formal format.

                              (2)     The youth's learning style and other factors that may
                                      impact the youth's ability to respond will be
                                      considered when identifying interventions.

               6.     Transition case planning

                      a)      The MDT must establish two transition placement goals
                              when developing a youth's initial case plan: “Placement at
                              Termination of Custody” and the “Next Placement.”

                              The primary case manager must update these placement
                              goals in JJIS as they change.

                      b)      The primary case manager must document in JJIS transition
                              activities (specialized activities designed to ensure a smooth
                              transition to the next placement) prior to the youth's
                              transition to the next placement.

                              (1)     These activities may be documented prior to the
                                      youth's transfer between OYA facilities.

                              (2)     These activities must be documented when a youth
                                      returns to the community from either an OYA facility
                                      or a residential treatment facility.

       E.      Monitoring Goals and Case Plan Progress

               1.     Staff must document a youth’s progress toward meeting case plan
                      goals by entering progress notes in JJIS.

                      Progress notes include notations related to the youth’s progress
                      toward meeting short-term goals and competencies, participating in
                      treatment groups, interventions, and general behavioral
                      observations.

Page 11 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
               2.     OYA facility: The appropriate staff must enter a youth's progress
                      notes as needed but not less than every other week. The unit
                      management staff must ensure progress notes are documented.

               3.     Probation and parole: The appropriate staff must enter a youth's
                      progress notes as needed, and not less than once per month.

       F.      Reviewing Goals and the Case Plan

               OYA staff and the MDT must periodically review individual case plans
               throughout a youth’s commitment to OYA.

               These reviews must analyze youth progress toward achieving goals over
               the last 90 days and establish or revise goals for the next 90 days.

               The MDT must conduct these reviews –

               1.     Quarterly;

               2.     Within 45 days of a youth’s transition into the community; and

               3.     Unscheduled, as needed.

               See the OYA Multidisciplinary Team Standards document for general
               standards concerning goal and case plan reviews.

       G.      Distribution of the Case Plan

               1.     Staff must provide youth and participating parents/guardians a
                      Case Plan Summary (YA 3013) after each MDT meeting. A full
                      copy of the case plan may be provided upon request.

               2.     The following OYA JJIS forms have designated signature areas for
                      OYA staff, youth, and parents/guardians.

                      Staff must ensure the correct forms are signed and distributed as
                      directed on the forms. The originals must be kept in the youth’s
                      case file.

                      a)      Case Plan Report MDT - Facility (YA 4097)

                      b)      Case Plan Report MDT - Facility – DOC Youth (YA 4101)

                      c)      Case Plan Report MDT - Field (YA 3002)

                              Residential placements: A signed Master Service Plan
                              attached to the YA 3002 may substitute a youth’s signature
                              on the YA 3002.




Page 12 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
H.     Quality Assurance

               1.     MDT Team Process Guide (YA 1814)

                      MDT meeting facilitators may use a checklist (form YA 1814) to
                      help guide them through the MDT process and ensure the team
                      adheres to the OYA Multidisciplinary Team Standards.

               2.     MDT observation

                      a)      Supervisors must observe their staff members during at least
                              one MDT meeting each year.

                              (1)     Field supervisors will observe their JPPOs during
                                      MDT meetings in the community or close-custody
                                      facilities.

                              (2)     Youth transitional facility MDT meetings: The camp
                                      director or superintendent will observe their staff.

                              (3)     Youth correctional facility MDT meetings: Program
                                      directors will observe their staff.

                      b)      Supervisors must complete a YA 1815 (MDT Observation
                              Form) to help ensure staff adhere to OYA Multidisciplinary
                              Team Standards.

                              (1)     Supervisors must review their observations with their
                                      staff and maintain the original YA 1815.

                              (2)     A copy of the YA 1815 must be sent to the OYA
                                      Quality Assurance Coordinator.

                              (3)     The OYA Quality Assurance Coordinator must create
                                      periodic statewide summary reports derived from the
                                      information in the YA 1815s.

                                      Information from the statewide summary reports must
                                      be shared with field supervisors, facility
                                      superintendents, camp directors, and facility program
                                      directors to provide a comprehensive view of how the
                                      agency is adhering to its OYA Multidisciplinary Team
                                      Standards.

               3.     Case Plan Audits

                      a)      Field supervisors must complete case plan audits of their
                              staff's caseloads.

                              (1)     Initial case plans must be audited within 60 days of a
                                      youth's placement in the community.


Page 13 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                              (2)     Transition plans must be audited within 60 days of a
                                      youth's release into the community from a close-
                                      custody facility.

                              (3)     The field supervisor must review each youth's case
                                      within their purview with the assigned JPPO every 90
                                      days.

                      b)      Facility supervisors (superintendents, camp directors, or
                              program directors) must complete initial case plan audits of
                              their staff's caseloads.

                              Initial case plans must be audited within 105 days of a
                              youth's direct commitment to an OYA facility.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 14 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
                              OYA Youth Assessment, MDT, and Case Planning Timeline
                 Youth committed to OYA physical or legal custody.
                 Within 30 days of commitment: Intake Assessment
                    Collect and review file information.
                    Facility: Schedule Intake MDT.


All Youth
                    Community: Schedule Initial MDT.
                    Interview youth, family/guardians, prior supervising agents and others involved (school, providers,
                    relatives, mentors, etc.).
                    Complete OYA RNA in JJIS within 21 days for facilities; 30 days for probation cases; 7 days for
                    parole/probation violator cases.
                    Complete appropriate additional assessments and record in JJIS (e.g., ERASOR, mental health,
                    MAYSI II, alcohol and drug).
                 Within 30 days of commitment: Facility Intake MDT
                    Establish MDT membership beyond core team.
                    Present youth and other MDT members with assessment results and information collected.
                    Complete intake case plan.




Facility Youth
                    Enter case plan information into JJIS.
                    Present case plan and MDT recommendations to IRC for treatment placement designation.
                 Within 30 days of arrival to designated treatment unit (or after any change in facility placement):
                 Facility Initial MDT
                    Establish MDT members beyond core team.
                    Complete comprehensive case plan (short and long-term goals, competencies, interventions) and enter
                    into JJIS.
                    Schedule next MDT (quarterly).
                    If youth not moved to designation within 60 days, reestablish goals through MDT follow-up.
                 Within 30 days of commitment (or after any change in community placement): Community Initial MDT



Field Youth
                    Present youth and other MDT members with assessment results and information collected.
                    Complete initial case plan (short and long-term goals, competencies, interventions) within 45 days of
                    commitment.
                    Enter case plan information into JJIS.
                    Establish MDT membership beyond core team.
                 JPPO Contacts (adjudicated youth): At least every 30 days.
                    Identify progress toward goals.
                    Document in JJIS contact notes.
                 90 days after Initial MDT: Quarterly MDT (and subsequently every 90 days)
                    Core team presence required.
                    Progress toward short and long-term goals and goal setting for next 90 days.
                    Review progress toward competencies and determine ratings.
                    Give youth and parents a copy of short-term goals.


All Youth
                    Give youth and parents a “Case Plan Summary” printed from JJIS.
                    Facilities only: Have family complete a YA 1816 questionnaire according to procedure FAC I-A-11.0.
                    Schedule next MDT meeting.
                 Within 45 days of transition date: Transition MDT
                    Focus on providing information and bridging goals and competencies between placements.
                    Identify intervention needs and begin process of establishing resources.
                    MDT will identify transition short-term goals.
                    Enter transition information into JJIS.
                    Facilities only: Schedule Parole Review Committee. Transition plan prepared by case coordinator. Case
                    coordinator will request unofficial school records from the facility school for transition purposes.
                    Complete Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement identifying transition expectations.




                 Page 15 of 15 I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case Planning Effective: 07/30/2012
