                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors - Facility
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                    II-E-5.0 (6/21)                 Review:
 E: Programming – 5.0               II-E-5.0 (10/18) 06/21/2023     06/21/2025
                                    II-E-5.0 (09/12)
                                    II-E-5.0 (11/07)
                                    II-E-5.0 (10/05)
 Related        ORS 419C.486 (Consideration of recommendations of committing
 Standards       court; case planning)
 and            ORS 420A.125 (Adjudicated Youths; intake assessments;
 References:     reformation plan; placement)
                OYA policy: I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and
                 Case Planning
                 III-C-3.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective
                 Factors – Community
                JJIS forms: OYA 3002 - J (Case Plan Report - MDT Field)
 Related        None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                      Approved:

 Development Services Assistant
 Director                                    ____________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for assessing OYA youth (placed in close-custody
       facilities) who received formal court action for a sex crime to identify their risks,
       needs, strengths, and available interventions.

       Refer to OYA policy III-C-3.0 (Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and
       Protective Factors - Community) regarding youth in OYA community placements.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Case Plan: A case plan is a formal plan with prescribed interventions and
       documentation requirements and is a tool to assist staff in managing cases,
       setting goals and reviewing a youth’s interventions and progress. A case plan
       constitutes and fulfills the requirements of the Reformation Plan as defined in
       ORS 420A.005, 420A.125 and 420A.010 and is created and maintained in the
       statewide Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS).

Page 1 of 5 II-E-5.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors – Facility
Effective: 06/21/2023
       Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): The Juvenile Justice Information
       System (JJIS) is a statewide-integrated electronic information system designed,
       developed, and implemented to support a continuum of services and shared
       responsibility among all members of the juvenile justice community. In a
       collaborative partnership between the Oregon Youth Authority (OYA) and
       Oregon's county juvenile departments, JJIS is administered by the State of
       Oregon through OYA.

       Multidisciplinary Team (MDT): A team of individuals who work collaboratively to
       develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan that is culturally
       competent and gender-specific for each youth committed to the Oregon Youth
       Authority (OYA). The MDT is based on a core team membership consisting of the
       youth, OYA primary case manager, placement representative, QMHP
       (facility)/treatment provider (community), tribal representative (for youth enrolled
       in one of Oregon’s federally recognized tribes) and the youth’s
       parents/guardians. Additional team members vary and are identified by the core
       team based on the youth’s Risk Needs Assessment, identified criminogenic
       needs and placement.

       PROFESOR: The Protective + Risk Observations For Eliminating Sexual Offense
       Recidivism (PROFESOR) is a structured checklist to assist professionals to
       identify and summarize protective and risk factors for adolescents and emerging
       adults (i.e., individuals aged 12 to 25) who have offended sexually. The
       PROFESOR is intended to assist with planning interventions that can help
       individuals to enhance their capacity for sexual and relationship health and, thus,
       eliminate sexual recidivism. The PROFESOR contains 20 factors that are rated
       as Protective (i.e., factors that promote future health and mitigate risk), Neutral
       (i.e., neither clearly protective nor clearly risk), or Risk (i.e., factors that indicate
       risk and identified areas of need for treatment interventions). These 20 factors
       were chosen based on a review of the available literature and on clinical
       experience with adolescents and emerging adults who have offended sexually.
       Factors considered in the PROFESOR should be reassessed periodically to
       evaluate changes in the areas of short-term risk and treatment needs.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. OYA recognizes the existence of disparities, and inequities, within the
       juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that system, it plays a
       critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities it perpetuates.
       Staff must strive to be aware of their biases and eliminate any negative impact
       their biases may have when conducting assessments and making treatment
       decisions about youth.

       OYA’s objective is to protect the public by ensuring youth accountability,
       promoting change, developing/improving skills, and reducing the likelihood that
       youth will commit more crime.



Page 2 of 5 II-E-5.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors – Facility
Effective: 06/21/2023
       Risk assessments attempt to describe factors likely to increase and decrease
       occurrence of a specified behavior. There are currently no empirically-validated
       instruments for assessing the risk of adolescent sexual reoffending. OYA will
       conduct a risk/treatment needs assessment for adolescent sex offense risk using
       the PROFESOR for all youth who received formal court action for a sex crime
       and are committed to OYA custody or placed by the Oregon Department of
       Corrections (DOC) in the physical custody of OYA, to identify their risks, needs,
       strengths, and available interventions. The identification of areas of risk/treatment
       need is one of the first steps in case plan development. The PROFESOR must
       be completed as specified in this policy and OYA protocols for workflow related
       to case planning.

       The PROFESOR must be conducted only by approved and trained staff or
       contracted providers.

       Proper administration of the PROFESOR depends on obtaining data from
       multiple sources including interviews with the youth, youth’s family members,
       caretakers, mental health professionals familiar with the youth, teachers, and
       others familiar with the youth. Psychological tests, behavioral observation, record
       review, and data collected on static and dynamic variables are included.
       Information collected solely from youth interviews or a file review is not sufficient
       to properly administer the PROFESOR.

       The overall ratings for the protective and risk factors characteristics can be
       summarized into one of five categories - from Predominantly Protective
       (Category 1) to Predominantly Risk (Category 5). These categories are intended
       to reflect the intensity of services that may be required, not as a predicative
       summary of future behavior.

       The results of a PROFESOR must not be the sole determining factor in youth
       case planning decisions such as placement, custody termination, or parole. The
       PROFESOR results must be used by a youth’s Multidisciplinary Team (MDT)
       along with all other available assessments and information to determine the
       youth's current, short-term risks and treatment needs.

       Given that factors on the PROFESOR are rated based on a two-month window of
       time, they are sensitive to potential changes. The review will assist in determining
       the youth’s progress in treatment and potential changes in treatment needs.
       Information obtained in the review will be compared against data from previous
       PROFESOR assessments. This allows the MDT to evaluate the youth's
       risk/needs changes.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Assessment eligibility

               A youth committed to a OYA close-custody facility must be assessed with
               the PROFESOR if the youth was:

               1.      Adjudicated for, or convicted of, a sex crime 1; or


Page 3 of 5 II-E-5.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors – Facility
Effective: 06/21/2023
               2.      Referred for a sex crime but adjudicated for, or convicted of, a non-
                       sex crime, and the court made an acknowledgement or finding that
                       there was sexual activity involved in the crime.

       B.      Initial Assessment

               The PROFESOR assessment is used by the MDT as part of youth
               treatment planning and placement strategies. The PROFESOR is
               administered in conjunction with other assessments to determine
               placement and short-term goals to address any immediate treatment
               needs.

               1.      Staff must ensure all eligible youth are assessed using the
                       PROFESOR in addition to other assessments required after
                       admission to close custody.

               2.      The PROFESOR must be administered within 30 days of a youth's
                       admission to their initial assigned living unit (not intake unit), before
                       the youth's initial MDT meeting. The MDT must consider the
                       PROFESOR results along with all other relevant youth information
                       and assessments.

                       a)      Exception: If a PROFESOR was completed within two
                               months prior to a youth’s admission to close custody,
                               completion of another PROFESOR is not required.

                       b)      Staff must obtain a copy of the assessment, file it in the
                               youth's case file, and import the PROFESOR Summary
                               Sheet with narrative into the Juvenile Justice Information
                               System (JJIS). If a copy of the PROFESOR cannot be
                               obtained, a PROFESOR must be completed as indicated
                               above (#2).

               3.      The PROFESOR must be administered by approved and trained
                       staff including, but not limited to, living unit managers, qualified
                       mental health professionals (QMHPs), contracted mental health
                       professionals, and case coordinators.

       C.      Guidelines for Reassessment

               PROFESOR assessment findings are time-limited. PROFESOR
               reassessments or reviews must occur according to the following
               guidelines:

               1.      Every six months a PROFESOR review must occur;

               2.      Within one month prior to a youth’s transition into the community
                       (residential placement, foster care, a family member’s home, or
                       independent living) a complete reassessment must occur; and




Page 4 of 5 II-E-5.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors – Facility
Effective: 06/21/2023
                3.      Upon recommendation from the youth’s MDT following significant
                        changes in one or more risk factors, a complete reassessment
                        must occur.

        D.      Recording the results of the PROFESOR Assessment in JJIS

                Staff must complete the PROFESOR and narrative in JJIS in accordance
                with this policy.

V.      LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO
1 Youth adjudicated for (or convicted of) the following crimes are subject to PROFESOR assessments:

• Rape, sodomy, unlawful sexual penetration or sexual abuse in any degree;
• Incest with a child victim;
• Using a child in a display of sexually explicit conduct;
• Encouraging child sexual abuse in any degree;
• Transporting child pornography into the state;
• Paying for viewing a child’s sexually explicit conduct;
• Compelling or promoting prostitution;
• Kidnapping in the first degree if the victim was under 18 years of age;
• Contributing to the sexual delinquency of a minor;
• Sexual misconduct;
• Possession of materials depicting sexually explicit conduct of a child in the first degree;
• Kidnapping in the second degree if the victim was under 18 years of age, except by a parent or by a
  person found to be within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court;
• Sexual assault of an animal;
• Burglary, when committed with intent to commit any of the offenses listed above;
• Public or private indecency;
• Harassment, touch intimate part;
• Any attempt to commit any of the offenses listed above.




Page 5 of 5 II-E-5.0 Youth Assessment for Sex Offense Risk and Protective Factors – Facility
Effective: 06/21/2023
