                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                             Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Food Handlers Sanitation and Safety
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Personnel Management – 2.3              I-D-2.3 (02/05) 01/25/2011            Review:
                                                                          04/24/2025
 Related             U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health
 Standards            Service, Food and Drug Administration Food Code; 1-201.10
 and                  Accredited Program; 2-201.11 Pre-Employment Screening;
 References:           2-102.11 Certified Training for PIC from accredited Program
                     Oregon Department of Human Services, Foodborne Illness
                      Prevention Program, “Food Safety – Your Self-Training Manual”
                     OYA policy: II-D-3.0 (Facility Nutrition Services)
                      I-D-3.16 (Volunteer Services)
                     OYA forms: YA 4630 (Applicant and Food Handling Employee
                      Interview Past and Current History)
                      YA 4631 (Food Handling Employee or Applicant Medical Referral)
                      YA 4632 (Food Handler Card Verification)
                      YA 4633 (Food Handling Employee Reporting Agreement)
                      YA 4634 (Food Handling Employee Health Screening)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Food Services Operations Manager
                                            ________________________
                                            Colette S. Peters, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides general standards for food service sanitation and safety in
       OYA facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Food handler: Persons, including youth, involved in the preparation or service of
       food in a facility. This includes, but is not limited to, staff supervising meal
       service, preparation, and restaurant operations, cooks, servers, dishwashers,
       and clean-up crew.

       Foodborne pathogen: Any hazard to humans that may arise from consumption
       of food contaminated with any disease-causing agent, such as a virus or
       bacterium.

Page 1 of 4           I-D-2.3 Food Handlers Sanitation and Safety             Effective: 01/25/2011
       Highly contagious diseases: Highly contagious diseases include typhoid
       (Salmonella Typhi), shigellosis (Shigella spp.), nontyphoidal Salmonella,
       Escherichia coli (Shiga toxin-producing E.coli) infection, Norovirus and hepatitis
       A virus. Common symptoms, may include diarrhea, fever, vomiting, nausea,
       abdominal cramps, jaundice (yellowing of the eyes and skin), sore throat with
       fever, lesions containing pus on hand, wrist, or an exposed body part (such as
       boils, and infected wounds, however small).

       Person-in-charge (PIC): A designated staff on duty during meal periods who is
       certified in food protection through Oregon Food Handler or ServSafe training
       and able to demonstrate knowledge of safe food handling and its potential as a
       vehicle for disease transmission.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA protects the health of youth, food handlers, and staff by operating safe food
       service systems that adhere to national and statewide foodborne illness
       prevention programs.

       A wide range of highly contagious diseases and infections may be transmitted by
       infected food handlers through food or food utensils. Proper food service
       operations ensure healthy people are handling food safely, and identify food
       handlers who are at risk of transmitting foodborne pathogens. In order to protect
       the health of youth, food handlers, and OYA staff, health status information is
       required as a condition of employment for applicants who are offered
       employment by OYA as food handlers.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Food Handler Applicants

              In addition to general OYA employee applicant requirements, hiring staff
              must ensure applicants who are offered employment by OYA as food
              handlers complete a YA 4630 (Applicant and Food Handling Employee
              Interview-Past and Current History).

              If the applicant has health issues requiring physician clearance, the hiring
              staff must refer the applicant to their physician for clearance by completing
              a Food Handling Employee or Applicant Medical Referral (YA 4631). Once
              completed, the YA 4631 must be forwarded to Human Resources. No
              copies of the form may be kept at the facility.

       B.     Food Handler Card

              1.     Food Service Managers, Cook IIs and Supervising Cooks must
                     have an active Oregon food handler card at the time of hire or
                     agree to obtain one within 30 days of hire (YA 4632) and maintain it
                     throughout employment with OYA.

                     a)     Food handler cards must be renewed every three years.



Page 2 of 4          I-D-2.3 Food Handlers Sanitation and Safety       Effective: 01/25/2011
                     b)     Food handler cards issued in other states are not valid in
                            Oregon.

                     c)     A valid ServSafe certificate is accepted in lieu of a food
                            handler card and must be renewed every five years.

              2.     OYA may pay for food handler card renewals and update classes
                     for food handler staff on an ongoing basis.

              3.     Once hired, the food handler staff must sign an agreement
                     (YA 4633) to report to the person-in-charge (PIC) any high-risk
                     infectious health issues they may have on an ongoing basis.

                     The YA 4633 must be filled out and forwarded to Human
                     Resources as soon as signatures are obtained. No copies of the
                     form may be kept at the facility.

       C.     Staff that supervise food-handling youth that are not required to have a
              food handler card must complete food safety training 30 days from their
              date of hire.

              1.     E-learning training is available on iLearn and is based on
                     Department of Human Services (DHS) Foodborne Illness
                     Prevention Program, “Food Safety – Your Self-training Manual.”
                     Training and testing must be monitored by OYA staff either as part
                     of New Employee Orientation (NEO) or at other scheduled times.
                     The iLearn course is titled “OYA Food Safety for Food Handlers.”

              2.     The training must be renewed every three years throughout
                     employment with OYA.

       D.     Food Service staff must ensure youth newly admitted or revoked to a
              close-custody facility do not work in the kitchen or handle food for the first
              60 days of placement. Youth who transfer from one close-custody facility
              to another do not require a new 60-day waiting period.

       E.     Food Service staff must ensure youth and volunteers who prepare,
              handle, and serve food complete food safety training prior to beginning
              their food service duties. The training course is available on iLearn and is
              titled “OYA Food Safety for Food Handlers.”

              1.     Training and testing must be monitored by OYA staff and a
                     certificate will be issued verifying successful completion and
                     understanding of the course material. A copy of the certificate will
                     be kept on file in the Food Service department.

              2.     The certificate is only valid on OYA properties and must be
                     renewed every three years.

       F.     OYA facilities must have PIC trained staff on duty during all meal periods.
              All PIC staff must have completed PIC certified training from an accredited


Page 3 of 4          I-D-2.3 Food Handlers Sanitation and Safety        Effective: 01/25/2011
              program. Recognized programs include County Health Department
              Certified Managers’ training, and Serve Safe training.

              Staff must direct food-related concerns or issues to the PIC to assure food
              safety is maintained at each facility.

       G.     On-going Health Screening

              To ensure that food is being handled safely and that food handlers are
              free of infectious/communicable disease, ongoing observation of food
              handlers must occur to screen those who are ill and may be sent home.
              Only superintendents/camp directors may approve reassignment of work
              duties.

              1.    The PIC is responsible for ensuring food handler physical wellness.
                    The PIC will screen staff who exhibit symptoms of illness by
                    completing a Food Handling Employee Health Screening
                    (YA 4634).

              2.    If a staff appears to be ill, a second screening by a manager must
                    be completed using the same YA 4634 and must be signed by the
                    manager.

              3.    The manager must ensure the staff member signs the YA 4634 and
                    will provide the staff member with a copy of the form.

              4.    If the staff member is ill, the staff must be sent home and use
                    appropriate leave time during their absence.

              5.    When appropriate, a manager may request a YA 4631 be
                    completed by a doctor to clear the staff member of
                    infectious/communicable disease before the staff member returns
                    to work.

              6.    All forms must be forwarded to Human Resources as soon as
                    signatures are obtained. Copies of these forms may not be kept at
                    the facility.

       H.     When the Supervising Cook or Cook II responsible for Nutrition Services
              operation is absent, the management staff assigned to supervise these
              positions is responsible for the facility’s food safety.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4         I-D-2.3 Food Handlers Sanitation and Safety      Effective: 01/25/2011
