                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Volunteer Services
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:        Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D – Personnel Management: 3.16 I-D-3.16 (12/18) 02/01/2021
                                                                        Revision:
                                       I-D-3.16 (4/16)                  08/12/2024
                                       I-D-3.16 (3/12)
                                       I-D-3.16 (7/04)
                                       I-D-3.16 (6/03)
 Related        OAR Chapter 416, Division 450 (Volunteer Services)
 Standards      National PREA Standards for Juvenile Facilities: 115.332 Volunteer
 and             and contractor training
 References:  OYA policy: 0-2.4 Conflict of Interest
                 I-D-5.0 Criminal Records Checks; Child Abuse Registry Checks
                OYA forms: YA 1401 (Volunteer Application Form)
                 YA 1402 (Volunteer Criminal Records Check Consent)
                 YA 1403 (Conditions of Volunteer Service)
                 YA 1404 (Volunteer Monthly Record)
                 YA 1405 (Liability and Volunteer Injury Coverage)
                 YA 1406 (Volunteer Training Acknowledgement)
                 YA 6011 (OYA Intern and Practicum Confidentiality Agreement)
                 YA 6030 (OYA Volunteer Agreement)
                 YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review)
                 YA 8131 (Notice of Final Criminal Records Check Fitness
                 Determination)
 Related        TS I-D-3.16 Onsite Practicum Agreement
 Procedures:  FAC I-D-3.16 Volunteer Services
 Policy Owner:                         Approved:

 Chief of Facility Operations
                                           ________________________
                                           Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides standards for OYA staff when coordinating volunteer
       services in OYA facilities and offices.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Former youth: 1) Any youth no longer in OYA legal or physical custody who has
       not reached the age of majority (18); and 2) any youth who is at least 18 years
       old for whom less than three years have elapsed since OYA legal or physical
       custody has terminated, and since supervision in the community by any

Page 1 of 4                     I-D-3.16 Volunteer Services                Effective: 02/01/2021
       supervising authority for the adjudication or conviction that resulted in OYA legal
       or physical custody has terminated.

       Intern: A student pursuing a graduate graduate-level licensure, or similar
       graduate certification, whose program requires real-world experience under the
       supervision of a qualified OYA staff member.

       Office: Any parole/probation office (field office) or administrative office operated
       by OYA.

       Practicum: A student pursuing an undergraduate degree who earns credit by
       serving a designated number of hours or completing a specific project required
       by their school.

       Volunteer coordinator: A person assigned to coordinate volunteer services for
       a specific OYA office or facility.

       Volunteers: Persons who, on a non-paid basis, provide services to OYA.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA encourages volunteer participation where feasible within its facilities and
       offices to enhance and expand the services offered to youth. Volunteers are
       recruited to enrich services for youth, but not to replace OYA staff activities,
       responsibilities, and functions. OYA strives to recruit volunteers who represent
       the cultural, gender, racial, and ethnic diversity of OYA youth to promote
       diversity, equity, and inclusion.

IV.    Volunteer Coordinators

       A.     The Facility and Community Services assistant directors must assign staff
              to coordinate volunteer services within their work areas.

       B.     Each OYA facility superintendent/camp director must designate a
              volunteer coordinator for their facility.

       C.     Managers of offices are the volunteer coordinators for their offices.

       D.     Volunteer coordinators must develop and maintain the volunteer schedule,
              respond to any volunteer conduct concerns, and ensure volunteer
              applicants are screened, trained, and provided on-going informational
              updates.

V.     Volunteer Applicant Age Requirement, Exception Criteria, and
       Relationships with Youth or Staff

       A.     OYA volunteers must be age 21 or older.

              Exception: Written exceptions may be made for students who are at least
              18 years old and required to participate in such experience to gain a
              college certificate or diploma, or professional licensing.


Page 2 of 4                    I-D-3.16 Volunteer Services              Effective: 02/01/2021
       B.     Conflict of Interest

              1.     Volunteer coordinators must determine if volunteer applicants have
                     a conflict of interest with OYA youth or current OYA staff (e.g.,
                     relatives, friends, business partners).

              2.     Volunteer coordinators must ensure OYA policy 0-2.4 Conflict of
                     Interest is followed when a volunteer applicant has a potential or
                     actual conflict of interest.

              3.     Volunteer applications from current OYA staff must be approved by
                     the staff member’s supervisor and reviewed by Human Resources
                     to ensure a conflict of interest does not exist.

VI.    Application, Screening, Approval or Denial

       Volunteer coordinators are encouraged to identify and recruit volunteers who
       represent the cultural, gender, racial and ethnic diversity of OYA youth to
       promote diversity, equity, and inclusion. Staff must direct volunteer candidates to
       complete OYA’s online application form (YA 1401), located on the OYA public
       website.

       A.     Volunteer coordinators must ensure volunteer applicants complete an
              application packet.

       B.     Screening process

              1.     The volunteer coordinator must manage the screening process for
                     every applicant. The screening process includes:

                     a)     Criminal record and child abuse registry checks;

                     b)     References; and

                     c)     Interviews.

              2.     Former youth applicants

                     The OYA executive team must determine whether OYA will
                     approve a former youth’s volunteer application.

       C.     Application denial

              1.     The Facility or Community Services assistant director or facility
                     superintendent/camp director must follow OYA policy I-D-5.0
                     Criminal Records Checks; Child Abuse Registry Checks if
                     considering denying an applicant’s service due to a records check
                     finding.

              2.     OYA’s decision to deny a volunteer application is final.



Page 3 of 4                    I-D-3.16 Volunteer Services            Effective: 02/01/2021
              3.     Facility or Community Services administration must follow up with a
                     written notification to the volunteer applicant of application denial.

VII.    Onboarding Approved Volunteer Applicants

        A.    If the application is approved, the volunteer coordinator must ensure the
              volunteer receives and completes all applicable onboarding (including
              training, orientation, and forms) before starting their volunteer service.

        B.    Volunteer coordinators must ensure volunteers are informed their duties
              do not include responsibilities assigned to staff, such as supervising or
              transporting youth, using restraints, or accessing keys.

VIII.   Annual Reviews

        A.    Volunteer coordinators must ensure volunteers are reviewed at least
              annually regarding their service performances and continued service
              need.

        B.    The volunteer coordinator must ensure that a computerized criminal
              record check is completed and reviewed on each volunteer annually.

IX.     Volunteer Termination and Resignation

        A.    A volunteer coordinator, superintendent, camp director, field supervisor, or
              assistant director may terminate a volunteer’s service.

        B.    OYA’s decision to terminate a volunteer’s service is final.

        C.    A volunteer may resign at any time.

        D.    The volunteer coordinator must ensure the volunteer surrenders their
              volunteer identification badge, and any system user access is disabled
              upon the volunteer’s termination or resignation.

X.      LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO

XI.     GENERAL PROCEDURE REQUIRED: YES
        A general procedure must supplement this policy with the following information:
        A.    Volunteer services file requirements;
        B.    Volunteer service hour tracking;
        C.    Age exception process;
        D.    Application packet requirements;
        E.    Applicant record review and interviews;
        F.    Lapsed applications and service interruptions; and
        G.    Volunteer onboarding process, training, and description of duties.


Page 4 of 4                   I-D-3.16 Volunteer Services              Effective: 02/01/2021
