                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                        Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject
 English Plus – Youth (Facility)
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
 E: Programming – 2.4                   II-E-2.4 (04/16) 04/26/2024        Review:
                                        II-E-2.4 (03/07)                   04/26/2026
                                        II-E-2.4 (04/01)
 Related            The Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Titles VI and VII) and The Civil
 Standards           Rights Act of 1991
 and                English Plus Resolution Reintroduced 1997
 References:        OAR Chapter 416, Division 20 Youth in Custody Grievance
                     Process
                    Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
                     Detention Facilities; Programming; Reintegration
                    OYA policy: I-D-2.1 Use of Language Services
                    OYA form: YA 1500 Staff Request for Youth to Use English Only
                     YA 1501 Request for Translation Services – for written documents
                     YA 1502 Request for Interpretation Services – for spoken/sign
                     language
 Related            None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                             Approved:

 Office of Inclusion and Intercultural
 Relations (OIIR) Director                 ______________________
                                           Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for youth, youth families, and staff communication
       in languages other than English in OYA facilities. This policy is also applicable to
       the use of signing by deaf or hard of hearing youth and their families or visitors.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:
       Bilingual: Using or able to use two languages especially with equal fluency.
       Limited English Proficient (LEP): LEP individuals, as a result of national origin,
       are limited in their English proficiency.
       o Many LEP individuals are in the process of learning English and may read,
          write, speak, and/or understand some English, but not proficiently.
       o LEP status may be context-specific – an individual may have sufficient
          English language skills to communicate basic information (name, address
          etc.) but may not have sufficient English-speaking skills to communicate
          detailed information (e.g., medical information, treatment groups,
Page 1 of 3                 II-E-2.4 English Plus - Youth (Facility)            Effective: 04/26/2024
              Multidisciplinary Treatment meetings, eyewitness accounts, information
              elicited in an interview) in English.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA is aware of the growing diversity of its staff and youth. OYA values and
       supports language diversity and seeks to provide language-specific and
       culturally-appropriate services to youth and their families. Even though a youth
       may understand English at a survival level, the youth may not be at a level that
       permits adequate comprehension of spoken or written English.

       Staff must be aware of the growing language diversity of OYA staff and youth
       and the need to, at times, use a language other than English. Communication in
       a youth’s native language is encouraged and acceptable among youth, between
       youth and staff, and youth and their families.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        Youth have a right, subject to reasonable justifiable safety and security
                 concerns, to communicate with each other in their native languages,
                 except in situations where all youth are directed to be silent.

                 1.     An immediate directive to an individual youth not to speak the
                        youth’s native language must be reasonable and related to safety
                        and security.

                        The staff member who gave the directive must document the
                        directive on a YA 1500 (Staff Request for Youth to Use English
                        Only) prior to the end of the staff member’s workday.

                 2.     A supervisor or manager must review the YA 1500 and forward it to
                        the superintendent or camp director for final review and approval.

                 3.     The supervisor or manager must ensure a copy of the YA 1500 is
                        provided to the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations, and
                        the original is placed in the youth’s case file.

                 4.     A superintendent or camp director may restrict a youth from
                        speaking a non-English language with other youth for a specified
                        extended period of time if the youth has repeatedly used the
                        language communication to endanger self or others. The restriction
                        must be documented on a YA 1500.

       B.        Bilingual staff who have been identified by OYA Human Resources Office
                 as fluent in languages in addition to English must be readily available to
                 facilitate communication between staff and youth (or youth families) who
                 are Limited English Proficient (LEP), non-English-speaking, or deaf or
                 hard or hearing.

                 See OYA policy I-D-2.1 Use of Language Services for interpreter and
                 translator guidelines.

Page 2 of 3                    II-E-2.4 English Plus - Youth (Facility)   Effective: 04/26/2024
       C.     Staff may only use youth as interpreters in unforeseeable emergencies
              while waiting for an authorized interpreter.

       D.     Facility rules and youth rights must be reviewed with LEP and non-
              English-speaking youth in the youth’s native language.

              Staff must provide youth contact information to seek assistance from the
              Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations.

       E.     Youth are encouraged to learn English while in OYA custody.

       F.     Questions related to this policy, its interpretation or development may be
              directed to the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3                II-E-2.4 English Plus - Youth (Facility)   Effective: 04/26/2024
