                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                      Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Individualized Services
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Case Management – 3.7              III-D-3.7 (10/21) 04/26/2024     Review:
                                       III-D-3.7 (10/19)                04/26/2026
                                       III-D-3.7 (08/17)
                                       III-D-3.7 (11/07)
                                       III-E-1.7 (01/96)
 Related             ORS 420A.010 Oregon Youth Authority, Creation and duties
 Standards           ORS 137.707 Mandatory minimum sentences for certain juvenile
 and                  offenders waived to adult court
 References:         OAR 416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC Youth in
                      Custody Releasing from OYA
                     JJIS form: OYA 3400 Individualized Services Authorization
                     OYA Contracted Service Provider Forms
                     Community Services Individualized Services Handbook
 Related             COM 416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC Youth
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                 _____________________
                                          Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff regarding youth access to
       community individualized services. OYA and county Intergovernmental
       Agreements (IGAs) and co-management agreements regarding use of
       individualized services funds are also addressed.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       DOC youth: A person in the legal custody of the Department of Corrections
       (DOC) and the physical custody of OYA.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA provides opportunities for youth reformation, including when youth are in
       the community. Specific state funds are allocated to provide intervention services
       for youth in the community. “Individualized Services” is a funding source
       designed for individual youth case planning.


Page 1 of 4                  III-D-3.7 Individualized Services                 Effective: 04/26/2024
       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. All youth must have equitable access to services or goods
       purchased through the use of Individualized Services funds.

       OYA has Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) with counties to work in
       partnership to allow for expenditure of Individualized Services funds for OYA and
       county adjudicated youth. Funds are managed at the local level between
       counties and OYA to make decisions about youth eligibility and using
       Individualized Services to support a youth’s case plan.

       The Community Services’ Individualized Services Handbook is available for OYA
       Community Services staff and counties when determining youth eligibility for
       specific services. The handbook is located on the OYA public website and the
       OYA intranet.

       Goals for using Individualized Services include:
              Increased use of evidence-based programs that follow best practice
              standards and enhance the quality of outcomes for youth.
              Reduction in
               Commitments to OYA and revocations of youth who can safely be
                managed in the community;
               The propensity of youth to commit crimes and to engage in antisocial
                behavior;
               Self-destructive behavior by youth served; and
               Youth lengths of stay in out-of-home placements.
              Increase in
                Public safety by providing appropriate services to youth in the community;
                Positive reformation;
                Educational participation by youth served;
                Youth wellness and cultural identity through connection to relevant
                 programs and supports;
                Youth skills to appropriately live in a community setting; and
                Family engagement in youth reformation planning and activities.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        Individualized Services eligibility:

                 1.     Youth who are adjudicated delinquent; and

                 2.     Youth in need of services that are case-plan driven which cannot
                        be funded through any other source (public or private) in any other
                        way; and

                 3.     Youth who have been determined to be at risk of -

Page 2 of 4                    III-D-3.7 Individualized Services        Effective: 04/26/2024
                    a)   Commitment to OYA substitute care (i.e., the youth is under
                         age 19) or to OYA close custody (i.e., the youth is under age
                         19 or under the age of 20 for crimes listed in ORS 137.707); or

                    b)   Recommitment/revocation to OYA close custody.

              4.    Youth in OYA close custody are eligible for Individualized Services
                    to prepare and support reentry 90 days prior to release and to
                    engage families.

              5.    DOC youth who are not more than 90 days post release from a
                    youth correctional facility. Exceptions may be granted by the
                    Community Services assistant director or designee.

       B.     Appropriate use of Individualized Services

              Services must:

              1.    Be community based and designed to purchase wraparound
                    services for youth on probation or parole that meet OYA funding
                    guidelines and budget constraints;

              2.    Support a holistic and developmental approach across case plan
                    domains (medical, social living skills, education, mental health,
                    alcohol and drug treatment, offense-specific, vocational, family and
                    transition);

              3.    Be case-plan driven and community based;

              4.    Be culturally and linguistically relevant, and meet gender specific
                    needs, including youth who identify as gender fluid;

              5.    Support positive youth outcomes and reduction in recidivism; and

              6.    Reflect a prudent expenditure of public funds and be within
                    acceptable community norms.

       C.     Process to access Individualized Services funds

              1.    Counties and OYA have established local processes to access
                    Individualized Services funds. Each request for funds for a county
                    adjudicated youth must be approved, at a minimum, by -

                    a)     An OYA field supervisor; and

                    b)     A juvenile department-designated representative.

              2.    Recommended process

                    A local committee representing community interests and resources
                    is recommended to review and approve the Individualized Services
                    referrals. At a minimum, a local committee must include an OYA
Page 3 of 4                III-D-3.7 Individualized Services          Effective: 04/26/2024
                    representative and a juvenile department representative. The
                    inclusion of other members improves the opportunity to consider
                    other local funding resources.

              3.    Other community partner representatives recommended for
                    participation in the local committee:

                    a)     Education representative;

                    b)     Mental health representative;

                    c)     Department of Human Services representative;

                    d)     Developmental Disability representative; or

                    e)     Other local youth-serving agencies.

              4.    For OYA youth, a detailed process for approving various services is
                    delineated in the Community Services Individualized Services
                    Handbook.

              5.    For DOC youth, a detailed process for accessing and approving
                    appropriate services is delineated in Community Services
                    procedure COM 416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC
                    Youth.

       D.     Exceptions

              If the identified service or good falls outside the guidelines in the
              Community Services Individualized Services Handbook, the field
              supervisor must submit an exception to the Community Services assistant
              director.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4                III-D-3.7 Individualized Services        Effective: 04/26/2024
