                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)
 Subject:
 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                           II-D-2.2 01/13                           Revision/Review:
 D: Health and Mental Health – 2.2                           10/10/2022    None
                                           II-D-2.2 10/10
                                           II-D-2.2 11/07
                                           II-D-2.2 10/05
 Related              OAR 416-070-0030 (QMHP and Treatment Services Supervisor
 Standards             Standards)
 and                  Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
 References:           Detention Facilities; Safety; Programming; Health and Mental
                       Health
                      National Commission on Correctional Health Care, Standards for
                       Health Services in Juvenile Detention and Confinement Facilities
                        Y-E-02 (Receiving Screening); Y-E-05 (Mental Health Screening
                        and Evaluation); Y-G-05 (Suicide Prevention Program)
                      OYA policy: I-D-3.9 (Staff Training)
                       I-E-1.0 (Director’s Notification and Report)
                       I-E-3.0 (Media Relations)
                       I-E-4.0 (Incident Reviews)
                       I-E-5.0 (Notification to Parents/Guardian)
                       II-A-2.0 (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA Facilities)
                       II-A-3.2 (Enhanced/Supplemental Interactive Supervision of
                       Youth)
                       II-B-1.1 (Physical Intervention in Facilities)
                       II-B-1.2 (Use of Time-out, Room-lock Other, Isolation, and Safety
                       Programs in OYA Facilities)
                      OYA forms: YA 4400 (Youth Visual Observation Log)
                       YA 4409 (JJIS Assessment Initial Mental Status Assessment)
                       YA 4413 (Youth Correctional Facility Brief Mental Health Status
                       Assessment)
                       YA 4414 (JJIS Assessment OYA Camp Suicide Pre-Screen
                       Worksheet)
                       YA 4411 (Suicide Prevention Protocols)
                       YA 4412 (YCF Mental Status Review)
                       YA 4439 (JJIS Document OYA Suicide Watch/Precautions)
                       YA 8410 (Rescue Kit Contents)
                       YA 4438 (JJIS Assessment Referral for Psychiatric/Psychological
                       Suicide Risk Evaluation)
                       YA 0024 (Administrative Incident Review Report)
                       YA 0025 (Critical Incident Review Report)
 Related              FAC II-D-2.2 (Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities)
 Procedures:          FAC I-E-4.0 (Youth Incident Report)


Page 1 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities        Effective: 10/10/2022
 Policy Owner:                                 Approved:
 Facility Services Assistant Director

                                               _______________________
                                               Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for the prevention of and response to youth
       suicides and nonsuicidal self-injurious behavior in OYA close-custody facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Intake: The admission of a youth to the close-custody system.

       Mental health practitioner: A qualified mental health professional (QMHP),
       psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner, psychiatrist, or psychologist.

       Nonsuicidal self-injurious behavior (NSIB): Intentionally injuring oneself in a
       manner that often results in damage to body tissue, but without any conscious
       suicidal intent.

       Qualified Mental Health Professional (QMHP): A person who provides mental
       health treatment services to youth in OYA facilities meets the criteria established
       in OAR 416-070-0030.
       Self-harm behavior: Self-inflicted behavior that intentionally causes physical
       harm to oneself, regardless of intent behind the behavior.

       Suicidal behavior: Suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicide.

       Suicidal ideation: Having thoughts, ideas, or ruminations about the possibility of
       ending one’s life.

       Suicidal intent: The youth’s level of commitment for carrying out their plan or
       expectation that the plan will result in death. Intent may vary from none to
       high/full.

       Suicidal plan: A suicidal plan involves identifying a specific method, and
       possibly a given time frame, in which an adolescent plans to kill themself.

       Suicide attempt: Incomplete, potentially lethal effort to complete suicide.

       Suicide contagion: Risk arising from exposure to suicidal behavior in family,
       peer group, or media.

       Youth Safety Review Committee (YSRC): A designated committee that reviews
       requests for youth Suicide Risk Level reductions and determines if a reduction is
       warranted. Members include (if positions are available) a program director, clinic
       staff, treatment services supervisor, all QMHPs, psychiatrist, psychologist,
       psychiatric mental nurse practitioner, and the youth’s living unit manager or
       designee. Membership of the ad hoc YSRC consists of at least three treatment

Page 2 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
       professionals, and must include the QMHP assessing the youth, the facility’s staff
       or contracted psychiatrist, psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner or
       psychologist (consultation by phone/video is acceptable), and Treatment
       Services supervisor (if applicable)/living unit manager/program director.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes youth suicide prevention is of paramount importance.
       Prevention includes identification, risk assessment, precautions towards reducing
       the risk of completed suicide, and other intervention to mitigate underlying mental
       health conditions for youth. Suicide risk screenings and assessments must be
       completed in accordance with clinical best practices, policy, and all related
       procedures.

       OYA strives to create respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive environments
       for youth and staff that are free from harassment, discrimination, and bias. Data
       shows that historically marginalized youth are disproportionately at risk for
       suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and NSIB. OYA is mindful and focused on
       youth needs and safety to prevent these incidents, particularly LGBTQ+ youth
       who present the highest risk for suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and NSIB.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Observation and identification of youth needing screening:

               1.      Any staff who becomes aware of a youth’s need for a suicide risk
                       screening or assessment must immediately notify the QMHP on
                       duty or Officer-of-the-Day (OD) if no QMHP is available.

               2.      All staff must engage with youth in an interactive manner to build
                       caring and supportive relationships as outlined in OYA policy II-A-
                       3.0 Interactive Supervision of Youth. This must include observation
                       of youth behavior for the following signs and symptoms:

                       a)      Suicidal or NSIB statements or behavior;

                       b)      New mood changes, anxiety, or agitation;

                       c)      An abrupt change in behavior or presentation;

                       d)      New, compounding, or chronic stressors;

                       e)      Statements of hopelessness; or

                       f)      Preparation for completion (e.g., giving things away; saying
                               goodbye).

       B.      Screening and Assessment of Suicide Risk and Nonsuicidal Self-
               injurious Behaviors (NSIB) Risk

               1.      Intake Suicide Risk/NSIB Risk Assessment:



Page 3 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                       a)      Staff must maintain constant supervision of all youth upon
                               admission to a facility awaiting completion of an agency
                               approved suicide risk/NSIB risk evaluation and assignment
                               of a Suicide Risk Level (SRL).

                       b)      A mental health practitioner must begin an agency approved
                               suicide risk/NSIB risk evaluation within one hour of a youth’s
                               presentation for admission to a facility. This includes initial
                               intake, parole violation intake, and any facility transfers.

                       c)      The mental health practitioner must assign the youth a SRL
                               based on the results of the assessment.

                       d)      The mental health practitioner must record the SRL in the
                               JJIS Population Group “OYA *Suicide Documentation.”

                       e)      The mental health practitioner must communicate with the
                               Unit Leadership Team (ULT) and verbally with unit staff that
                               will be immediately supervising the youth following the
                               evaluation to share the SRL, and other pertinent information
                               concerning youth safety and behavior.

                       f)      The mental health practitioner must enter the assessment in
                               the youth’s JJIS notebook using the appropriate form, OYA
                               4409 for new intakes and OYA 4413 for youth transferring,
                               on the day of the assessment by the end of the mental
                               health practitioner’s work shift.

               2.      Until the suicide risk/NSIB risk assessment is completed and a risk
                       level assigned, line of sight supervision must be maintained.

               3.      Ongoing Suicide Risk/NSIB Risk Assessment:

                       a)      A mental health practitioner must complete an agency
                               approved suicide risk/NSIB risk evaluation at least every 90
                               days for all youth on the standard risk level (SRL 5) and will
                               document the assessment in the youth’s JJIS notebook.

                       b)      All youth at an elevated risk level will be re-assessed as
                               specified by the risk level.

                       c)      Staff must refer youth to the QMHP for assessment as
                               needed.

                       d)      QMHP must follow the process outlined in paragraph 1
                               above.

               4.      Camp/transition facilities exception

                       a)      A designated camp staff member must ensure an OYA
                               Camp Suicide Pre-Screen Worksheet (YA 4414) is


Page 4 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                               completed on every initial youth admission to a camp facility
                               within one hour of the youth’s arrival.

                       b)      A QMHP must review the YA 4414 no later than 72 hours
                               after its completion.

                               The QMHP must also complete the agency approved suicide
                               risk/NSIB risk evaluation no later than 72 hours after the
                               youth’s arrival at the camp facility and follow the paragraphs
                               above for intake assessments.

               5.      Once an SRL is assigned by the mental health practitioner, only the
                       Youth Safety Review Committee (YSRC) or ad hoc group can
                       reduce the level. See the related facilitywide procedure (FAC II-D-
                       2.2) regarding the YSRC.

               6.      The QMHP must request all mental health information from the
                       most recent placement be forwarded to the QMHP within 24 hours
                       of the youth’s arrival at the facility.

               7.      An OYA Treatment Services supervisor must review agency
                       approved suicide risk/NSIB risk evaluations within seven days of
                       the assessment’s completion during a youth’s initial commitment or
                       parole revocation intake.

       C.      Suicide Risk Levels (SRLs)

               1.      Level 1: High Suicide Risk

                       Description: Youth who are at high risk of imminent suicidal attempt
                       or severe forms of NSIB. These youth are in a life-threatening crisis
                       and may manifest the following:

                       a)      Frequent, intense, enduring suicidal ideation with specific
                               plans;

                       b)      Committed a serious or potentially lethal suicidal behavior;

                       c)      Persistent, or escalating suicidal behaviors over a relatively
                               short period of time (e.g., within two to three weeks);

                       d)      Direct statements threatening to complete suicide;

                       e)      Serious depression, especially if co-occurring with a history
                               of impulsivity; profound hopelessness; fully intends to die;
                               impaired self-control;

                       f)      History of serious suicidal behavior, intentionality and
                               depression;

                       g)      Unresponsiveness to therapeutic interventions; or


Page 5 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                       h)      Command hallucinations directing youth to harm self.

               2.      Level 2: Moderate Risk

                       Description: Youth who are at moderate risk of imminent suicidal
                       behavior or attempts or NSIB. These youth may manifest the
                       following:

                       a)      Suicidal behaviors with low or no lethality (choking self with
                               hands; choking self with object wrapped but not tied around
                               neck; ingestion of non- or low-toxic substance; head-
                               banging);

                       b)      Moderately persistent self-harm behavior over a relatively
                               short period of time;

                       c)      Frequent, moderate, enduring suicidal ideation;

                       d)      Specific viable plans;

                       e)      Seriously or acutely depressed, with or without history of
                               impulsivity; some degree of hopelessness; modest to serious
                               history of depression;

                       f)      Ambivalent with regard to intentions to die; indirect, unclear
                               messages of threats to complete suicide; or

                       g)      Is willing to participate in therapeutic intervention.

               3.      Level 3: Elevated Risk

                       Description: Youth who are at low to moderate risk of imminent
                       suicidal behavior, attempts, or NSIB. These youth may manifest the
                       following:

                       a)      Some suicidal ideation with limited intensity and duration;

                       b)      Nonsuicidal self-injurious behaviors (scratching, picking,
                               carving, superficial cutting);

                       c)      Veiled or subtle threats of suicidal behavior;

                       d)      Experiencing current significant stressful circumstances or
                               life stressors, including transition;

                       e)      Some specific plans non-lethal plans;

                       f)      Some coping skill behavior;

                       g)      History of depression or history of successful management
                               of depression; or


Page 6 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities    Effective: 10/10/2022
                       h)     Is amenable to treatment and focuses attention to alternate
                              coping skills.
               4.      Level 4: Risk by History

                       Description: Youth who are at increased risk of becoming severely
                       depressed or who are at risk for nonsuicidal self-injurious behaviors
                       or suicidal ideation based upon history.

               5.      Level 5: Regular Risk

                       Description: Youth who are at regular or at an expected risk of
                       depression and suicide, given their close-custody situation.

       D.      Suicide risk precautions and interventions

               1.      Any staff may increase a youth’s supervision level pending official
                       reassessment by a mental health practitioner.

               2.      Youth assessed as high risk require one-to-one supervision as
                       outlined in OYA policy II-A-3.2 Enhanced/Supplemental Interactive
                       Supervision of Youth.

               3.      For youth on all other levels, mental health staff or YSRC must
                       determine and implement enhanced supervision needs deemed
                       clinically appropriate in accordance with OYA policy II-A-3.2
                       Enhanced/Supplemental Interactive Supervision of Youth.

               4.      Upon being assessed as high risk, the Treatment Services
                       supervisor or the supervising psychologist or designee, must review
                       the youth’s housing and appropriate level of care and placement.
                       Transfer to the Oregon State Hospital, Children’s Farm Home, or
                       MacLaren YCF will be determined on a case-by-case basis.

                       Removal from the living unit must only be used as an intervention
                       when all other interventions have been exhausted. Once initiated, it
                       must be time limited as much as possible.

               5.      Youth assessed as elevated, moderate, or high risk must have
                       safety precautions deemed clinically appropriate by a QMHP,
                       Treatment Services supervisor, supervising psychologist, or clinical
                       team staffing the youth’s case. These precautions must be
                       documented in JJIS on the OYA 4439.

               6.      Youth assessed as elevated, moderate, or high risk must have
                       face-to-face contact with a mental health practitioner, including
                       assessment/reassessment of risk using an agency approved risk
                       assessment, at the following frequency:

                       a)      Elevated risk youth: At least weekly; and

                       b)      Moderate and high risk youth: At least daily, or as
                               designated in JJIS on the OYA 4439.
Page 7 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
               7.      Youth assessed as elevated, moderate, or high risk must have an
                       open mental health domain in the JJIS case plan, with an active,
                       up-to-date goal and appropriate interventions to remediate risk for
                       suicide and NSIB. This plan must be reviewed as part of QMHP bi-
                       monthly supervision with the Treatment Services supervisor.

               8.      Youth assessed as having risk by history risk require at least
                       monthly face-to-face contact with a mental health practitioner
                       including assessment/reassessment of risk using an agency
                       approved risk assessment. These contacts must be documented in
                       the youth’s JJIS notebook.

               9.      Youth assessed as standard risk require at least quarterly face-to-
                       face contact with a mental health practitioner including
                       assessment/reassessment of risk using an agency approved risk
                       assessment. These contacts must be documented in the youth’s
                       JJIS notebook.

               10.     Youth at all risk levels must have:

                       a)      Access to medical and mental health treatment services that
                               are not hindered in any way;

                       b)      A daily minimum of one hour of exercise involving large-
                               muscle activity; and

                       c)      Those who have not completed school or attained a general
                               equivalency diploma (GED) must have access to educational
                               resources. If necessary, provisions may be made for
                               individualized educational tasks to be completed in living
                               units.

               11.     Each facility living unit must have a rescue kit kept in an area not
                       accessible to youth but readily accessible to all direct service staff.
                       Each kit must contain, at a minimum, items listed in YA 8410
                       (Rescue Kit Contents).

       E.      Youth Safety Review Committee (YSRC)

               1.      Once an SRL is assigned, only the YSRC may lower the risk level.

               2.      A risk level reduction may only be made following a review of a
                       youth’s current mental status.

               3.      Each facility must maintain a practice where all youth at SRLs of 3
                       and higher and youth with complex behavioral health needs are
                       reviewed by the YSRC. This review must occur on a weekly basis.

               4.      An ad-hoc YSRC (including at minimum; a psychologist, QMHP,
                       TSS) must meet daily when a youth is SRL-1 High Risk. This daily
                       meeting must ensure clinically appropriate precautions and


Page 8 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                       interventions are in place, review youth progress, daily assessment
                       and determine youth’s SRL.

               5.      The QMHP must record the risk level change in the JJIS Population
                       Group by switching risk level groups.

               6.      Assigned QMHP must distribute recommendations resulting from
                       all YSRC meetings to the youth’s living unit, campus operations,
                       and Health Services staff as appropriate.

       F.      Documenting Suicidal Behavior

               1.      The QMHP is responsible for documenting youth suicidal behavior
                       for youth in close custody.

               2.      All instances of known past and present suicidal behavior exhibited
                       by any youth in OYA custody must be documented in the JJIS
                       Population Group “OYA *Suicide Documentation”.

               3.      Documenting suicidal behavior during OYA custody

                       Each incident of suicide behavior exhibited while in OYA custody
                       must be documented in a Youth Incident Report (YIR) by the staff
                       who witnessed the behavior. Other staff who were involved in the
                       incident must update the YIR to document their involvement.

               4.      Documenting suicidal behavior prior to OYA custody

                       Documented or self-reported suicide behavior exhibited prior to
                       OYA custody must be entered in the JJIS Population Group – “OYA
                       *Suicide Documentation.” Each prior incident must be entered as a
                       unique subcategory with the dates of the incidents as the
                       subcategory start date. These subcategories may only be closed at
                       case closure.

       G.      Documenting Nonsuicidal Self-injurious Behaviors (NSIBs)

               1.      Documenting NSIBs during OYA custody

                       Each incident of nonsuicidal self-injurious behavior exhibited while
                       in OYA custody must be documented as such in a Youth Incident
                       Report (YIR) by the staff who witnessed the behavior. Other staff
                       who were involved in the incident must update the YIR to document
                       their involvement.

                       See facilitywide procedure FAC I-E-4.0 Youth Incident Report for
                       more information on YIRs.

               2.      Documenting NSIBs prior to OYA custody

                       a)      Documented or self-reported NSIBs exhibited prior to OYA
                               custody must be documented in the Initial Mental Status
Page 9 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                               Assessment (YA 4409) or Brief Mental Status Assessment
                               (YA 4413) if disclosed at time of intake or transfer.

                       b)      Documented or self-reported NSIBs exhibited prior to OYA
                               custody but discovered or disclosed during the course of
                               OYA custody must be documented in a progress note in
                               JJIS at the time of discovery or disclosure.

       H.      Communication Regarding the Status of Potentially Suicidal Youth
               and NSIB Youth

               1.      Each facility must have a local operating protocol governing
                       communication between mental health treatment staff, living unit
                       personnel, education staff, and facility administrators regarding the
                       status of potentially suicidal and NSIB youth.

                       a)      All communication by QMHPs to living unit managers (or
                               designated staff) regarding SRLs and housing restrictions;
                               and NSIB risk and safety restrictions, must be documented
                               in JJIS.

                               Local operating protocols must identify ways to communicate
                               this information on a daily basis to necessary individuals
                               such as the QMHP, supervising psychologist, clinic, program
                               director, and living unit manager.

                       b)      Information regarding suicide and NSIB interventions may be
                               shared with staff on a need-to-know basis, with the
                               determination made based on ensuring youth safety.

               2.      A reasonable effort must be made to notify family regarding a
                       youth’s SRL and resulting treatment and intervention.

               3.      For youth transitioning from close-custody to the community on
                       elevated risk or higher, the QMHP must notify and share the most
                       recent copy of the YA 4439 with the youth’s JPPO and the
                       behavioral health coordinator prior to transition.

       I.      Notification to the Director’s Office

               Suicide attempts that include taking a youth off site for emergency medical
               care, or are potentially lethal, and completed suicides are considered
               significant incidents.

               Staff must follow OYA policy I-E-1.0 Director’s Incident Notification and
               Report when notifying the Director’s Office of a significant incident.

       J.      Reducing Suicide Contagion after a Completed Suicide.

               1.      If a completed youth suicide occurs, staff must make a brief
                       announcement to youth in each living unit. The deceased youth’s
                       name and living unit will be announced.
Page 10 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                       Also announced must be a description of how a youth may arrange
                       to meet with an available staff or QMHP to talk about the completed
                       suicide. Youth may only meet individually with staff or QMHPs to
                       talk about the incident.

               2.      QMHPs, in collaboration with supervisory and contracted mental
                       health providers and living unit managers (or designees), must
                       identify youth who are deemed vulnerable, and schedule individual
                       appointments. Triage referrals will be made to consulting mental
                       health professionals.

               3.      Religious or spiritual ceremonies must be scheduled on an
                       individual basis as opposed to group memorials or group events.
                       Religious staff or volunteers must avoid statements in group
                       settings that praise or honor the youth who completed the suicide
                       or refer to the youth as now “in a better place” (or similar type of
                       statements). Reduce conversations that dramatize, glorify, or give
                       undue attention to the completed suicide or the individual who
                       completed suicide. Steer conversations in the direction of clarifying
                       better coping strategies.

               4.      Staff must not make public statements to the media about the
                       completed suicide. Only a designated OYA spokesperson may
                       make public comments. See OYA policy I-E-3.0 Media Relations.

       K.      Reducing NSIB Contagion

               QMHPs, in collaboration with supervisory and contracted mental health
               providers and living unit managers (or designees), must identify youth who
               are deemed at risk, and schedule individual appointments for further
               assessment.

       L.      Staff Training

               1.      All staff who work directly with youth or in an OYA facility must
                       complete an initial suicide prevention/NSIB training course through
                       the OYA Training Academy.

                       The training course must include, but not be limited to, information
                       about:

                       a)      Stressors associated with suicidal behavior or NSIBs in
                               juvenile correctional facilities;

                       b)      Behavior and appearance indicators that require immediate
                               referral for mental health intervention and care;
                       c)      Suicide precaution levels;

                       d)      Enhanced monitoring and supervision requirements;

                       e)      Positive intervention and management strategies to use with
                               potentially suicidal youth in living units;
Page 11 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
                       f)      The referral process to obtain an immediate mental health
                               intervention for a suicidal youth;

                       g)      Steps to follow if a youth attempts or completes suicide; and

                       h)      Skill development and competency in using the Rescue Kit
                               and its contents.

               2.      In addition to the initial training, all facility staff and direct service
                       staff must complete a suicide prevention course as part of required
                       annual update training.

               3.      Mental health practitioners must additionally complete suicide
                       prevention, crisis intervention, screening and assessment, and
                       lethal means training as provided or authorized by OYA.

M.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

       Each OYA facility must have a written local operating protocol governing
       communication between mental health treatment staff, living unit staff, education
       staff, and facility administrators regarding the status of potentially suicidal and
       NSIB youth, as indicated in section IV.H. (above).




Page 12 of 12 II-D-2.2 Suicide Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities   Effective: 10/10/2022
