                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 OYA Staff Wellness
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:      Effective Date:     Date of Last
 D: Personnel Management – 1.6             N/A              01/25/2018          Review:
                                                                                07/25/2024
 Related             Executive Order 17-01 State Agency Employee Wellness
 Standards           DAS Chief Human Resources Office policy: 50-010-06 Employee
 and                   Health and Wellness
 References:
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                             Approved:

 Human Resources Administrator
                                           ________________________
                                           Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes standards for OYA staff worksite wellness programs and
       educational opportunities. A Staff Wellness Committee is responsible for
       assessing wellness needs and implements programs to foster employee
       behavior changes through wellness education, creating healthier environments,
       and providing employees with tools to make informed-decisions impacting
       personal well-being. The policy complies with statewide DAS policy 50-010-06
       Employee Health and Wellness.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA is committed to promoting and supporting staff health and wellness. Staff
       are OYA’s most valuable resource. Healthy, empowered, and engaged staff are
       integral to the effective delivery of agency services.

       OYA has an agencywide Staff Wellness Committee established by charter that
       helps carry out initiatives that promote staff health and wellness.




Page 1 of 3                    I-D-1.6 OYA Staff Wellness                     Effective: 01/25/2018
IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA Staff Wellness Committee

              1.     Membership

                     The OYA Staff Wellness Committee must be composed of at least
                     one representative each from SEIU, AFSCME, Facility Services,
                     Community Services, and Central Office. At least one member will
                     be a management staff member.

              2.     Committee members attending OYA Staff Wellness Committee
                     meetings must be compensated at their regular hourly wage.

              3.     The committee must have a charter approved by the OYA Cabinet.

              4.     The committee will promote health and wellness by:

                     a)     Providing educational information and health promotion
                            topics;

                     b)     Encouraging local activities where interest and resources
                            exist;

                     c)     Providing accessibility of health promotion elements to all
                            staff; and

                     d)     Promoting staff awareness and use of existing benefits.

       B.     The OYA Staff Wellness Committee must provide the core components of
              wellness topics available to all work sites when available (nutrition, fitness,
              stress management, and financial health).

              Additional promotion topics may include, but are not limited to, injury
              prevention, tobacco cessation, substance abuse, cancer
              awareness/prevention, asthma/respiratory issues, chronic conditions
              (heart disease, diabetes, hypertension), sleep deprivation, and acute
              diseases (water and food borne illness).

       C.     Activities

              1.     Fitness activities such as walking or jogging during unpaid break
                     times, and before or after work are encouraged.

              2.     Local work sites may promote monthly worksite wellness
                     campaigns (e.g., bike to work, healthy competitions/challenges,
                     mental health awareness, heart or tobacco awareness).

              3.     Wellness activities that require the use of a conference room (e.g.,
                     yoga, aerobics, stretching) must be approved through the standard
                     process. Business meetings take priority when there are scheduling
                     conflicts.
Page 2 of 3                    I-D-1.6 OYA Staff Wellness                 Effective: 01/25/2018
              4.   Wellness activities must not interfere with normal operations.
                   Activities must be voluntary, and not create safety risks for
                   participants or others.

              5.   Competitions or challenges that are unsafe or encourage unhealthy
                   practices are discouraged.

              6.   Wellness activities must not be used by event sponsors, hosts, or
                   attendees to sell, promote, or solicit products or services.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3                 I-D-1.6 OYA Staff Wellness               Effective: 01/25/2018
