                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                       Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
 F: Justice – 3.0                       II-F-3.0 (05/06) 07/27/2009     Review:
                                        II-F-3.0 (09/05)                01/12/2025
 Related           OAR Chapter 416 Division 440 (Youth in Custody Mail)
 Standards         OAR Chapter 416, Division 20 (Youth in Custody Grievance
 and                Process)
 References:       Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
                    Detention Facilities; Programming, Justice
                   American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                    Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-3A-07 (Mail); 4-JCF-3A-08
                    (Postage); 4-JCF-3A-09 (Uncensored Mail); 4-JCF-3A-10
                    (Forwarding Mail); 4-JCF-3A-11 (Privileged Mail); 4-JCF-3A-12
                    (Mail Delivery); 4-JCF-3A-13 (Receipts); 4-JCF-3A-14
                    (Publications)
                   OYA policy: II-A-2.0 (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in
                    OYA Facilities)
                    II-F-1.0 (Youth Rights)
                    II-F-1.1 (Youth Grievance Procedure)
                   OYA form: YA 4205 (Rejection of Youth Correspondence)
                    YA 2200 (OYA General Receipt)
                   Attachments: A (Frequently Asked Questions)
                    B (Sample Correspondence Approval Letter)
 Related           None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                  Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director           ________________________
                                                Colette S. Peters, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff when processing youth mail within
       OYA facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Immediate Family Member: Legal spouse, domestic partner, parent, guardian,
       sibling, child, aunt, uncle, grandchildren and grandparents, including foster, in-
       law, and step relationships. Immediate family also includes the caregiver of the
       youth’s minor child(ren).

Page 1 of 11                II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities                     Effective: 07/27/09
       Inspection: To examine or view, including reading or photocopying.

       Youth correspondence: Correspondence and packages designated official or
       personal.

       (a)     Official correspondence is mail sent to or received from officials of the
               Oregon Youth Authority, any confining or community supervising authority,
               the Governor, the Secretary of State, any state or federal legislator,
               administrators of grievance systems, foreign embassy consulates,
               attorneys, courts, court officials, or any agency that provides legal services
               to a youth, including legal aid offices.

       (b)     Personal correspondence is all other mail.

       Prohibited mail: Any material that threatens or is detrimental to the general
       public, or facility/program security, safety, or order, including but not limited to:

       (a)     Incoming mail to a confined youth from a person confined in a
               correctional, penal, or detention institution, unless prior written
               authorization is received from the superintendent/camp director or
               designee;

       (b)     Mail to or from identified victims, including through third parties, unless
               prior written authorization is received from the superintendent/camp
               director or designee;

       (c)     Mail that contains escape plans, plans to commit a criminal act or to
               violate facility rules, or that constitutes a crime in or of itself or is used in
               the furtherance of illegal activity;

       (d)     Sexually explicit material which by its nature or content poses a threat or
               is detrimental to the security, safety, or order of the facility or program, or
               facilitates criminal activity;

       (e)     Mail sent or received on behalf of another youth or person in custody;

       (f)     Contraband items, including but not limited to weapons or explosives,
               medications, electronic items, negotiable instruments, money, or
               photographs with chemical substances on the back of the photograph;

       (g)     Unauthorized business transactions, such as promotions given in
               exchange for purchase or subscription, audio or book clubs, requests or
               applications for credit cards, credit or deferred billing transactions;

       (h)     Publications deemed contraband, detrimental to a youth’s reformation, or
               publications sent other than directly from a publisher or commercial
               distributor; and

       (i)     Attachments or enclosures that are glued, taped or otherwise affixed to
               the envelope or package or its contents.



Page 2 of 11             II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities                  Effective: 07/27/09
III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes the importance of interaction between youth in its custody and
       members of the community, including family and friends. Such access allows
       youth to maintain contact with their community, and is essential for effective
       community reintegration planning. OYA seeks to balance the positive effects of
       community contact with the responsibilities and values of the agency’s mission.

       Youth are permitted to correspond as long as it poses no threat to the safety,
       security, and order of the facility, public officials, or the general public, and is not
       being used in the furtherance of illegal activities. Staff will adhere to OYA policy
       and rule when placing limitations on a youth’s mail privileges.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Youth correspondence is designated official or personal.

       B.      All incoming and outgoing mail is subject to inspection.

       C.      OYA will provide the equivalent of three stamps per week for youth who
               have no financial resources to maintain ties to the community, including
               letters to family, friends, or other persons who are involved in the youth’s
               life. Otherwise, no limits will be placed on the amount of official or
               personal correspondence a youth sends or receives.

       D.      Confined Youth-to-Youth/Person in Custody Correspondence

               Confined OYA youth may not receive mail from another confined youth or
               person in custody without authorization from the superintendent/camp
               director or designee. This includes youth or persons confined in any
               penal, correctional, or detention institution.

               1.     Unauthorized OYA facility youth intercampus correspondence
                      (notes, letters, etc.) is prohibited.

               2.     Unauthorized OYA interfacility youth correspondence is prohibited.

               3.     The facility superintendent/camp director or designee may
                      authorize correspondence between an OYA youth and a youth
                      confined in the same facility, or a person confined in a correctional,
                      penal, or detention institution, if the youth/person are immediate
                      family members or their correspondence is deemed to have an
                      integral role in youth reformation.

                      When a confined person is not in OYA custody, the equivalent of
                      the superintendent/warden of that institution must also approve of
                      the confined youth-to-person-in-custody correspondence.

                      a)        Approved correspondence between confined OYA youth
                                must be documented in JJIS as approved contacts.



Page 3 of 11               II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities              Effective: 07/27/09
                       b)        Approved correspondence between confined OYA youth and
                                 confined persons not in OYA custody must be documented
                                 in writing. See Attachment B (Sample Correspondence
                                 Approval Letter) for an example of such document.

               4.      Designated staff must inspect approved youth- to-person-in-
                       custody correspondence.

       E.      All mail will:

               1.      Be placed in an envelope or appropriate packaging acceptable by
                       the official mail carrier.

               2.    Include a sending and return address on the envelope or package.

                       a)        The youth’s return address will reflect the youth’s current
                                 placement, including the name of the facility.

                       b)        Mail sent from or to youth without a sending or return
                                 address may be rejected.

                                 (1)     Outgoing mail sent from a youth without the proper
                                         return address will be returned to the youth.

                                 (2)     Incoming mail without a return address may be
                                         marked “Return to Sender” and returned to the
                                         delivering U.S. Postal Service or mail carrier, or
                                         referred to the superintendent/camp director for
                                         disposition.

               3.      Personal correspondence must be sent using U.S. postage via the
                       appropriate mail carrier. Personal correspondence may not be sent
                       using the state’s shuttle mail system or a facility’s internal mail
                       system.

               4.      Official correspondence may be sent through the facility’s internal
                       delivery system or the state shuttle mail system when the intended
                       recipient can be accessed through those systems. No postage is
                       required for this correspondence.

                       Official correspondence sent to persons not accessible through
                       these systems must be sent with proper postage via the
                       appropriate mail carrier.

               5.    When youth-to-person-in-custody correspondence is authorized,
                     staff may choose to oversee the delivery of the correspondence.

               6.    Mail received for youth marked “postage due” by the mail carrier may
                     be returned to the sender.

       F.      Incoming and outgoing mail will not be held for more than 24 hours and
               packages for more than 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
Page 4 of 11                II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities               Effective: 07/27/09
               If mail dispatch or delivery is delayed, youth must be notified of the delay
               and reason for delay.

       G.      Youth may not send or receive mail on behalf of another youth.

       H.      Correspondence Inspection

               1.     Personal correspondence: A youth’s incoming and outgoing
                      personal mail may be opened and inspected only by designated
                      staff.

               2.     Official correspondence

                      a)        A youth’s incoming official correspondence will remain
                                sealed or inspected for contraband by designated staff only
                                in the presence of the youth, unless waived in writing, or in
                                circumstances which may indicate contamination.

                      b)        A youth’s outgoing official correspondence may be inspected
                                for contraband by designated staff in the presence of the
                                youth before it is sealed.

               3.     Only designated staff may inspect personal correspondence for
                      indicators of prohibited or illegal activity (e.g., escape plans, threats
                      to facility or community safety or security).

                      a)        If such activity is suspected, staff must forward the mail to
                                the youth’s living unit manager, or designee, for further
                                inspection.

                      b)        The living unit manager, or designee, will recommend the
                                mail for delivery or rejection.

               4.     Search Process

                      a)        At least two designated staff will be present during incoming
                                correspondence contraband inspections.

                      b)        Staff will wear disposable gloves while performing
                                contraband inspections.

                      c)        The envelope/package and its contents will be inspected.

                      d)        Designated inspecting staff must adhere to professional
                                standards by not divulging personal information they may
                                glean while inspecting a youth’s correspondence,
                                notwithstanding information that constitutes prohibited mail.

                      e)        Designated inspecting staff must protect a youth’s attorney-
                                client privilege when inspecting mail between a youth and an
                                attorney or agency that provides legal services by not
                                reading or photocopying the document.
Page 5 of 11               II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities               Effective: 07/27/09
               5.    If contraband is found, it will be removed and documented in
                     compliance with OYA policy II-A-2.0 (Confiscating Contraband in
                     Close Custody Facilities).

                     a)        The envelope/package addressed to the youth will be
                               stamped “Contraband Removed,” re-sealed, and delivered to
                               the youth.

                     b)        Currency, money orders, or checks received will be removed
                               and processed according to agency accounting practice.

                               1)      Staff must complete an OYA General Receipt
                                       (YA 2200) indicating the amount of money received
                                       and from whom.

                               2)      The youth must receive a copy of the receipt.

                               3)      The youth’s trust fund account must be credited the
                                       amount indicated on the receipt.

       I.      Mail Rejection

               1.    Only the superintendent/camp director or program director may
                     reject a youth’s mail.

                     Youth mail may only be rejected if it is determined to be “prohibited
                     mail” as defined in section II of this policy and
                     OAR 416-440-0015.

               2.    Both the sender and intended recipient must be notified within five
                     business days via OYA form YA 4205 when mail is rejected.

                     The notification will include information about an appeal process
                     should the sender or intended recipient disagree with the decision
                     to reject mail.

                     Exception: A YA 4205 will not be mailed to senders of promotions
                     in exchange for purchase or subscription, audio or book clubs,
                     requests or applications for credit cards, or credit or deferred billing
                     transactions (bulk mail).

               3.    Both youths’ living unit managers (or designees) will receive a copy
                     of the YA 4205 when OYA youth-to-youth mail is rejected.

               4.    The youth’s Juvenile Parole/Probation Officer (JPPO) will be
                     notified if a significant mail violation occurs.

               5.    Staff will contact law enforcement when mail is considered
                     dangerous, or may possibly constitute a crime or be used in
                     furtherance of illegal activity.

       J.      Undeliverable mail
Page 6 of 11              II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities             Effective: 07/27/09
               When an address is available for a youth who has been transferred to
               another facility or released, all letters and packages will be promptly
               forwarded, unopened to the youth.

               1.     If no address is available, the letter or package will be marked “Not
                      at this address” and returned, unopened, to the post office or
                      delivering mail carrier.

               2.     If such mail has been previously opened by a facility and forwarded
                      to the youth in care of OYA, staff will place the mail in an envelope,
                      include a copy of the YA 4205 noting the condition of mail upon
                      receipt, and forward the mail to the youth.

       K.      Training

               Facilities will implement this OYA policy and ensure their staff are trained
               to it.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 7 of 11              II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities            Effective: 07/27/09
Attachment A: Frequently Asked Questions

1.     What is youth mail?

       Mail includes correspondence and packages sent or received by youth in OYA
       custody. Mail does not lose its distinction because it has been opened and read,
       or because it does not contain postage. For example, letters dropped off at an
       OYA facility by family or friends for an OYA youth (if authorized) constitutes mail,
       as do letters read by a youth and maintained in his/her personal items.

2.     How is youth mail protected?

       It is the agency’s intent to protect a youth’s right to send and receive mail that is
       not specified as “prohibited mail.” Further, only specific people within OYA are
       allowed to inspect youth mail. (See question #6 for a description of staff
       authorized to inspect youth mail.)

       The OYA policy defines the circumstances under which a youth’s mail may be
       inspected and who can inspect it to make a decision if the mail should be
       rejected. Such a decision will not be made by individual staff, but will follow
       agency direction and local process.

3.     What kinds of mail are prohibited?

       Any material that threatens or is detrimental to security, safety, or order within a
       facility is prohibited, including but not limited to:

            Mail with escape plans, plans to commit a criminal act or to violate facility
             rules, or the mail constitutes a crime in and of itself.

            Sexually explicit material which by its nature or content poses a threat or
             is detrimental to the security, safety, or order of the facility or program;

            Contraband items including weapons or explosives, medications,
             electronic items, negotiable instruments, money, or photographs with
             chemical substances on the back of the photograph;

            Incoming mail from a youth confined in a correctional, penal, or detention
             institution. This includes mail between youth housed in OYA facilities, or
             mail between youth in the same OYA facility that has not been approved
             by the superintendent/camp director or designee.

            Mail to or from identified victims, including through third parties, unless
             prior written authorization is received from the superintendent/camp
             director or designee.

            Unauthorized business transactions such as promotions, audio or book
             clubs, applications for credit cards;

            Publications deemed contraband, detrimental to a youth’s reformation, or
             publications sent other than directly from a publisher or commercial
             distributor; and

Page 8 of 11            II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities               Effective: 07/27/09
Attachment A: Frequently Asked Questions

            Attachments or enclosures that are affixed to the envelope or its contents.

4.     What about gang writing, gang symbols, or gang-related pictures?

       OYA staff should be able to clearly identify gang-related material and identify
       safety/security issues related to that piece of mail. Gang-related mail may be
       rejected because it meets the specifications within prohibited mail.

       However, if staff believe that a specific piece of mail falls within this policy, it
       should be referred to the appropriate staff for determination if it will be rejected.
       In addition, OYA’s Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations can help staff
       determine whether the material is truly gang-related.

5.     What type of notice is required if a youth’s mail is rejected?

       Both the sender and the intended recipient must be notified of the rejection. Use
       OYA form YA 4205 (Rejection of Youth Correspondence).

6.     Who can read youth mail?

       Only designated OYA staff can inspect youth mail. Inspection may include
       examining, viewing, reading, or photocopying.

           For youth placed within OYA facilities: Only those staff who have been
           assigned the duty of inspecting youth mail.

           For youth placed in the community: The local supervisor/manager, or specific
           designee.

       If designated OYA facility staff suspect a piece of mail is prohibited, the staff
       should refer the piece of mail to the living unit manager (or designee) who will
       help decide if the piece of mail will be rejected. Only the superintendent/camp
       director or program director may reject youth mail.

7.     Can we edit a youth’s mail?

       OYA does not edit youth mail. OYA does restrict youth mail as described in the
       policy.

8.     What about youth placed under supervision within the community?

       OYA contracted residential treatment providers and foster homes are expected to
       develop policy and procedure reflective of the OYA standard.

       Youth placed on parole/probation typically must comply with “do not contact”
       orders. Mail is a form of contact between youth. Mail sent to or from youth in
       violation of such orders may be rejected. Both the sender and intended recipient
       must be notified of the rejection. Use OYA form YA 4205 (Rejection of Youth
       Correspondence).


Page 9 of 11            II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities                Effective: 07/27/09
Attachment A: Frequently Asked Questions
       To assist OYA staff and service providers to enforce such orders, OYA policy
       requires youth mail contain both a sending and a return address. Youth are also
       prohibited from sending or receiving mail on behalf of another person.

9.     Can OYA place restrictions on the persons with whom a youth may
       correspond?

       Court orders or legal agreements may prohibit a youth from corresponding with
       certain individuals. Staff and service providers are required to enforce such
       limitations.

       OAR 416 Division 440 (Youth in Custody Mail) restricts an OYA youth from
       receiving mail from a person confined in a correctional, penal, or detention
       institution. However, exceptions may be made for immediate family members, or
       if their correspondence is deemed to have an integral role in youth reformation.

       OAR 416 Division 440 (Youth in Custody Mail) also restricts an OYA youth from
       corresponding with identified victims, unless approved by the
       superintendent/camp director or designee.

10.    If OYA provides postage, can OYA further restrict youth correspondence?

       This is not a valid reason to restrict a youth’s right to correspond with friends,
       family, or community members outside of current policy.

11.    Can youth use the state shuttle mail or a facility’s internal mail system to
       send personal correspondence?

       No. Personal correspondence must be sent using proper postage via the
       appropriate mail carrier.




Page 10 of 11           II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities               Effective: 07/27/09
Attachment B: Sample Correspondence Approval Letter
USE YOUR OFFICIAL FACILITY OR OYA LETTERHEAD
Enclose self-addressed envelope



Date:
To whom it may concern
Re: Correspondence Privileges


         Our youth in custody                                     Your person in custody


                JJIS#                                             ID# (if known) / Location
The above-named youth in our custody requests correspondence privileges with
your person in custody. Our records confirm the relationship between the two is
as follows:
      Immediate family                  Relationship:
      members
      Correspondence is deemed to have an integral role in youth reformation
      Reason:

If approved, it is expected the letters will comply with the rules and regulations of
both facilities and be in accordance with Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter
416, Division 440 (Youth in Custody (YIC) Mail), and Oregon Youth Authority
policy II-F-3.0 (Youth Mail in OYA Facilities).
   “A confined OYA YIC may be permitted to correspond with a person confined in another
   correctional, penal, or detention institution if the YIC and person are immediate family
   members or their correspondence is deemed to have an integral role in the YIC’s
   reformation. Confined person mail must be inspected by designated staff. The
   superintendent/camp director or designee must approve of the confined person
   correspondence prior to its occurrence. When one of the confined persons is not in OYA
   custody, the equivalent of the superintendent/warden of that institution must also approve
   of the confined person’s correspondence.”
Thank you for your consideration in this matter.

Sincerely,




 Approved correspondence privilege              Disapproved correspondence
  privilege

__________________________________                      ___________________
Signature of Superintendent/Warden                      Date signed
Page 11 of 11             II-F-3.0 Youth Mail in OYA Facilities                           Effective:
07/27/09
