                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation
 Section – Policy Number:                        Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                       Revision:
 A: General Administration – 9.0             I-A-9.0 (3/20) 06/30/2021
                                                                           06/30/2025
                                             I-A-9.0 (9/11)
                                             I-A-9.0 (3/08)
 Related             OAR 416, Division 420 (OYA Facility Access, Tours, and YIC
 Standards            Visitation)
 and                 Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
 References:          Detention Facilities; Programming
                     American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                      Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-4C-42 (Parental Notification)
                     OYA Multidisciplinary Team Standards
                     OYA policy: 0-2.2 (Relationship with Youth and their Families)
                      I-A-11.0 (Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and Case
                      Planning)
                      I-E-2.1 (Public Records Requests for Agency Records)
                      I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and Records)
                      II-D-1.4 (Medication Management in OYA Facilities)
                      II-E-1.0 (Notification to Parents/Guardians)
                      II-E-2.5 (Visits with Youth)
                      II-F-3.0 (Youth Mail in Close-custody Facilities)
                      II-F-3.4 (Youth Use of Telephones)
                      II-E-2.4 (English Plus – Youth [Facility])
                      III-A-2.2 (English Plus - Youth [Community])
                      III-B-2.0 (New Commitments to OYA Legal Custody)
                      III-D-3.0 (Medication Management in Substitute Care)
                     OYA forms: YA 0055 (Authorization for Release of Information)
                     OYA Top Things for Families to Know brochures:
                      English – Facilities English - Community
                      Spanish – Facilities Spanish - Community
                      Family Guide to Intake at MacLaren
                      Family Guide to Oak Creek
 Related             COM III-B-2.0 (New Commitments to OYA Legal Custody)
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                   Approved:

 Assistant Director Development
 Services                                        _______________________
                                                 Joseph O’Leary, Director



Page 1 of 6    I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation     Effective: 06/30/2021
I.      PURPOSE:
        This policy establishes uniform standards of practice throughout OYA regarding
        family involvement in youth reformation.

II.     POLICY DEFINITIONS:

        Family: Includes the biological or legal parents, siblings, child, other relatives,
        foster parents, legal guardians, spouse, domestic partner, caregivers and other
        primary relatives to a youth whether by blood, adoption, legal, or social
        relationships. Family also includes any person (other than an OYA employee)
        identified by the youth as important who provides formal or informal support and
        whose positive involvement helps sustain the youth’s reformation process.

        Multidisciplinary Team (MDT): A team of individuals who work collaboratively to
        develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan that is culturally
        competent and gender-specific for each youth committed to the Oregon Youth
        Authority (OYA). The MDT is based on a core team membership consisting of the
        youth, OYA primary case manager, placement representative, QMHP
        (facility)/treatment provider (community), tribal representative (for youth enrolled
        in one of Oregon’s federally recognized tribes) and the parents/guardians.
        Additional team members are fluid and are identified by the core team based on
        the youth’s Risk Needs Assessment, identified criminogenic needs and
        placement.

        Parent/Guardian: One who nurtures, raises, or is legally responsible for the care
        and management of a minor.

        Published information: Low-sensitive information. Information that is not
        protected from disclosure, that if disclosed will not jeopardize the privacy or
        security of agency employees, clients and partners. This includes information
        regularly made available to the public through electronic, verbal or hard copy
        media.

III.    POLICY:

        OYA’s mission is to protect the public and reduce crime by holding youth
        accountable and providing opportunities for reformation in safe environments.
        Family involvement in a youth’s reformation activities, including assessment,
        case planning, and treatment, is vital. Youth families include the youth’s parents,
        guardians, and other relatives and supportive people whose positive involvement
        help sustain the youth’s positive development process.

        Successful outcomes and the reduction of youth recidivism are often affected by
        the degree of family involvement in a youth’s treatment. It is particularly effective
        when families address criminogenic risk factors that increase a youth’s risk to re-
        offend, and reinforce new behaviors and skills to assist in the youth’s positive
        development. Returning youth to safe environments in the community and
        reinforcing their newly-acquired skills creates safer communities.

        It is OYA’s policy to encourage, solicit, and facilitate family involvement in each
        youth’s case planning, supervision, and treatment. Parents and guardians are
        included in a youth’s reformation unless they pose a threat to the youth’s safety
Page 2 of 6    I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation   Effective: 06/30/2021
        or have a debilitating impact on a youth’s reformation. Other family members
        may be included in the youth’s reformation as long as they contribute toward the
        process.

        Additionally, OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency
        priority and initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and
        inclusive environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment,
        discrimination, and bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are
        disproportionately represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only
        one part of that system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and
        systemic inequities it perpetuates. OYA prioritizes culturally relevant and
        culturally appropriate services to youth and their families to optimize positive
        outcomes and reduce these inequities.

        Staff are encouraged to listen to and learn from families about any cultural
        considerations to be included when developing each youth’s case plan and
        treatment program. Staff will take specific steps to collaborate with families to
        ensure they participate and are included in their youth’s reformation.

IV.     GENERAL STANDARDS:

        A.     Sharing Information

               1.      Staff must share published information with youth families upon
                       request.

               2.      Information pertinent to the youth’s case plan, reports and other
                       materials regarding the youth’s case history and prognosis may be
                       shared if:

                       a)      The youth has signed a release of information form
                               YA 0055 (Authorization for Release of Information); or

                       b)      The youth is under 18 years old and the staff is sharing the
                               information with the youth’s parent/guardian and the sharing
                               of information is of benefit to the youth’s reformation.

                               If the youth is uncomfortable sharing this information with a
                               parent or guardian, staff will help the youth and family
                               develop a plan to address the concerns.

               3.      Medical information (for youth age 15 and older), and substance
                       abuse and mental health clinical information (for youth age 14 and
                       older) is generally not disclosable without the youth’s consent, but
                       may be shared with a parent/guardian pursuant to Oregon laws by
                       the treatment provider.

                       Staff must refer to Health Services or Public Policy/Government
                       Relations staff for clarity if a parent or guardian requests such
                       information and the youth has not signed a release of information.

        B.     Orientation

Page 3 of 6    I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation   Effective: 06/30/2021
              1.      Parents and guardians will be mailed a parent orientation packet
                      when a youth is placed in OYA custody. The orientation information
                      will be provided in the parent/guardian’s preferred non-English
                      language, if known and available.

                      a)      For youth placed in a community setting, parent orientation
                              packets must be mailed immediately upon the assignment of
                              a JPPO by the field office where the JPPO is assigned.

                      b)      For youth placed in a close-custody facility, the facility staff
                              must mail parent orientation packets immediately upon the
                              youth’s intake into MacLaren YCF or Oak Creek YCF.

              2.      Parent orientation packets must include at least the following:

                      a)      General information about OYA;

                      b)      Information on how to report abuse;

                      c)      Information concerning the grievance process;

                      d)      Pertinent OYA contact information;

                      e)      Information on language and cultural services; and

                      f)      Family Guide to Intake at MacLaren; or Family Guide to Oak
                              Creek for youth committed to a close-custody facility.


                      Most of this information is contained in the “Youth in the
                      Community: Top Things for Families to Know” and “Youth in Close
                      Custody: Top Things for Families to Know documents.

              3.      The JPPO (community placement youth) and case coordinator
                      (facility youth) must discuss the information contained in the parent
                      orientation packet with the parents and guardians prior to the initial
                      Multidisciplinary Team (MDT) meeting.

              4.      If a youth subsequently transfers to another OYA facility, facility
                      staff must mail parents/guardians orientation packets specific to the
                      subsequent facility upon the youth’s arrival.

        C.    Intake Assessment

              1.      Staff must contact and interview parents/guardians to complete the
                      OYA Risk/Needs Assessment.

              2.      Staff must encourage parents/guardians to participate in the youth’s
                      assessment.

              3.      Staff must explain parents/guardians and staff roles and
                      responsibilities.

Page 4 of 6   I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation   Effective: 06/30/2021
              4.      Staff must ensure parents/guardians sign applicable release of
                      information forms.

              5.      Staff must discuss youth and family’s language and cultural needs.

              6.      Staff must discuss family counseling or parenting programs options
                      with parents/guardians.

              7.      Staff must discuss family support resources (e.g. peer-to-peer
                      support or parent support groups).

        D.    Multidisciplinary Teams (MDT)

              Families are central to the case planning process. MDT scheduling must
              accommodate family members. All staff must reinforce to the family the
              importance of their participation.

              1.      The JPPO (community placement youth) and case coordinator
                      (facility youth) must contact parents/guardians to schedule the
                      MDT.

              2.      JPPOs and case coordinators must make accommodations,
                      including videoconferencing and telephone conferencing, to support
                      parent/guardian participation.

        E.    Notification

              Parents/guardians must be notified of significant events or changes that
              impact youth. See OYA policy I-E-5.0 (Notification to Parents/Guardians)
              for related procedures.

        F.    Visitation

              Family members are encouraged to visit the youth.

              1.      The visiting approval/denial process in OYA facilities is outlined in
                      OYA policy II-E-2.5 (Visiting with Youth).

              2.      OYA must follow court orders that affect family visitation.

        G.    Suspension of Family Member Involvement

              Parents/guardians must be included in the youth’s case planning and
              treatment process unless there is clear evidence that the
              parents/guardians pose a safety risk to the youth or is detrimental to the
              youth’s reformation. Other family members may be included in the youth’s
              case planning and treatment process as long as they support and
              contribute toward these efforts.

              1.      Any recommendation to temporarily suspend a family member’s
                      involvement in a youth’s case planning and treatment process must
                      be made by the youth’s MDT and will address a specific area of
                      concern.

Page 5 of 6   I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation   Effective: 06/30/2021
              2.      Any decision to temporarily suspend a family member’s
                      involvement (other than parent/guardian) in a youth’s case planning
                      and treatment process must be made by the appropriate field
                      supervisor or facility superintendent/camp director.

              3.      Any decision to temporarily suspend a parent/guardian’s
                      involvement in a youth’s case planning and treatment process must
                      be made by the appropriate assistant director and will be
                      communicated in writing to the parent/guardian by the assistant
                      director, including clear expectations and steps for reinstating the
                      parent/guardian’s involvement.

              4.      The MDT must review the temporary suspension of a family
                      member’s involvement for possible reinstatement monthly.

V.      LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 6 of 6   I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in Youth Reformation   Effective: 06/30/2021
