                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:        Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                                                                   Review/Revision:
 E: Programming – 3.0                       II-E-3.0 (04/24) 10/29/2024
                                                                         None
                                            II-E-3.0 (10/22)
                                            II-E-3.0 (07/20)
                                            II-E-3.0 (10/19)
 Related             ORS Chapter 163 Offenses Against Persons
 Standards           ORS Chapter 164 Offenses Against Property
 and                 ORS 420A Oregon Youth Authority; Youth Correction Facilities
 References:         OAR 416-410-0050 Initial Placement
                     OAR 416-300 Parole and Revocations
                     OAR 416-330 Substitute Care Placements
                     OAR 416-410 Close-custody Population
                     OYA policies: I-A-11.0 Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and
                      Case Planning
                      II-A-1.5 Agency Case Review and DOC Early Transfer Protocol
                      II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Request
                     JJIS documents: OYA 4114 Intake Review Committee Findings
                      and Orders
                      OYA 4540 Recommendation for Parole and PRC Findings and
                      Orders
                      OYA 4105CP Agency Case Review
                      OYA 4107CP Agency Case Review Findings and Orders
                     Attachment A: OYA Facility Services Population Management
                      Principles
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Deputy Director
                                            ____________________
                                            Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       The policy delineates a process for OYA’s Intake Review Committee and Parole
       Review Committees to follow when designating a youth’s initial facility placement,
       and reviewing parole appropriateness.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Agency Case Review Committee (ACR): A committee that conducts the
       executive-level review of all specified youth and their identified movements within
Page 1 of 8     II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees       Effective: 10/29/2024
       and from OYA facilities, including the early transfer of DOC youth to the
       Department of Corrections. Membership includes the Facility Services assistant
       director, the Community Services assistant director, and additional members
       appointed by the OYA director.

       Intake Review Committee (IRC): An agency committee that reviews all youth
       who are admitted for intake into a youth correction facility (excluding Oak Creek
       YCF) from the community to determine the youth’s initial facility placement. The
       committee has a minimum of two management team members including the
       Facility Services chief of operations and the Community Services chief of
       parole/probation operations, who are advised by the Office of Inclusion and
       Intercultural Relations and a treatment services supervisor.

       Multidisciplinary Review Team (MDT): A team of individuals who work
       collaboratively to develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan
       that is culturally competent and gender-appropriate for each youth committed to
       OYA. The MDT is based on a core team membership consisting of the youth,
       OYA primary case manager, placement representative, QMHP (facility)/treatment
       provider (community), tribal representative (for youth enrolled in one of Oregon’s
       federally recognized tribes) and the parents/guardians. Additional team members
       are identified by the core team based on the youth’s Risk Needs Assessment,
       identified criminogenic needs and placement.

       Parole Review Committee (PRC): A committee, from a specific facility, that
       reviews all youth parole recommendations for appropriateness. The committee
       members are the youth’s field supervisor, and the facility’s superintendent/camp
       director or designee.

       Population Management Committee (PMC): A committee that coordinates
       youth placements, treatment opportunities, and provides quality assurance for
       lengths-of-stay in OYA close-custody facilities. The committee is chaired by the
       Facility Services chief of operations, and includes the chief of parole and
       probation, and representation from the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural
       Relations, Facility Services, and Treatment Services.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Staff must be aware of their biases when assessing youth for
       program placements and parole. Including advisors from the Office of Inclusion
       and Intercultural Relations (OIIR) in decision-making committees helps ensure
       OYA is making decisions that are culturally appropriate for youth in its care.

       OYA has one youth correctional facility designated primarily for female youth.
       Most female youth are initially placed at Oak Creek Youth Correctional Facility for
       intake from the community. OYA has multiple primarily male youth correctional
       facilities. The Intake Review Committee (IRC) is an agencywide committee that
Page 2 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
       reviews all youth who are admitted for intake into MacLaren YCF from the
       community to determine the youth’s initial facility placement. The committee
       members are primarily the Facility Services chief of operations and the
       Community Services chief of parole/probation operations, who are advised by
       OIIR and treatment services supervisors. Facility placement is determined
       considering a youth’s individual risks and needs, and facility availability.

       Parole Review Committees (PRCs) are facility-based committees that review all
       youth in their facilities who are recommended for parole by their multidisciplinary
       teams (MDTs). The committee voting members are the youth’s field supervisor,
       and the facility’s superintendent/camp director or designee. OYA has established
       its parole standards in OAR 416, division 300. Placement decisions paroling to
       substitute care must follow OAR 416-330-0030.

       OYA is committed to evidence-based decision-making, including using a
       validated risk/needs assessment and other actuarial assessments to effectively
       match the right youth to the right services for the right length of time. It is
       expected that assessments, data-informed tools, and other relevant evidence-
       informed information are evaluated when making decisions in IRC and PRC.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Intake Review Committee (IRC)

              1.     A youth’s MDT must forward their primary and secondary
                     recommendations for the youth’s facility placement to the IRC
                     within 30 days of the youth’s admittance to a youth correctional
                     facility from the community.

                     a)     The MDT must vet proposed youth placements with
                            proposed receiving housing units, or facilities.

                     b)     Difficult youth placements may be referred to the Population
                            Management Committee for placement recommendations.

              2.     Primarily male youth whose parole has been revoked

                     A youth’s JPPO must complete an OYA Revocation Referral
                     Assessment in JJIS to determine whether the youth will participate
                     in an expedited release program (Track 1), or will be referred to the
                     IRC for another facility placement (Track 2).

                     a)     Track 1: Youth whose parole was revoked because of
                            technical violations, or program termination for behavioral
                            issues with no other available or appropriate placement at
                            the time of revocation will participate in identified
                            programming for 45 to 90 days.

                            Requests for exceptions to move a youth to Track 2 may be
                            approved by the chief of parole/probation operations.
                     b)     Track 2: Youth with new or pending criminal charges,
                            intravenous drug use within the past 90 days (e.g.,
Page 3 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
                             methamphetamine, heroin), significant substance use with
                             anticipated significant detoxification time, or other significant
                             documented reasons must be referred to the IRC for a
                             facility placement (as described in subsection 1 above).

              3.     The IRC must review the MDT’s placement recommendations
                     within seven days of receiving them from a youth’s MDT.

              4.     The IRC must consider the following when determining a youth’s
                     facility placement:

                     a)      The youth’s risk and protective factors;

                     b)      Facility placement availability and dynamics;

                     c)      The youth’s responsiveness to programs and treatment;

                     d)      The youth’s county of commitment;

                     e)      The youth’s family/supports location;

                     f)      The youth’s treatment/program needs;

                     g)      The youth’s cultural needs:

                     h)      The youth’s mental health needs;

                     i)      The youth’s physical health needs;

                     j)      Security management issues; and

                     k)      Any applicable predictive data tools.

              5.     The IRC must document its decision in a JJIS document IRC
                     Findings and Order (OYA 4114) within one working day of its
                     decision.

              6.     If the IRC is unable to agree on a youth’s facility placement, the
                     case must be referred to the Agency Case Review Committee for a
                     decision.

       B.     Interfacility transfers

              Staff must follow OYA policy II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests when
              considering youth transfers between OYA facilities.

       C.     Parole Review Committee (PRC)

              1.     A youth’s MDT must notify the facility’s PRC of the youth’s
                     recommendation for parole using JJIS documents OYA 4540
                     Recommendation for Parole and PRC Findings if the youth does


Page 4 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
                     not require an Agency Case Review, or OYA 4105CP Agency Case
                     Review if they do.

              2.     Prior to the PRC review, the JPPO must import the youth’s
                     Transition Goals and Transition Checklist into JJIS.

              3.     The PRC must review the MDT’s parole recommendation within
                     seven days of receiving it.

              4.     The PRC must consider the following when determining parole
                     readiness:

                     a)     The youth’s efforts, participation in and progress on
                            treatment, educational, vocational and behavioral goals;

                     b)     The youth’s transition plans as outlined in the Transition
                            Goals and Transition Checklist;

                     c)     Whether the youth has made and agrees to continue to
                            make restitution to the victim;

                     d)     Available community resources that support continued
                            development and safe placement availability;

                     e)     The threat of harm the youth represents to self or others;

                     f)     The impact of the youth’s release on the victim and the
                            community;

                     g)     Any applicable predictive data tools;

                     h)     The youth’s demonstrated development of the following
                            markers of psychosocial maturity shown by research to be
                            corroborated with desistance from crime:

                            (1)     Emotion management and impulse control;

                            (2)     Suppression of aggressive behavior;

                            (3)     Consideration of others;

                            (4)     Future orientation;

                            (5)     Ability to take personal responsibility;

                                    o Commitment offense impact on community and
                                      victim;

                                    o Current and future conduct; and

                            (6)     Resisting peer influences; and


Page 5 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
                     i)     Any other factors or circumstances deemed relevant by OYA
                            based on the individual characteristics and circumstances of
                            the youth.

              5.     In addition to paragraph 3 above, the PRC must consider the
                     following when determining suitable substitute care placement:

                     a)     The youth’s parent’s/legal guardian’s input regarding
                            placement;

                     b)     The youth’s placement preference;

                     c)     The youth’s religious, cultural, and ethnic heritage;

                     d)     The youth’s medical, physical, and psychological needs; and

                     e)     The youth’s behavioral treatment needs.

              6.     The PRC must document its decision on the appropriate JJIS
                     document (OYA 4540 or OYA 4105), within one working day of its
                     decision.

              7.     If the PRC cannot agree on a decision, the case must be referred to
                     the Facility Services chief of operations and Community Services
                     chief of parole/probation operations for resolution.

                     a)     The Facility Services and Community Services chiefs of
                            operations must document their decision in a JJIS document
                            OYA 4540.

                     b)     Unresolved cases must be forwarded to the Agency Case
                            Review Committee for resolution.

              8.     Additional approval required
                     The PRC must forward its parole approval to the Agency Case
                     Review Committee for final approval if the youth’s offense included
                     the following:
                     a)     Aggravated murder, as defined in ORS 163.095;
                     b)     Murder I, as defined by ORS 163.107(1);
                     c)     Murder II, as defined in ORS 163.115;
                     d)     Attempt to commit murder, as defined in ORS 161.405(2)(a);
                     e)     Manslaughter I, as defined in ORS 163.118;
                     f)     Manslaughter II, as defined in ORS 163.125;
                     g)     Criminally negligent homicide, as defined in ORS 163.145;
                     h)     Assault I, as defined in ORS 163.185;

Page 6 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
                     i)     Assault II, as defined in ORS 163.175;
                     j)     Kidnapping I, as defined in ORS 163.235;
                     k)     Kidnapping II, as defined in ORS 163.225;
                     l)     Rape I, as defined in ORS 163.375;
                     m)     Rape II, as defined in ORS 163.365;
                     n)     Sodomy I, as defined in ORS 163.405;
                     o)     Sodomy II, as defined in ORS 163.395;
                     p)     Unlawful sexual penetration I, as defined in ORS 163.411;
                     q)     Unlawful sexual penetration II, as defined in ORS 163.408;
                     r)     Sexual abuse in the first degree, as defined in ORS 163.427;
                     s)     Robbery I, as defined in ORS 164.415;
                     t)     Robbery II, as defined in ORS 164.405;
                     u)     Arson I, as defined in ORS 164.325;
                     v)     Using a child in a display of sexually explicit conduct, as
                            defined in ORS 163.670;
                     w)     Compelling prostitution, as defined in ORS 167.017;
                     x)     Unlawful manufacture or delivery of a controlled substance
                            thereby causing death, as defined by ORS 475.752(6);
                     y)     Aggravated vehicular homicide, as defined in ORS 163.149;
                            or
                     z)     Conspiracy to commit any of the offenses listed above, as
                            defined in ORS 161.450.

              9.     The Agency Case Review committee will follow OYA policy II-A-1.5
                     Agency Case Review and DOC Early Transfer Protocol, and
                     document its decision on a JJIS document OYA 4107CP Agency
                     Case Review Findings and Orders.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 7 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
       Attachment A: OYA Facility Services Population Management Principles

   •    Principle 1 - Family and regional preference
                      Every effort will be made to keep youth close to home and family.

   •    Principle 2 - Attaching and Belonging
                      We stick with youth, so they know:
                       We don’t give up on them.
                       They will be accountable to the unit community for their
                         behaviors.
                       Negative behavior will not result in preferred placements.

   •    Principle 3 - Transitions
                      We value providing time for effective transitions and connections
                      during movements and new placements.

   •    Principle 4 - The MDT makes the recommendation
                      Decisions are not driven by a single person. We strive to hear every
                      participant’s perspective, including youth and families.

   •    Principle 5 - Data-informed at every step
                      Data, assessments, and predictive tools will be considered (when
                      appropriate) and meaningfully included in our conversations about
                      youth placement.




Page 8 of 8    II-E-3.0 Intake Review Committee; Parole Review Committees   Effective: 10/29/2024
