                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Staff Personal Property Damage Reimbursement
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:       Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                Review:
 B: Financial Management – 4.1              I-B-4.1 (01/00) 07/30/2012 07/30/2024
 Related             ORS 183.310 through 183.502 (General Provisions; Adoption of
 Standards            Rules; Contested Cases; Judicial Review; Appeals from Circuit
 and                  Court; Alternative Dispute Resolution)
 References:         ORS 420A.220 (Damage to property of employee of Oregon
                      Youth Authority; claims; payment)
                     Applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements (SEIU; AFSCME
                      Local 191
                     OYA forms: YA 2235 (Personal Property Damage Claim Form)
                      YA 8300 (Incident/Accident/Hazard Report)
                     Other forms: SAIF 801 (Workers’ Compensation Claim Form)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Accounting Manager                          _______________________
                                             Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides general standards for OYA staff personal property damage
       reimbursement to include allowances, limitations and the claim process.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA staffs' personal clothing or effects (including eyeglasses, clothing, and
       watches) may be damaged while staff perform their official duties. A staff
       member may file a reimbursement claim pursuant to these general standards.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Allowances

               1.     OYA may audit, allow, and pay a claim made by a staff member for
                      damage to the staff member's personal property if:


Page 1 of 4    I-B-4.1 Staff Personal Property Damage Reimbursement        Effective: 07/30/2012
                     a)     The property damage resulted from the staff’s employment
                            with OYA; and

                     b)     The staff member filed a written claim with the staff
                            member's immediate supervisor within 180 days after the
                            staff member discovered or should have discovered the
                            damage.

              2.     Claims are limited to the actual damage repair or replacement cost,
                     up to limits prescribed in this policy.

              3.     A sales receipt or substantiated cost estimate prepared by a
                     company that can replace or repair the item is required.

              4.     All claims must be based on reasonable costs, which are subject to
                     agency review.

       B.     Limitations

              No claim will be paid when -

              1.     The amount sought exceeds the funds appropriated to the agency
                     for this purpose;

              2.     The damage has been compensated by liability insurance or
                     otherwise;

              3.     The damage was caused by negligence of the party damaged;

              4.     A suit or an action of law would be barred by any appropriate
                     statute of limitations;

              5.     The claim for damage to a watch, watchband, or both exceeds $67
                     (reimbursement will be made at $67);

              6.     The claim for damage to clothing or a sundry item such as a
                     blouse, shirt, pants, or similar item exceeds $46 (reimbursement
                     will be made at $46);

                     If the staff member has the option of wearing state-provided
                     clothing but was not doing so at the time of the damage, the
                     reimbursement rate will be the lesser of $46 or the staff member's
                     actual cost.

              7.     The claim for damage to required glasses or contacts exceeds the
                     cost to repair or replace;

                     a)     Reimbursement will be made at the lesser of the two costs.

                     b)     Such reimbursement may be allowed only in instances
                            where the glasses or contacts are required in the


Page 2 of 4   I-B-4.1 Staff Personal Property Damage Reimbursement   Effective: 07/30/2012
                            course/scope of the job and the staff member was wearing
                            them at the time of the incident that caused the damage.

              8.     Damage is to personal vehicles;

                     Staff may submit such claims to private insurance, or to the
                     Department of Administrative Services, Risk Management Division
                     (DAS-RMD) if the state may be liable for damages.

              9.     Damage is to jewelry, radios, electronic devices, non-prescription
                     glasses/sunglasses or other personal items deemed unnecessary
                     to perform the staff member's job; or

              10.    Replacement cost exceeds original cost as documented by original
                     purchase receipt and replacement receipt. Reimbursement will be
                     made at the lowest cost.

       C.     Claim process

              1.     Staff must retain and process the damaged item with the written
                     claim.

                     If the item is maintained by the staff member for use (e.g.,
                     damaged eyeglasses that can be temporarily repaired), the staff
                     member's supervisor must inspect the item and attest to the
                     damage.

              2.     Staff must complete a YA 2235 (Personal Property Damage Claim
                     Form) including:

                     a)     Details of the incident that caused the damage;

                     b)     Copies of all sales receipts or substantiated cost estimates
                            prepared by a company that can replace or repair the item;
                            and

                     c)     Names of witnesses to the incident.

                     d)     If the claim is for eyeglass or contact lens damage
                            reimbursement, staff must also:

                            (1)     Complete a YA 8300;

                            (2)     Obtain an estimate of repair/replacement (eye exam
                                    cost is not reimbursable);

                            (3)     Submit the claim within 180 days after the staff
                                    member discovered or should have discovered the
                                    damage; and

                            (4)     If medical treatment is necessary, complete a SAIF
                                    801. SAIF will process the claim for reimbursement.
Page 3 of 4   I-B-4.1 Staff Personal Property Damage Reimbursement   Effective: 07/30/2012
              3.     Written claims for reimbursement will be processed as follows.

                     a)     The staff member (claimant) must complete a YA 2235 and
                            forward it to his/her immediate supervisor.

                     b)     The staff member's immediate supervisor must ensure
                            appropriate documentation is provided in the YA 2235.

                            (1)     The supervisor must return the YA 2235 to the staff
                                    member for completion if insufficient documentation is
                                    submitted.

                            (2)     Facility supervisors must forward the YA 2235 to the
                                    superintendent or camp director when sufficient
                                    documentation is submitted.

                     c)     The superintendent, camp director or field supervisor must:

                            (1)     Approve the claim and process payment according to
                                    local practice, or

                            (2)     Deny the claim, and note the decision on the
                                    YA 2235.

                     d)     The supervisor must send a copy of the approved YA 2235
                            to the local Safety Committee for a safety review.

                     e)     The local Safety Committee must make written safety
                            recommendations to limit future incidents when necessary.

       D.     OYA's decision to reject any claim filed is final, and is not subject to review
              under ORS 183.310 - 183.550, or by any other agency or court.

              The provisions of this policy do not affect any other remedy that may be
              available to the claimant under law.

       E.     If the staff member claimant owes a debt to the State of Oregon or any
              state agency, OYA must deduct the amount of the debt from the
              reimbursement.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4   I-B-4.1 Staff Personal Property Damage Reimbursement     Effective: 07/30/2012
