                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Response to Subpoenas
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:       Effective Date:     Date of Last
 E: Information Management – 1.2            I-E-1.2 (01/20    06/26/2026          Review/Revision:
                                            I-E-1.2 (9/16)                        None
                                            I-E-1.2 (7/12)
                                            I-E-1.2 (3/08)
                                            I-E-1.2 (5/04)
                                            Information
                                            Letter (2/02)
 Related             ORS 136.555 (Subpoena defined)
 Standards           ORS 136.580 through ORS136.595 (Subpoenas when books,
 and                   papers or documents are required; how served)
 References:         Attachment A: Response to Subpoena Matrix
                     OYA policy: I-E-2.1 Public Records Requests for Agency Records
                      I-E-2.3 Requests for Youth Information and Records
                      I-E-2.6 Second Look Hearings
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Government Relations Manager
                                            ______________________
                                            Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:
       This policy provides standards for OYA staff when responding to work-related
       subpoenas.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:
       Agency subpoena coordinator: The designated staff in the Director's Office
       whose duties include acting as the agency liaison with the Attorney General's
       office when responding to subpoenas.
       Local subpoena coordinator: A staff designated by the facility superintendent,
       camp director, or field supervisor to coordinate response to subpoenas for the
       field office or facility with the agency subpoena coordinator.
       Service: Subpoena delivery by certified mail or in person to the person named in
       the subpoena.
       Subpoena: A command to appear at a certain time and place to give testimony
       upon a matter. Sometimes a subpoena commands the production of books,
       papers, documents, or tangible things (subpoena duces tecum).


Page 1 of 6                   I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas                     Effective: 06/22/2026
III.   POLICY:

       Subpoenas are important legal documents that must be addressed in a timely
       manner. Failure to respond to a subpoena may result in legal action against the
       person to whom the subpoena was issued, or the agency that person works for.
       OYA staff must never ignore a subpoena.

       OYA will respond to subpoenas issued to gather information or compel
       appearance in matters involving staff or youth. Subpoenas are time sensitive and
       OYA’s response (which includes sending documentation or appearing at a
       proceeding) will ensure:

       A.     The response is timely, appropriate, and accurate;

       B.     Confidentiality of agency records is maintained, according to federal and
              state laws;

       C.     A proper legal objection is made when deemed appropriate by legal
              counsel; and

       D.     Staff efforts are not duplicated.

       Attachment A Response to Subpoena Matrix summarizes how OYA responds to
       different types of subpoenas.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Subpoena intake

              Upon receipt of a subpoena, staff must immediately:

              1.     Notify their supervisor of the subpoena and any directions for
                     appearance (work schedules and travel arrangements must be
                     addressed by the staff’s supervisor); and

              2.     Provide a copy of the complete subpoena and any other documents
                     received to the local or agency subpoena coordinator. Also, provide
                     information on how and when the subpoena was received.

       B.     Agency subpoena coordinator

              A designated staff member in the OYA Director's Office serves as the
              agency subpoena coordinator.

              The agency subpoena coordinator's duties include:

              1.     Acting as the liaison with the Attorney General's office when
                     responding to subpoenas, including coordinating the release of any
                     OYA records;

              2.     Assisting with records redaction;

Page 2 of 6                 I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas              Effective: 06/22/2026
              3.     Collaborating with the government relations manager or designee
                     on impact to pending or potential litigation or tort claims; and

              4.     Ensuring local subpoena coordinators receive a subpoena process
                     orientation.

                     The orientation must include identifying subpoenas, matters of
                     service, confidentiality, networking with agency partners, and
                     appropriate agency response.

       C.     Local subpoena coordinator

              Each OYA superintendent, camp director, and field supervisor must
              designate a local subpoena coordinator for that facility or field office. The
              local subpoena coordinator duties include:

              1.     Acting as the facility or field office point of contact for subpoena
                     service process and staff questions;

              2.     Working with the agency subpoena coordinator when responding to
                     subpoenas;

              3.     Contacting the agency subpoena coordinator immediately upon
                     receipt of the following:

                     a)     A subpoena duces tecum, or court order for the release of
                            OYA records; or

                     b)     A subpoena requesting staff to testify.

              4.     Serving as a resource for staff questions about testimony and
                     depositions; and

              5.     Ensuring subpoena activities are entered into JJIS case notes
                     regarding youth who are the subjects of subpoenas.

       D.     Service of subpoenas

              There are legal requirements under Oregon Rules of Criminal or Civil
              Procedure, Federal Rules of Criminal or Civil Procedure, or other state or
              federal laws, for the service of subpoenas. Most subpoenas must be
              served in person directly to the intended recipient.

              1.     Subpoenas may be accepted by mail if:

                     a)     The subpoena commands the production of records or
                            documents only (subpoena duces tecum), and not
                            testimony. The subpoena must not include a command to
                            appear at a trial, hearing or deposition.; or

                     b)     An attorney issuing the subpoena (or their staff) –


Page 3 of 6                 I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas                 Effective: 06/22/2026
                           (1)    Has had personal or telephone contact with the OYA
                                  staff, and the OYA staff indicated a willingness to
                                  appear at trial if subpoenaed;

                           (2)    Has made provision for payment of witness and
                                  mileage fees; and

                           (3)    Has mailed the subpoena to the OYA staff more than
                                  10 days prior to trial by certified mail or another
                                  receipt-type mail.

              2.    Service of a subpoena on a youth may be served on the custodian
                    (OYA) of the youth, only upon order of the court.

              3.    If someone presents a subpoena for service intended for someone
                    who is not available, OYA staff may state that they can receive a
                    copy for the unavailable person, but their action is not considered
                    acceptance of service.

       E.     Preparation of records or documents responsive to a subpoena

              1.    The local subpoena coordinator must send complete, accurate
                    copies of any records requested in the subpoena to the agency
                    subpoena coordinator.

              2.    The agency subpoena coordinator may coordinate with the
                    Attorney General’s office before releasing the records.

       F.     Providing testimony responsive to a subpoena

              Staff may be subpoenaed to testify in proceedings involving youth as
              defendants, victims, or plaintiffs.

              1.    Staff must appear as directed and testify truthfully and to the best of
                    their ability regarding information for which they have personal
                    knowledge (e.g., a youth’s reformation progress while in custody).

              2.    Staff must not make recommendations as to whether youth are
                    suitable for:

                    a)     Second Look Conditional Release;

                    b)     Sex offender registration or relief from sex offender
                           registration;

                    c)     Waiver to circuit court under ORS 419C.349; or

                    d)     Issues that are beyond the staff’s classification, job duties, or
                           qualifications (e.g., a group life coordinator may not make
                           statements to the court regarding a youth’s risk for
                           reoffending).


Page 4 of 6                I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas                 Effective: 06/22/2026
              3.   If staff are asked to testify about any of the non-disclosable
                   information and the youth has not signed a release authorizing the
                   staff to disclose the information requested, under Oregon law, the
                   Public Officer Privilege protects that information.

                   a)    The Public Officer Privilege provides “A public officer shall
                         not be examined as to public records determined to be
                         exempt from disclosure under ORS 192.501 to 192.505.”
                         ORS 40.270.

                   b)    In these situations, staff must read the below citation and
                         then be ordered by the court to testify about non-disclosable
                         information:

                         “Your Honor, as required by the applicable state statutes that
                         govern the privilege and disclosure of information relating to
                         a youth’s history and prognosis, and as permitted by the
                         Public Officer Privilege set forth in ORS 40.270, I must
                         respectfully decline to answer counsel’s question unless I
                         am ordered to do so by this Court. ORS 419A.257 prohibits
                         an Oregon Youth Authority employee from disclosing
                         information contained in reports and other materials
                         pertaining to that youth’s history and prognosis, absent a
                         request from the youth or consent of the juvenile court that
                         adjudicated the youth.

                         “I am advised by the Attorney General’s office that pursuant
                         to ORS 40.270, I may not be examined regarding this
                         privileged information to the extent that this court determines
                         that the information is exempt from disclosure under
                         Oregon’s Public Records Law. And, that absent a proper
                         written authorization for release of the information signed by
                         the youth, or an order consenting to the disclosure by the
                         juvenile court that adjudicated the youth, the information is
                         exempt from disclosure under ORS 192.502(9).

                         “I respectfully request that the court determine and direct
                         whether I am required to answer counsel’s questions
                         regarding this youth.”
                   c)    Staff must only be ordered by a court (not a prosecutor or
                         grand jury) to testify about non-disclosable information, as
                         described above.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 5 of 6              I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas                Effective: 06/22/2026
Attachment A: Response to Subpoena Matrix

 Type of case                          Appropriate staff response
                                       Records: Staff must work with the OYA Second Look
                                       coordinator. See OYA policy I-E-2.6 Second Look
                                       Hearings for details.
 Second Look hearing
                                       Appearance: If staff are subpoenaed to appear, the
                                       staff’s supervisor or Human Resources will arrange
                                       court fee handling and the staff's work schedule.
                                       Records: Local subpoena coordinators work with the
                                       agency subpoena coordinator and ensure a case note
 Case involving a youth
                                       is entered into JJIS regarding the youth's subpoena
                                       activity.
 Case involving a youth as a subject   Appearance: The local subpoena coordinator works
 of dependency, divorce, custody,      with management staff for the youth’s appearance.
 support proceedings, or termination   Contact DOC if DOC youth. Contact the youth’s
 of parental rights.                   attorney, if applicable.
                                       The local subpoena coordinator will coordinate the staff
                                       member's appearance and brief the staff member on
                                       courtroom protocol.

                                       Staff, with appropriate release or court order, will limit
                                       testimony to personal knowledge and to activities
                                       known or services directly provided by the staff
 Case involving a youth with staff     member within the scope of his/her job responsibilities.
 appearance in court                   Staff will not make recommendations about the
                                       outcomes of the proceeding.

                                       If staff are subpoenaed to appear, the staff’s supervisor
                                       will arrange the staff's work schedule.

                                       Any witness fees or provision of payments should be
                                       directed to the agency subpoena coordinator.
                                       The agency subpoena coordinator is the primary
                                       subpoena coordinator for records and appearance
                                       requests in criminal cases against OYA or OYA staff.

                                       The local subpoena coordinator immediately contacts
                                       the agency subpoena coordinator.
 Criminal case against an OYA staff
 member                                No records may be released, or appearances made,
                                       without the Director's Office authorization.

                                       The agency subpoena coordinator will contact the
                                       public policy manager for review and direction on
                                       contacting the Attorney General's office and DAS Risk
                                       Management, as necessary.




Page 6 of 6                   I-E-1.2 Response to Subpoenas                   Effective: 06/22/2026
