                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:           Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                                                                    Revision/Review:
 B: Intake – 4.0                         III-B-4.0 (10/22) 01/15/2025
                                                                        None
                                         III-B-4.0 (01/20)
                                         III-B-4.0 (09/13)
                                         III-B-4.0 (05/12)
                                         III-B-4.0 (10/10)
                                         III-B-4.0 (01/07)
 Related             ORS 419B.005 through 419B.050 (Reporting of Child Abuse)
 Standards           OAR Chapter 416, Division 150 (Interviews with Youth)
 and                 OAR Chapter 416, Division 440 (Youth Mail)
 References:         OAR Chapter 416, Division 20 (Youth in Custody Grievance
                      Process)
                     OYA policy: 0-2.0 Principles of Conduct
                      0-2.3 Mandatory Reporting of Abuse
                      I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                      Abuse and Sexual Harassment
                      I-E-3.0 OYA Media Relations
                      III-A-2.1 Youth Legal Assistance
                      III-B-2.0 New Commitments to OYA Legal Custody
                      III-C-1.3 Behavior Incentives and Reinforcing Behavior
                      (Community)
                      III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement
                     OYA forms: YA 1300 Youth Grievance Filing Form
                      YA 1300 SP Youth Grievance Filing Form (Spanish)
                      YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form
                      YA 1300A SP Youth Grievance Review Form (Spanish)
 Related            None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                 ________________________
                                          Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:
       This policy delineates youth rights and a youth grievance process while youth are
       on OYA parole/probation, and staff response to alleged violations of youth rights.




Page 1 of 6        III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community         Effective: 01/15/2025
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Discrimination: Any act, policy or practice that penalizes or disadvantages
       youth or subjects them to harassment based on actual or perceived race,
       ethnicity, religious belief, national origin, gender, physical or mental disability,
       sexual orientation, gender identity or intersex status.

       Representative: An adult person who is authorized by a youth to receive
       confidential information from OYA and to act on behalf of the youth with respect
       to a grievance. A representative includes, but is not limited to, an attorney,
       relative, friend, or legal guardian, but not another youth.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. OYA staff must be aware that youth from historically marginalized
       communities may have experienced racial trauma and powerlessness in the
       past. Therefore, it is critical that OYA staff discuss with youth the rights they have
       while in OYA custody, and the ability to grieve decisions that impact those rights.

       OYA staff must treat youth equally, regardless of race, ethnicity, religious beliefs,
       national origin, gender, physical or mental disabilities, sexual orientation, gender
       identity or expression. OYA provides youth with programs and services
       necessary to promote their personal reformation and development while
       addressing their criminogenic needs and case plan goals. These services are
       designed to maintain a youth's physical and psychological well-being and are
       equally available to all youth.

       OYA recognizes all youth have a right to review any action or decision affecting
       them and initiate a grievance without fear of reprisal. Youth who believe they
       have been dealt with unjustly by OYA may file a grievance using the process
       described below. Limitations on filing grievances are listed in OAR 416-020-
       0045. Youth are not required to discuss the nature of their grievance with staff;
       however, staff are encouraged to handle questions and complaints at the lowest
       level possible.

       Grievances may also be filed on behalf of a youth by the youth’s representative
       when the youth agrees on the filing. Staff must document a youth's declination of
       a representative's offer to file a grievance on behalf of the youth. Grievances filed
       by a youth’s parent or legal guardian involving possible civil rights violations or
       criminal matters are not conditioned on the youth agreeing to have the grievance
       filed on the youth's behalf.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA must notify youth of their rights including, but not limited to, the
              following:

Page 2 of 6       III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community    Effective: 01/15/2025
              1.       Equal opportunities to participate in all relevant programs, free of
                       discrimination, abuse and humiliation, following OYA policy 0-2.0
                       Principles of Conduct.

              2.       To receive sanctions for misconduct without degrading comments
                       or intentional bodily harm.

                       a)      Sanctions that may adversely affect a youth’s health,
                               physical or psychological well-being, or deny a youth regular
                               meals, sufficient sleep or exercise, medical care,
                               correspondence privileges, religious services, or legal
                               assistance are expressly prohibited.

                       b)      Calisthenics or other physical demands will not be used as a
                               sanction. To use such activities as a sanction or punishment
                               is considered harassment and is prohibited.

                               (1)    Any required physical act such as push-ups, sit-ups,
                                      running, lifting, or standing are only allowed as part of
                                      organized, supervised physical education activity.

                               (2)    Housekeeping and maintenance chores may be
                                      assigned as a sanction.

                       c)      Staff may refer to OYA policy III-C-1.3 Behavior Incentives
                               and Reinforcing Behavior (Community) for guidance on
                               permissible behavior incentives and reinforcements.

              3.       To receive complete information about the youth’s own progress in
                       language the youth understands.

              4.       Opportunity and access for play, recreation and exercise.

              5.       Opportunity and access to education.

              6.       Adequate nutrition, sleep and medical care.

              7.       To have information kept confidential except in areas that allow for
                       those who need to know certain information as defined by law.

              8.       To receive/send mail in accordance with court orders.

              9.       Reasonable access to religious services and practices. No youth
                       will be forced to participate.

              10.      To not be exploited or required to make public statement of
                       gratitude for the agency to the public; or be required to perform at
                       public gatherings.

              11.      Opportunity to contact the youth’s own attorney, parent, guardian,
                       and juvenile parole/probation officer.
Page 3 of 6         III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community   Effective: 01/15/2025
              12.      To file a grievance if the youth believes a right has been denied or
                       violated. Youth may also call the OYA Reporting Line (1-800-315-
                       5440) to report such events.

       B.     Staff must not harass, intimidate, punish, or retaliate against youth for
              filing a grievance.

       C.     Staff witnessing any form of youth sanctions with intentional bodily harm
              or denial of rights listed above must follow the process below:

              1.       Immediately ensure the safety of the youth, and notify law
                       enforcement if appropriate;

              2.       As soon as possible, prepare a Youth Incident Report (YIR) as
                       described in OYA policy III-A-1.0 (Youth Incident Reports –
                       Community);

              3.       Contact the appropriate field supervisor regarding the incident; and

              4.       Ensure that medical attention is provided for any injury that
                       occurred during the incident.

              5.       The field supervisor must immediately contact the Community
                       Services assistant director and review the related YIR to determine
                       a response.

       D.     Grievance Limitations

              Grievance limitations are listed in OAR 416-020-0020. Youth may request
              review of only one matter, action, or incident per grievance form. The
              same issue may only be grieved more than once if there is another
              incident and new information is available about the issue. A youth may not
              submit more than two new grievances in any one week or six in any
              calendar month (a week is Sunday through Saturday). Exceptions may be
              made if a youth clearly states in writing the reason for submitting above
              the number allowed. If the local grievance coordinator determines that
              these reasons are not clear, concise, or valid, the grievance will be
              returned as denied. These limitations do not apply to “emergency issues.”
              The local grievance coordinator determines whether an issue is an
              emergency or not.

              According to OAR 416-020-0020(2), a youth may not grieve the following:

              1.       Issues for which the youth is entitled to a contested case hearing,
                       according to ORS Chapter 183;

              2.       Actions or decisions not within the jurisdiction of OYA (e.g., actions
                       by the court or another agency);

              3.       Incidents or problems to which the youth was not a party;


Page 4 of 6         III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community   Effective: 01/15/2025
              4.      Issues for which the youth has initiated court action or filed notice of
                      intent to file tort claim; or

              5.      The matter of the grievance will be or has already been decided by
                      a judge.

       E.     Grievance Review Process

              1.      Staff must inform youth of the grievance process during initial
                      intake.

              2.      Staff must send each youth’s parent/guardian information about the
                      grievance process during initial intake.

                      This information is contained in document “Youth in the
                      Community: Top Things for Families to Know.”

              3.      Emergency Grievances

                      If a youth or youth’s representative files a grievance for an
                      emergency matter where life, health, or safety may be threatened
                      (e.g., imminent danger, abuse, injury, sexual vulnerability), staff
                      must immediately notify the appropriate field supervisor or
                      Community Services assistant director of the matter. The grievance
                      must be responded to as soon as possible.

                      Staff may also suggest the youth or youth’s representative call the
                      OYA Reporting Line (1-800-315-5440) regarding the emergency
                      matter. Staff must remind them that OYA Reporting Line calls are
                      not responded to during weekends or public holidays.

              4.      Civil Rights Violations or Criminal Matters

                      When a grievance concerns a civil rights violation or criminal matter
                      (e.g., abuse, harassment, neglect), staff must notify the
                      Professional Standards Office. If the matter is emergent, staff must
                      follow the Emergency Grievance process described above.

              5.      Forms Access and Collection

                      a)      Youth Grievance Filing Forms (YA 1300) must be openly
                              available to all youth and their parents/guardians within a
                              public area of each field office.

                              The forms must have a self-addressed envelope attached,
                              addressed to the field office, Attn: Field Supervisor.

                      b)      The Youth Grievance Filing Form must be available on the
                              OYA website.

                      c)      Staff may accept written grievances that are not written on a
                              Youth Grievance Filing Form.

Page 5 of 6        III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community   Effective: 01/15/2025
              6.       Field supervisors are local grievance coordinators for the offices
                       within their purview.

                       If a grievance pertains to a residential program, foster care
                       placement, or proctor care placement, the field supervisor will refer
                       the grievance to the Community Resources or Foster Care
                       manager to coordinate a response.

              7.       The field supervisor must contact the youth/youth’s representative
                       within seven working days of receiving a grievance to review the
                       matter.

              8.       Staff members who are the subject of a grievance or to whom the
                       grievance may pose a conflict of interest must not be the reviewer.

              9.       The results of the review must be provided in writing to the
                       youth/youth’s representative as soon as practicable and include the
                       steps necessary to initiate a subsequent grievance review if the
                       youth remains dissatisfied.

              10.      If a youth/youth’s representative submits a second written
                       grievance review request, the Community Services assistant
                       director or designee must review and respond within 30 calendar
                       days of receiving the request.

                       a)      The response must include instructions for filing an appeal to
                               the OYA director if the youth is dissatisfied with the
                               resolution.

                       b)      A copy of the decision must be sent to the youth as soon as
                               practicable following its completion.

              11.      Records

                       a)      The field supervisor must track grievances through an
                               electronic tracking system (e.g., spreadsheet).

                               The field supervisor must provide the agency grievance
                               coordinator access to the tracking system upon request.

                       b)      Original grievance forms, responses, and supporting
                               documentation must be retained for three years by the field
                               supervisor separately from youth case files.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 6 of 6         III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community   Effective: 01/15/2025
