                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                        Part 0 – Mission, Values, Principles

 Subject:
 Relationships with Youth and Their Families
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
 0: Mission, Values, Principles -2.2      0-2.2 (7/11)     04/29/2016
                                                                         Review:
                                          0-2.2 (12/08)                  04/29/2024
                                          0-2.2 (12/06)
                                          II-B-1.0 (11/02)
 Related            ORS 162.415 (Official Misconduct in the First Degree)
 Standards          ORS 163.452 (Custodial Sexual Misconduct)
 and                ORS 419B.005 through 419B.050 (Child Abuse Reporting)
 References:        Public Law 107-79 (Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003)
                    ORS Chapter 244 (Government Standards and Practices)
                    Oregon Government Ethics Commission: A Guide for Public
                     Officials
                    OYA policy: 0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                      0-2.1 (Professional Standards)
                      0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest)
                      I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                      Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                      I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Records, Reports, and Other
                      Materials)
                    OYA forms: YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved

 Professional Standards Office               _______________________
 Chief Investigator                          Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides staff with OYA’s expectations regarding professional
       boundaries with youth, former youth, and youth families in the following
       circumstances:

       1.      When a relationship with a youth or the youth’s family exists prior to the
               youth entering custody;
       2.      When a professional relationship is established with a youth or the youth’s
               family after the youth enters OYA physical or legal custody;


Page 1 of 12          0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families     Effective: 04/29/2016
       3.      Any other relationship where a potential conflict of interest or violation of
               professional boundaries may exist.

       A Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) document is attached to the policy to
       address situations staff may experience about interacting with youth or former
       youth and their families in the community. The FAQ also lists “red flag” behaviors
       identified by the National Institute of Corrections staff must mindfully avoid in
       order to maintain professional boundaries.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Dual relationships: Simultaneously maintaining a professional relationship and
       a private or family relationship with a youth, former youth, or the youth’s family.

       Family: Includes the biological or legal parents, siblings, child, other relatives,
       foster parents, legal guardians, spouse, domestic partner, caregivers and other
       primary relatives to a youth whether by blood, adoption, legal or social
       relationships. Family also includes any person identified by the youth (other than
       an OYA employee) who provides formal or informal support and whose positive
       involvement helps sustain the youth’s reformation process.

       Former youth: 1) Any youth no longer in OYA legal or physical custody who
       has not reached the age of majority (18); and 2) any youth who is at least 18
       years old for whom less than three years have elapsed since OYA legal or
       physical custody has terminated, and since supervision in the community by any
       supervising authority for the adjudication or conviction that resulted in OYA legal
       or physical custody has terminated.

       Inappropriate relationship: A relationship that develops between staff and
       youth outside a staff member’s professional capacity including but not limited to
       dating, sharing living accommodations, and intimate or sexual relationships,
       regardless of gender. Inappropriate relationships also include giving or accepting
       favors, special consideration, or unauthorized gifts.

       Potential conflict of interest: Any action, decision, or recommendation by a
       public official in official capacity, the effect of which could be the private
       economic gain or detriment of the official, relative, or business of the official or
       relative. Any relationship that is or appears to be not in the best interest of OYA.
       A conflict of interest could interfere with an individual’s ability to perform his or
       her duties and responsibilities objectively.

       Private business relationship: For purposes of this policy, a private business
       relationship involves lending or borrowing money; or being a partner, associate,
       consultant, or advisor in business matters.

       Professional capacity: Actions that are directly related to job responsibilities
       and are conducted during approved work hours in relation to a youth’s
       reformation.
       Professional relationship: A caring and supportive relationship that occurs
       between staff and youth while staff are performing official job duties in a
       professional capacity.
Page 2 of 12         0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
       Youth: A person placed in OYA legal or physical custody, who is supervised by
       OYA staff either in a close-custody facility or on parole or probation status in the
       community. Such persons include youth placed in the legal custody of the
       Oregon Department of Corrections (DOC) or other agencies, and placed in OYA
       physical custody.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA expects its staff to adhere to and demonstrate the values and standards
       expressed in the Principles of Conduct (OYA policy 0-2.0).

       This policy applies to relationships between OYA staff and – youth, former youth,
       and youths’/former youths’ families. Former youth include any youth no longer in
       OYA legal or physical custody who has not reached the age of majority (18); and
       any youth who is at least 18 years old for whom less than three years have
       elapsed since OYA legal or physical custody has terminated, and since
       supervision in the community by any supervising authority for the adjudication or
       conviction that resulted in OYA legal or physical custody has terminated.

       Professional relationships with youth, former youth, and their families are based
       on:
       • Respectful and productive communication where individual perspectives are
           acknowledged;
       • Supportive and encouraging interactions that provide opportunities for
           positive growth and learning new skills;
       • Trauma-informed conflict resolution; and
       • Individualized care that is responsive to cultural and developmental needs.

       OYA staff provide professional services to youth and youth families to assist
       youth in achieving reformation goals. A professional relationship begins the
       moment a youth is placed in OYA’s custody and staff interact with the youth while
       performing official job duties. Once a professional relationship is established with
       a youth, appropriate boundaries must be continued while the youth is in OYA
       physical or legal custody and as a former youth.

       Staff may not have dual relationships with youth, former youth, or youth families.
       Dual relationships may compromise staff and youth safety or objectivity. Dual
       relationships may also constitute criminal activity, result in staff loss of
       employment, or cause OYA to deny staff access to facilities or youth.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Relationships with youth, former youth, or youth families that were
               established prior to OYA physical or legal custody.

               1.    If staff have an established relationship with a youth or the youth’s
                     family that existed prior to OYA assuming the youth’s custody, staff
                     must report this relationship immediately to the staff’s supervisor
                     when the staff becomes aware of the youth’s commitment or
                     transfer to OYA.

Page 3 of 12         0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
                     a)      Staff must also notify their supervisors when staff become
                             aware of an established relationship with a former youth or
                             former youth’s family.

                     b)      Supervisors must ensure the staff member completes OYA
                             form YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review) to
                             document the notification.

               2.    OYA will take action to limit the contact between the staff member
                     and the youth during the youth’s placement in OYA physical or
                     legal custody.

                     Staff must avoid any circumstance where they provide direct or
                     indirect supervision of or have any case management influence
                     over a youth or former youth with whom a preexisting relationship
                     exists.

               3.    Staff must not access information regarding the youth or former
                     youth or share this information with the youth’s or former youth’s
                     family. This includes:

                     a)      Case file records and information;

                     b)      Any JJIS information; and

                     c)      Information regarding the youth or former youth from other
                             staff members.

               4.    Supervisor responsibilities

                     a)      The supervisor who receives notification from a staff
                             member regarding the staff member’s preexisting
                             relationship with a youth, former youth or a youth’s/former
                             youth’s family must ensure the staff member completes OYA
                             form YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review)
                             pursuant to OYA policy 0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest) and inform
                             other affected management staff.

                     b)      If cause exists to initiate corrective action, the supervisor
                             must inform the appropriate assistant director and the
                             Human Resources Office.
                     c)      The supervisor must develop and document a plan with the
                             staff member to ensure a dual relationship does not exist.

       B.      Relationships with youth, former youth, or their families established while
               the youth is/was in OYA physical or legal custody.

               1.    Staff must not engage in an inappropriate relationship with a youth,
                     former youth, or a youth’s/former youth’s family.

Page 4 of 12         0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
               2.   Staff may contact and interact with youth, former youth, and
                    youth’s/former youth’s families in a professional capacity.

                    a)      Contact and interactions in a professional capacity may
                            occur during a staff member’s non-working hours as long as
                            the contact or interaction does not constitute an
                            “inappropriate relationship” or “private business relationship,”
                            as defined in this policy.

                    b)      Any interaction or contact during a staff member’s non-
                            working hours other than incidental may be perceived as
                            inappropriate and must be reported by the staff member to
                            the staff member’s supervisor via a YA 8130 (Conflict of
                            Interest Notification and Review).

                            The contact must also be documented in JJIS notes by the
                            staff member or the supervisor.

                    c)      The supervisor will follow steps outlined above
                            (section IV.A.4.) to determine whether the staff member’s
                            reported contact or interaction is allowable, and notify the
                            youth’s JPPO of the contact if the youth is on OYA
                            community supervision.

               3.   Business relationships

                    A staff member and staff member’s immediate family must not have
                    private business relationships with youth, former youth, or their
                    families. Private business relationships include either party lending
                    or borrowing money; or being a partner, associate, consultant, or
                    advisor in business matters.

                    a)      Exception:

                            When no option is available but to have a private business
                            relationship with a youth’s or former youth’s family member,
                            the staff member must notify the staff member’s supervisor
                            of the situation through the conflict of interest notification
                            process described in OYA policy 0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest).
                    b)      Sale of items produced by youth

                            Staff may purchase items produced by youth through
                            vocational or educational programs when the items are
                            available to members of the general public in the same way.
                            This is not considered a private business relationship.

               4.   The development of an inappropriate or private business
                    relationship with a youth or former youth may constitute criminal
                    activity, result in a loss of employment, or denial of access to
                    facilities or youth.

Page 5 of 12        0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
       C.      Gifts

               1.      Youth on community supervision, former youth, and their families

                       Staff may purchase youth on community supervision, former youth,
                       or youth/former youth families an inexpensive meal, food item, or
                       non-alcoholic beverage during a professional meeting or
                       professional contact.

                       a)      A staff member must have documented authorization from
                               the staff member’s supervisor prior to the purchase.

                       b)      The staff member’s supervisor must ensure there is no
                               conflict of interest associated with the purchase, and that the
                               purchase has a monetary value of $10 or less (see OYA
                               policies 0-2.4 Conflict of Interest and 0-2.1 Professional
                               Standards).

               2.      Youth on community supervision and their families

                       a)      A youth’s assigned JPPO or field supervisor may purchase a
                               youth on community supervision or the youth’s family an
                               inexpensive meal, food item, or non-alcoholic beverage
                               during an unplanned professional meeting or contact if the
                               purchased item meets the criteria listed in paragraph 1.b
                               above.

                       b)      After-action authorization must be requested by the staff
                               member, and documented in the youth’s JJIS notes by the
                               staff member or the staff member’s supervisor.

               3.      Former youth and their families

                       a)      A purchase of an inexpensive meal, food item, or non-
                               alcoholic beverage for a former youth or former youth’s
                               family by a staff member during an unplanned professional
                               meeting or professional contact may be appropriate if the
                               item meets the criteria listed in paragraph 1.b above.

                       b)      After-action authorization must be requested by the staff
                               member, and documented in the former youth’s JJIS notes
                               by the staff member or the staff member’s supervisor.

               4.      Youth residing in facilities

                       a)      Staff may not give gifts, including food or beverages, to
                               youth who reside in OYA facilities. Youth who reside in OYA
                               facilities may receive incentive awards, stipends, or
                               donations as described in OYA policy (I-B-5.0 Agency
                               Acceptance of Donations; I-B-3.1 Offender Welfare Account;

Page 6 of 12           0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
                             I-B-3.0 Youth Trust Accounts; II-B-2.0 Behavior
                             Management – Incentives and Reinforcement).

                      b)     A youth’s assigned JPPO or field supervisor may purchase
                             the youth an inexpensive meal, food item, or non-alcoholic
                             beverage during a professional contact in an OYA facility, if
                             the item meets the criteria and approval listed in paragraph 1
                             above and does not conflict with the facility’s operating
                             protocols.

               5.     Accepting gifts from youth, former youth, or their families

                      a)     Staff may accept unsolicited tokens or awards of
                             appreciation of nominal value from youth, former youth, or
                             youth/former youth families.

                      b)     The staff member must notify the staff member’s supervisor
                             of the gift.

                      c)     The staff member’s supervisor must ensure there is no
                             conflict of interest associated with the gift (see OYA policies
                             0-2.1 Professional Standards and 0-2.4 Conflict of Interest).

       D.      In the event of a circumstance where a potential conflict of interest, conflict
               with this policy, or breach of professional boundaries exists, the staff
               member must notify, in writing, the staff member’s supervisor as soon as
               the staff member knows of the event or circumstance.

               OYA form YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review) will be
               used to document the notification.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO

       A Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) document is attached to this policy to
       provide additional information for staff.




Page 7 of 12         0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) – Relationships with Youth and Their Families
1. What is the agency’s concern regarding staff relationships with youth and youth
   families?

   OYA is concerned about making sure that staff always establish professional
   boundaries with youth and youth families so they can maintain their objectivity. The
   ethics of our profession require that staff do not establish “dual relationships” with
   youth. Dual relationships occur when staff simultaneously maintain relationships with
   a youth, former youth, or youth’s/former youth’s family as a juvenile justice
   professional and as a private person.

   OYA will take action to avoid dual relationships in the event a staff member has a
   relationship with a youth that existed prior to the youth entering OYA physical or
   legal custody. In essence, OYA will prohibit the staff from working in a professional
   capacity with the youth if this circumstance exists.

2. Why is this important?

   Professional relationships between OYA staff and youth in OYA custody result in
   imbalances of power. Many staff have control of or influence over youth while in our
   facilities or on community supervision. Staff also have access to restricted
   information (e.g., psychological, medical, abuse and neglect information) about
   youth, former youth, and their families. This information would not be disclosed to
   staff in a non-professional capacity. Because of this access to information and
   possible control or influence over youth, staff must engage in activities limited to
   those in a professional capacity. Some careers have ended because of disregard for
   these limits.

3. My nephew, niece, grandson, or granddaughter has been committed to OYA. What
   steps must I take to comply with this policy?

   This needs to be reported to your supervisor immediately. A plan will be developed
   to ensure that you will have no professional responsibility for the care, supervision or
   treatment of the youth (hence, avoiding a dual relationship). Policy also prohibits
   staff from accessing case file information or other information concerning the youth.

4. What about contacts within the community with OYA youth or former youth that
   occur while I’m off duty?

   OYA is not concerned with incidental contact with youth or former youth that take
   place in the community (e.g., while shopping, or contact with a youth who is working
   at a gas station where you purchase fuel). These interactions are referred to as
   “incidental” and staff need not take action if these contacts occur. However, brief
   contacts with youth that lead to social or business interactions must be reported
   (e.g., contact that leads to a professional conversation over coffee in a public area).
   The same is true if social or private business relationships are entered into with
   members of the youth’s family. OYA staff must not jeopardize their professional
   objectivities or appear to violate professional boundaries. Reporting the contact
   allows the staff member’s supervisor to determine whether the contact is/was
   appropriate and may continue or not.



Page 8 of 12       0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) – Relationships with Youth and Their Families
5. Can I communicate with youth, former youth, or their families through social media?

   Allowing youth, former youth, or their families to view your personal life information is
   not appropriate. You must continue to maintain professional boundaries with youth,
   former youth, and their families outside of the workplace. For example, friending a
   youth or former youth on your personal Facebook account is not appropriate as they
   may be exposed to your personal life. If you maintain a professional social media
   site for professional information and communication (e.g., LinkedIn), it may be
   appropriate for use with youth, former youth, or their families. Your supervisor can
   help make that determination.

   Any social media contact (or request for contact) must be reported (via YA 8130
   Conflict of Interest Notification and Review) to your supervisor for discussion and
   approval, and to establish a plan to prevent an inappropriate or private business
   relationship, if needed.

6. What are the circumstances that constitute a violation of professional boundaries
   with youth or former youth?

   The following behavior is prohibited:

   a) Engaging in inappropriate relationships or private business relationships with
      youth, former youth, or their families.

       This includes:
        dating;
        sharing living accommodations;
        intimate or sexual relationships;
        lending or borrowing money; or
        being a partner, associate, consultant, or advisor in business matters.

   b) Giving or accepting money;

   c) Giving or accepting unauthorized gifts;

   d) Favors or special considerations of any kind (no matter how trivial they may
      seem).

   e) Exchanging personal information (e.g., personal phone numbers, home
      addresses, personal e-mail addresses, personal social media networking).

   f) Inappropriate physical contact and any type of horseplay.

   g) Having youth perform services or produce items for staff outside of OYA policy or
      procedure.

   h) Contacting the youth, former youth, or their family via telephone, e-mail, fax, mail,
      or social media networking, except in a professional capacity.




Page 9 of 12        0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) – Relationships with Youth and Their Families
   i) Allowing youth or former youth to access a staff member’s personal property.
      This includes entering a staff member’s vehicle or residence. (See question 7 for
      reporting potential conflicts of interest in this scenario.)

   j) Giving prohibited items (contraband) to youth.

   k) A staff member using a professional relationship with a youth, former youth, or
      youth’s family to further the staff member’s personal, religious, political, sexual,
      or financial interests.

7. What am I required to do if a potential violation of professional boundaries exists?

   This is considered a potential conflict of interest and must be reported in writing (via
   YA 8130 Conflict of Interest Notification and Review) to your supervisor for
   discussion and to establish a plan to prevent an inappropriate or private business
   relationship, if needed. The following are examples of circumstances that must be
   reported.

   a) A staff member enters into a dating relationship with a person and learns the
      person has a child in OYA physical or legal custody in another facility or state
      region.

   b) A staff member learns that the staff member’s son or daughter is dating a former
      youth who was supervised by the staff member while the former youth was in
      OYA physical or legal custody.

   c) A former youth and staff member who had a previous OYA professional
      relationship attend the same organization meetings or events (e.g., church,
      sports club/team, and community service clubs) and interact with each other
      during the meetings or events.

8. What action should the supervisor take in response to the circumstance described in
   Question # 7?

   The supervisor should respond to the circumstance as a potential conflict of interest.
   The supervisor must ensure the staff member completes OYA form
   YA 8130 (Conflict of Interest Notification and Review) pursuant to OYA policy 0-2.4
   (Conflict of Interest). Depending on the details of the circumstance, a plan may be
   established with the staff member to prevent an actual conflict of interest.

9. Sometimes youth contact me at work to inform me of their progresses or significant
   events in their lives. What is the agency’s expectation in this circumstance?

   As long as this contact remains within the scope of a professional capacity (the
   youth contacts you at work and the interaction is restricted to issues concerning the
   youth’s reformation), then it is acceptable. This is especially true if the contact is part
   of the youth’s case plan. For example, the case plan could include language that
   directs the youth to call the QMHP every two weeks for the first three months after
   release from a YCF. The contact must be documented in the youth’s JJIS case
   notes.


Page 10 of 12        0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) – Relationships with Youth and Their Families
   If a youth or former youth contacts a staff member for reasons that are outside of the
   case plan, to avoid any appearance of a violation of professional boundaries, the
   staff member should report the contact to the staff member’s supervisor after. For
   case management reasons, if the youth is in OYA physical or legal custody the
   youth’s juvenile parole/probation officer (JPPO) should be notified of the contact.
   The JPPO or contacted staff member will document the contact in the youth’s JJIS
   case notes. However, if a staff member provides the youth the staff member’s home
   address or personal contact information (actions that may lead to a relationship
   beyond the scope of a professional relationship), then a violation of this policy has
   occurred.

10. The policy refers to activities that may constitute criminal activity. What conduct is
    the policy referring to?

   There are at least two types of crimes that staff could be charged with depending on
   the nature and circumstances of on- or off-duty conduct. If a dating, intimate, or
   sexual relationship is established, the crime of Custodial Sexual Misconduct may
   have been committed. Regardless of whether a crime has been committed,
   establishing a dating, intimate, or sexual relationship with a youth is unethical and a
   violation of OYA policy.

   Another crime that staff could be charged with is Official Misconduct. Official
   Misconduct occurs when a staff member, with intent to obtain a benefit or to harm
   another, knowingly fails to perform a duty imposed upon the public servant by law or
   one clearly inherent in the nature of office or if the staff knowingly performs an act
   constituting an unauthorized exercise in official duties.

11. Sexual misconduct by corrections and juvenile justice staff has received media
    attention. What can I do to protect myself or avoid the appearance of such conduct?

   Sexual misconduct in juvenile corrections does occur. It is imperative that staff
   continually reevaluate themselves in light of the ethics of their profession,
   professional standards, OYA policy, the national Prison Rape Elimination Act
   (PREA) standards, and possible risk factors associated with sexual misconduct. If
   issues related to professional boundaries are indicated through self-assessment,
   staff should seek guidance from a supervisor.

   The following events, actions, and activities have been identified by the National
   Institute of Corrections as “Red Flags” indicating the potential of staff sexual
   misconduct.

   If staff observe a coworker engage in one or more of the “Red Flags” listed below,
   they should address their concerns with their coworker and seek guidance from a
   supervisor. This is difficult to do. If experience is our guide, experience has
   demonstrated that staff we would never suspect or believe capable of sexual
   misconduct have unfortunately engaged in such behavior. Stressful events and
   difficult circumstances can have a debilitating effect on staff judgment. Addressing
   the “Red Flag” behaviors listed below can help staff avoid the tragedy of sexual
   misconduct.

   Indicators of possible staff sexual misconduct:
Page 11 of 12        0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) – Relationships with Youth and Their Families

   •   Over-identifying with the youth (“my youth”) or their issues (i.e. blind to youth’s
       actions);
   •   Reluctance to closely supervise a particular youth;
   •   Early termination of supervision outside of normal practices;
   •   Horseplay, interaction with sexual overtones between staff and youth;
   •   Youth knowing personal/private information about staff;
   •   Staff isolation from others;
   •   Youth has letters or photos of staff;
   •   Staff granting special requests or showing favoritism;
   •   Youth appearing in the office when not scheduled or required;
   •   Staff spending an unexplainable amount of time with a youth;
   •   Excessive telephone calls to and from staff/youth with no official purpose;
   •   Staff in the office during “off hours”;
   •   Staff overly concerned about a youth;
   •   Drastic change in behavior or appearance of a youth or staff – dress, makeup,
       hair;
   •   Staff allowing youth to perform a service such as a car repair, housecleaning
       etc.;
   •   High/low number of youth grievances;
   •   Staff intercepting youth violation (incident) reports, or attempting to persuade
       another staff from filing a probation/parole violation against the youth;
   •   Staff can’t account for time;
   •   Staff’s family being involved with youth’s family;
   •   Staff transporting youth in their private car to appointments, etc.;
   •   Staff in personal crisis (divorce, ill health, bankruptcy, death in family) and
       appears to be participating in any of the scenarios on this list;
   •   Staff consistently works more overtime than peers;
   •   Staff has excessive knowledge about a youth and the youth’s family;
   •   Staff intervening, or helping with the youth’s personal life, legal affairs, etc., when
       it is not necessary to the supervision of that youth;
   •   Staff accepting or giving unauthorized gifts to or from a youth;
   •   Staff testifying for a youth, or requesting special treatment for a youth;
   •   Overheard conversations between staff and youth that are sexualized in nature,
       or refer to the physical attributes of staff or youth;
   •   Sexual or personal banter between staff or staff and youth;
   •   Youth using staff’s first name when it is not the standard procedure in the
       agency, facility, or office.




Page 12 of 12        0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families   Effective: 04/29/2016
