                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 OYA Information Technology Governance
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                  Review/Revision:
 C: Property Management – 10.0          I-C-10.0 (08/25) 06/22/2026 None
                                        I-C-10.0 (04/25)
                                        I-C-10.0 (10/22)
 Related             OAR 166-300 State Agency General Records Retention Schedule
 Standards           DAS Enterprise Information Services – Agency Guide to IT
 and                  Governance
 References:         OYA Information Technology Governance Committee Charter
                     IT Governance Decision Log
                     OYA policy: I-E-1.1 OYA Administrative Rule, Policy, Procedure,
                      and Protocol Development
 Related             OYA IT Governance Process
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Assistant Director of Business
 Services                                 _________________________
                                          Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes a formal Information Technology (IT) Governance
       Program. The policy and the related agency-wide processes ensure alignment
       among OYA IT investments, the agency’s business strategy, and desired
       outcomes to achieve effective and efficient use of information technology.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Business: The core mission and operations of OYA, which include managing
       juvenile justice programs, rehabilitation efforts for youth, public safety, and the
       overall effectiveness of services delivered to youth, families, and communities. It
       also encompasses internal administrative functions, such as resource
       management, casework processing, and the technology that supports them.

       IT governance: The mechanism by which an organization implements,
       manages, and monitors its IT investments to achieve effective and efficient use
       of information technology.

       IT Governance Committee (ITGC): The group that oversees OYA IT
       investments to ensure that IT investment decisions (a) deliver value to the
       business; (b) are aligned with business strategic goals and priorities; (c) are
       within acceptable levels of risk, and (d) are aligned with State guidance for IT
Page 1 of 4    I-C-10.0 OYA Information Technology Governance       Effective: 06/22/2026
       governance. The committee assumes responsibility for strategic decisions
       regarding IT resources and investments to support OYA’s mission.

       IT investment: Expenditure of financial or staff resources on information
       technology, including computing infrastructure or other technological services
       and applications that support the daily operations and the agency's mission.

       IT request: A formal submission requesting the expenditure of IT resources
       (either financial or staff) on information technology, including computing
       infrastructure or other technology services and applications in support of the daily
       operations and the agency's mission.

       OYA Executive Team: An executive staff group that provides oversight of
       agency operations. Membership includes the director, deputy director, assistant
       directors, and other persons as requested by the executive team.

III.   POLICY:

       IT investments and technological solutions are evaluated and implemented to
       support an inclusive and equitable environment, ensuring that technology serves
       the needs of all individuals within OYA, including youth, staff, and stakeholders,
       without bias or discrimination.

       This policy applies to anyone at OYA who is involved in IT decisions, whether
       they request, influence, or support them. All IT decisions must follow the
       standards below to keep technological efforts coordinated and prevent confusion.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA IT Governance Process

              1.     OYA must have a written agencywide process documenting how IT
                     investments are identified, analyzed, reviewed, and approved or
                     deferred. (See OYA IT Governance Process.)

              2.     The written process must also describe how OYA monitors
                     anticipated IT investment results.

       B.     OYA’s IT Governance Structure

              1.     OYA’s IT governance body is the IT Governance Committee
                     (ITGC).

              2.     The ITGC must have a charter approved by the OYA Executive
                     Team.

              3.     As referenced in the ITGC Charter, the committee is composed of
                     seven voting members and three nonvoting members. The charter
                     further specifies the roles and composition of these members.

              4.     The ITGC is the sole authority for approving IT investments. The
                     ITGC must operate by consensus. If consensus cannot be reached,
Page 2 of 4   I-C-10.0 OYA Information Technology Governance   Effective: 06/22/2026
                     decisions require a two-thirds majority vote of voting members
                     present, provided a quorum is met. Quorum is defined as a simple
                     majority of voting members. The ITGC chair may make a final
                     decision only if a quorum is met, but no resolution occurs after two
                     voting attempts.

              5.     As referenced in the ITGC Charter, the committee determines
                     priorities and makes decisions regarding IT requests to ensure that
                     IT investments are aligned with business strategies and desired
                     outcomes. ITGC must apply a weighted prioritization model
                     described in the OYA IT Governance Process document.

              6.     The ITGC must establish assurance checkpoints so that Executive
                     Branch projects do not conflict or impact enterprise initiatives that
                     are time-bound.

              7.     The ITGC must ensure accountability in IT governance approvals,
                     decision-making, and risk acceptance.

              8.     The ITGC must meet quarterly and perform a portfolio review
                     annually, by June 1 of each year. The annual review ensures that
                     each investment has delivered on its stated objectives and
                     achieved the desired outcomes, providing an opportunity for
                     strategic adjustments when necessary.

                     a)     The IS Management Team must prepare the proposed
                            annual updates.

                     b)     ITGC must review the updates and provide any additional
                            recommendations for the OYA director.

                     c)     The OYA director must approve of the portfolio by June 1
                            each year.

              9.     The ITGC must evaluate emerging technologies such as Artificial
                     Intelligence (AI) for ethical use, data privacy, and security in
                     alignment with OYA’s mission, vision, and values and the State of
                     Oregon’s AI guidelines.

              10.    Projects must be escalated to the ITGC based on the criteria and
                     thresholds outlined in Section 6.2 of the IT Governance Process.
                     Assurance checkpoints, as defined in subsection 6 above, will be
                     applied as appropriate.

                     These criteria include effort, budget, risk level, data classification,
                     external dependencies, and strategic impact. Assurance
                     checkpoints must also be applied to ensure Executive Branch
                     Projects do not conflict with enterprise initiatives.

       C.     This policy must be reviewed for possible updates at least every two years
              in accordance with OYA policy I-E-1.1 OYA Administrative Rule, Policy,
              Procedure, and Protocol Development.
Page 3 of 4   I-C-10.0 OYA Information Technology Governance     Effective: 06/22/2026
       D.     Documentation

              The ITGC must ensure that all governance decisions, including approvals,
              risk considerations, outcomes, and accountable parties, are formally
              documented and traceable. All ITGC-related documentation must be
              retained in accordance with OAR 166-300 State Agency General Records
              Retention Schedule to support compliance, audit readiness, and long-term
              accountability.

       E.     The IS Management Team must create and publish ITGC approved
              quarterly and annual reports on the OYA public internet website.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4   I-C-10.0 OYA Information Technology Governance   Effective: 06/22/2026
