                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services [Facilities]

 Subject:
 Visits with Youth
 Section – Policy Number:                      Supersedes:   Effective Date:   Date of Last
 E: Programming – 2.5                  II-E-2.5 (9/13)  06/22/2026
                                                                      Review/Revision:
                                       II-E-2.5 (7/11)                None
                                       II-E-2.5 (08/05)
                                       II-E-2.5 (10/03)
 Related        OAR 416 Division 420 (OYA Facility Access, Tours, and Youth in
 Standards        Custody Visitation)
 and            OAR 416 Division 800 (Criminal Records Checks)
 References:    American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                  Correctional Facilities; 5-JCF-3A-20 (Approved Visitors);
                  5-JCF-3A-21 (Visitation Area)
                OYA policy: I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian and Family Involvement in
                  Youth Reformation
                  I-E-3.0 OYA External Communications
                  II-A-1.0 Facility Access
                  II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility
                OYA forms: YA 4006 Request to Visit
                  YA 4007 Facility Access Level 1 Visitors and Guests
                  YA 4206 Youth Visitation Denial
 Related        Facility Local Operating Protocol
 Procedures:    FAC II-E-2.5 Visitor Computerized Criminal Records Checks.
                FAC II-E-2.5(a) Youth Internet-based Video Calls
 Policy Owner:                         Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director
                                               ________________________
                                               Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy delineates how staff review a request to visit a youth for approval or
       denial.

       Information regarding visitor entry into facilities is delineated in OYA policy
       II-A-1.0 Facility Access. Information regarding media representative visits with
       youth is delineated in OYA policy I-E-3.0 OYA External Communications.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Computerized Criminal Records Check: A check of criminal youth information
       conducted through use of the Law Enforcement Data Systems (LEDS), including
       information from the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) National Crime

Page 1 of 7                     II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                Effective: 06/22/2026
       Information Center (NCIC), and the National Law Enforcement
       Telecommunications System (NLETS).

       Multidisciplinary Team (MDT): A team of individuals working collaboratively to
       develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan that is culturally
       competent and gender-specific for each youth committed to the Oregon Youth
       Authority (OYA). The MDT is based on a core team membership consisting of the
       youth, OYA primary case manager, placement representative, QMHP
       (facility)/treatment provider (community), tribal representative (for youth enrolled
       in one of one of Oregon’s federally recognized tribes) and the parents/guardians.
       Additional team members are identified by the core team based on the youth
       youth’s Risk Needs Assessment, identified criminogenic needs and placement.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes the positive impact of youth visits with family and community
       members on youth reformation. OYA encourages visits with family and others
       who have a positive influence on a youth’s life. Visits also give youth
       opportunities to maintain prosocial relationships which promote a successful
       reentry into communities.

       Visits in OYA facilities are permitted when the visit furthers a youth’s case plan
       and is consistent with the safe, secure and orderly management and operation of
       the facility.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA staff must supervise youth visits in person. Cameras may not be
              used to replace staff in-person supervision.

       B.     The superintendent/camp director must designate an OYA staff member
              who is responsible for ensuring accurate visitation schedules are
              displayed on the facility’s public website, and included in the parent
              orientation packets with instructions on how to schedule a visit.

       C.     OYA staff must inform visitors of applicable visiting rules, policies, and
              protocols prior to allowing visitors entry to OYA facilities, including the
              following:

              1.     Contact with individual youth is limited to those youth the visitor is
                     authorized to visit, unless specifically authorized by the facility
                     superintendent/camp director;

              2.     Compliance with OYA policy II-A-1.0 Facility Access regarding
                     searches of persons and property, prohibited items in facilities,
                     physical contact with youth, and appropriate dress;

                     Staff must ensure the visitor reads and signs OYA form YA 4007
                     Facility Access Level 1 Visitors and Guests prior to entering a
                     facility to visit a youth. The YA 4007 form outlines what items a
                     visitor may bring into a facility, appropriate dress, and appropriate
                     youth contact.
Page 2 of 7                  II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                  Effective: 06/22/2026
              3.     Presentation of valid picture identification for visitors ages 13 and
                     older;
              4.     Visitors less than age 18 must be accompanied by a parent or
                     guardian;

              5.     Compliance with the visiting schedule, including the day, time, and
                     length of visit allowed, and check-in at the designated reception
                     area; and

              6.     Limited number of visitors when required by space, supervision or
                     security.

       D.     Staff may refuse a visitor entry or remove the visitor from the facility if a
              visitor fails to comply with applicable OYA rules, policy, or local protocols.

       E.     Request to Visit (YA 4006)

              1.     Case coordinators or camp counselors must ensure an OYA form
                     YA 4006 Request to Visit is completed by or on behalf of each
                     prospective visitor, regardless of age.

              2.     Staff may obtain information by phone and complete a YA 4006 on
                     behalf of a prospective visitor in time-sensitive situations. Staff must
                     read the form contents to the prospective visitor to ensure the
                     prospective visitor is aware of why they are providing the
                     information and how it will be used.

              3.     Staff may receive faxed copies of YA 4006s.

              4.     Staff must forward incoming completed YA 4006s to the youth’s
                     juvenile parole/probation officer (JPPO) or case coordinator/camp
                     counselor.

       F.     Visitor MDT Review

              1.     According to OAR 416-420-0030, the MDT will consider all
                     requests to visit and allow or deny visitation on the basis of what
                     would best benefit the youth, within the interests of facility security
                     and order.

              2.     Requests to visit will be reviewed, approved, or denied by the
                     youth’s JPPO (for adjudicated youth) and the youth’s
                     multidisciplinary team (MDT).

              3.     When conflicts arise in the approval process, the request will be
                     reviewed by the facility superintendent/camp director and the
                     JPPO’s field supervisor.

                     If the issue is not resolved, the Facility Services assistant director
                     will make the final decision.


Page 3 of 7                 II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                  Effective: 06/22/2026
              4.   According to OAR 416-420-0030, the MDT will consider the
                   following when making a determination to approve or deny a
                   Request to Visit:

                   a)    The relationship that exists between the youth and the
                         visitor;

                   b)    The youth’s case plan;

                   c)    The goals for the visit;

                   d)    Facility security and order;

                   e)    The youth’s wishes;

                   f)    Orders of the court; and

                   g)    Department of Corrections (DOC) recommendations for
                         youth in the physical custody of OYA and legal custody of
                         DOC.

              5.   The MDT must limit visitation to those persons who are integral to
                   the youth’s case plan. Those persons include the following:

                   a)    Family members, including but not limited to parents,
                         siblings, children of youth, legal guardians, members of
                         stepfamilies, surrogate parents, or grandparents;

                   b)    Youth’s attorney;

                   c)    Persons involved in treatment planning, including but not
                         limited to mentors, transition resources, placement options,
                         or representatives of tribal governments; and

                   d)    Other persons, as approved on a case-by-case basis by the
                         youth’s JPPO, MDT, and the facility superintendent/camp
                         director.

              6.   The MDT may deny a person’s request to visit for the following
                   reasons:

                   a)    The person has abused, may abuse, or is alleged to have
                         abused a youth;

                   b)    The person has encouraged the youth to violate the law or
                         disobey OYA rules, policies or procedures;

                   c)    The person has violated OYA rules, policies or procedures;

                   d)    There is reasonable cause to believe the person intends to
                         aid a youth in escaping;


Page 4 of 7               II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth               Effective: 06/22/2026
                     e)     The person has interfered with the order, security or
                            operations of the facility and there is reasonable cause to
                            believe the person will do so again;

                     f)     The requested time for the person’s visit interferes with daily
                            programming;

                     g)     The visit interferes with the youth’s overall reformation;

                     h)     The court, DOC, or community corrections has ordered that
                            the person not visit;

                     i)     The youth or the youth's parent or legal guardian has
                            requested that the person not visit;

                     j)     The person is a former OYA staff, volunteer, or contractor
                            who engaged in an inappropriate relationship with a youth;

                     k)     The person has an active warrant for arrest; or

                     l)     The person is on supervision in the community by any
                            supervising authority.

                            The request will be reviewed by the youth’s JPPO, MDT and
                            the facility superintendent/camp director prior to approval or
                            denial. The person’s supervising authority must also approve
                            or deny the visit.

              7.     If the request to visit is denied, the MDT must follow section G
                     below.

              8.     If the request to visit is approved, the MDT must ensure a
                     computerized criminal records check, JJIS check, or both are
                     completed as required in sections H and I below.

       G.     Visitation Denial

              1.     Immediate family member denials

                     a)     If the requestor is an immediate family member, the
                            proposed denial must be reviewed by the
                            superintendent/camp director and field supervisor for
                            approval or denial.

                     b)     If the facility superintendent/camp director and field
                            supervisor affirm the visitation denial, the denial must be
                            forwarded to the Facility Services assistant director.

                     c)     The Facility Services assistant director may approve or deny
                            the visitor based on their review.



Page 5 of 7                 II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                  Effective: 06/22/2026
              2.    All denials

                    When any request to visit is denied, facility staff must notify the
                    requestor and the youth in writing via OYA form YA 4206 (Youth
                    Visitation Denial).

                    a)      The written denial must inform the youth that the youth may
                            appeal the decision by following the youth grievance process
                            outlined in OAR 416-020 Youth Grievance Process and OYA
                            policy II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility.

                    b)      The written denial must inform the requestor that the
                            requestor may appeal the decision by writing to the facility
                            superintendent/camp director within 30 days of receiving the
                            YA 4206.

                            The superintendent/camp director must respond to the
                            requestor’s appeal within five working days of receipt.

       H.     Computerized Criminal Records Checks

              1.    LEDS-certified staff must complete computerized criminal records
                    checks on prospective visitors ages 15 and older.

              2.    LEDS-certified staff will use the information provided on the
                    YA 4006 to complete a computerized criminal records check.

              3.    LEDS-certified staff may complete a computerized criminal records
                    check without the prospective visitor’s signature. A signature is
                    preferred whenever possible.

              4.    Designated managers who have proper clearance must use
                    information obtained through a computerized criminal records
                    check to assist in assessing supervision during the visit, safety, and
                    security of the facility.

                    A visitor may be denied entry to a facility if adequate supervision
                    cannot be provided during the visit to mitigate safety and security
                    risks based on the visitor's criminal record.

                    See facilitywide procedure FAC II-E-2.5 Visitor Computerized
                    Criminal Records Checks.

              5.    The case coordinator or camp counselor must notify the JPPO if a
                    youth's visitor is denied entry into a facility.

       I.     JJIS Checks

              A youth’s JPPO or case coordinator must complete a JJIS check on the
              youth’s prospective visitors who are ages 12 to 24. Information obtained
              through JJIS will be reviewed by the youth’s MDT to assist in assessing
              supervision during the visits, safety, and security of the facility.
Page 6 of 7                 II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                Effective: 06/22/2026
       J.     JJIS Documentation

              Staff must document approval or denial of each visitor by entering the
              visitor’s name in the youth’s JJIS “persons” tab.

              Staff must also add the “contact condition” visiting status. Options are
              “approved,” “not approved,” and “approved with conditions.”

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES
       A.     Each facility must have a local operating protocol to address the following
              topics:

              1.     Who a visitor must contact to schedule a visit;

              2.     Whether the facility visiting schedule is open to all approved visitors
                     or by appointment only;

              3.     How staff will process visitor purchases and food consumption
                     (e.g., vending machine, canteen, cash only);

              4.     Visitor and youth restroom use during visits (e.g., separate
                     restrooms for visitors and youth; searches);

              5.     Any special process for supervising child visitors (e.g., children’s
                     play area);

              6.     Limited number of visitors or visit sessions a youth may have due to
                     physical plant layout or staffing patterns; and

              7.     Visitor and youth photographs (if available).

       B.     The local protocols must be reviewed by the Facility Services assistant
              director, or designee, prior to implementation.




Page 7 of 7                 II-E-2.5 Visits with Youth                  Effective: 06/22/2026
