                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Agency Training Program
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                    I-D-3.8 (06/21)                  Review/Revision:
 D: Personnel Management – 3.8 I-D-3.8 (07/14)         08/04/2025    None
                                    I-D-3.8 (09/09)
                                    I-D-3.8 (09/02)
                                    I-D-2.11 (06/99)
 Related         American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
 Standards        Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-6E-01 (Staff Development);
 and              4-JCF-6E-02 (Training Plan); 4-JCF-6E-03 (Training Advisory
 References:      Committee)
                 DAS CHRO policy 10.040.01 (Statewide Workforce Learning and
                  Development)
                 OYA policy:I-D-3.9 (Staff Training and Development)
 Related         TA I-D-3.8 Curriculum Development Workgroups
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Training Academy Director
                                          _______________________
                                          Jana McLellan, Interim Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy describes OYA’s training program and the roles of the Training
       Advisory Committee, Curriculum Development Workgroup, and the Training
       Academy.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Curriculum development workgroup: A group of staff representing a cross-
       section of the agency convened to detail course descriptions, learning outcomes,
       and evaluation methods for specific training topics or needs. Membership varies
       according to topic and need and must include decision-makers, content experts,
       and representatives of marginalized communities.

       Training Advisory Committee (TAC): An agency committee that assesses
       agency training needs and aligns training strategies to most effectively support
       and implement agency (and juvenile justice) business initiatives. Membership
       must include the Training Academy director and representative decision-makers
       from all OYA departments, professional trainers, and OYA training end users.



Page 1 of 5                   I-D-3.8 Agency Training Program                 Effective: 08/04/2025
III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. It is critical that our agency training program educates staff on the
       historically racist foundation of the juvenile justice system, its impact on
       marginalized groups, and the connection to current issues within juvenile justice.
       It is also imperative that staff professional development opportunities are
       equitable, do not perpetuate disparate impacts to marginalize groups, and
       balance being responsible stewards of state resources. It is also imperative that
       staff be educated on bias, develop a self-awareness of their own biases and how
       to prevent bias from impacting decision points within their spheres of influence.

       OYA values a productive, motivated, culturally responsive, and culturally diverse
       workforce. OYA has a coordinated, comprehensive system of staff development
       and training designed for the following purposes:
       • To help meet internal and external mandates by providing the training
          necessary to execute agency policies and procedures in a consistent and
          timely manner;
       • To provide effective services to youth by ensuring that staff have the basic
          competencies to carry out their job responsibilities;
       • To enhance staff knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies to perform
          jobs more efficiently and effectively; and
       • To provide staff with opportunities for continued personal and professional
          development.

       The Training Academy coordinates and facilitates the agency’s training program
       to ensure the training needs of OYA’s offices and facilities are met in a consistent
       manner that reflects the agency’s mission and values. The Training Academy
       ensures all OYA staff training curriculum and lesson plans meet recognized
       professional standards.

       The Training Academy also develops partnerships with other state agencies,
       county juvenile departments, correctional and juvenile justice organizations, and
       colleges in an effort to have a consistent and competent continuum of services
       throughout Oregon.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Training program

              OYA’s training program is designed to assess current and forecast future
              workforce development skills and competencies; and develop, implement,
              and monitor training within the agency. This program:

              1.     Identifies and plans for OYA training essential to all staff;

              2.     Addresses specialized needs and skills;
Page 2 of 5                 I-D-3.8 Agency Training Program             Effective: 08/04/2025
              3.    Supports workforce development relative to implementation of new
                    agency initiatives;

              4.    Assures that training is current, timely, and proactively managed
                    over time; and

              5.    Maintains the agency’s curriculum catalog of training events and
                    learning initiatives.

       B.     Agency responsibilities

              The training program includes agency staff and stakeholder participation
              to ensure the curriculum and implementation plans reflect the OYA
              mission, values, and training goals.

              1.    Training Advisory Committee (TAC)

                    a)     Reviews agency initiatives and training needs;

                    b)     Ensures business initiatives that require training have clearly
                           defined outcomes (with measures of effectiveness);

                    c)     Reviews and recommends training plans to executive team;

                    d)     Approves timelines for agency training plan;

                    e)     Reviews and approves methodologies for training;

                    f)     Reviews and approves criteria for prioritizing training
                           initiatives and exceptions to training initiatives;

                    g)     Reviews training requests for consistency with approved
                           financial program plans and policies;

                    h)     Provides capacity for and aid in the overall planning and
                           evaluation of training programs;

                    i)     Proposes new or revised training policies and procedures;

                    j)     Supports and markets new and innovative training
                           methodologies that increase effectiveness, efficiency and
                           success of agency initiatives; and

                    k)     Keeps agency managers informed of significant training
                           trends and issues.

              2.    Curriculum development workgroups

                    a)     Work collaboratively with the Training Academy when
                           designing training;




Page 3 of 5                I-D-3.8 Agency Training Program            Effective: 08/04/2025
                    b)     Develop continuous quality improvement and communication
                           plans to ensure successful implementation of approved
                           recommendations; and

                    c)     Consider key areas when designing training:

                           (1)    A description of the training;

                           (2)    Learning outcomes;

                           (3)    A lesson plan documenting content delivered to
                                  participants;

                           (4)    Potential impact to marginalized groups; and

                           (5)    Identified ways to measure effectiveness.

              3.    Training Academy

                    a)     Consults with agency managers to develop the biennial
                           agency training plan and presents the plan to the TAC;

                    b)     Reviews curriculum development workgroups’ work products
                           and prepares recommendations for presentation to the TAC;

                    c)     Works collaboratively with curriculum development
                           workgroups, subject matter experts, and training owners to
                           define curriculum goals, content, and training delivery
                           concepts;

                    d)     Develops procedures to facilitate the operation of the
                           Training Academy and delivery of training by non-Academy
                           personnel;

                    e)     Develops, coordinates, and provides training to accomplish
                           the agency workforce development and training plan;

                    f)     Creates and publishes the OYA training calendar; and

                    g)     Coordinates staff training documentation. (See related policy
                           I-D-3.9 Staff Training.)

       C.     Agency training plan

              1.    The Training Academy director must ensure the agency’s training
                    plan is developed biennially and includes annual goals.

              2.    The plan must be developed using data from needs assessments,
                    current training mandates, desired workforce competencies, and
                    Curriculum development workgroup involvement.



Page 4 of 5                I-D-3.8 Agency Training Program          Effective: 08/04/2025
              3.    The training plan must be approved by the TAC and reviewed
                    annually.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO

VI.    GENERAL PROCEDURE REQUIRED: YES

       An agencywide procedure must delineate how curriculum development
       workgroups -

       A.     Are convened to ensure membership is diverse and inclusive;

       B.     Have a clear purpose; and

       C.     Have a clear work product goal.




Page 5 of 5                I-D-3.8 Agency Training Program        Effective: 08/04/2025
