                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Public Records Management
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:       Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                               Review:
 E: Information Management – 1.4           I-E-1.4 (9/16)    04/05/2019        06/30/2025

 Related             ORS 192.018 Written policies on use, retention and ownership of
 Standards             public records; State Archivist approval
 and                 ORS 192.105 State Archivist authorization for state officials to
 References:          dispose of records; legislative records excepted; local government
                      policy on disposing of public records; limitations; records officer;
                      standards for State Records Center
                     ORS 357.855 Advice and assistance on public record problems
                     OAR Chapter 166 State Archives Division
                     DAS statewide policies:
                      107-004-050 (Information Asset Classification)
                      107-001-020 (Public Records Management)
                      107-004-150 (Cloud Computing)
                     OYA’s Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP)
                     OYA policies:
                      0-7.0 (Use of Electronic Information Assets and Systems)
                      I-C-9.0 (MCDs (Cell Phones) and Other Mobile Data Storage
                      Devices)
                      I-E-2.0 (Records Retention, Destruction and Archiving)
                      I-E-2.1 (Public Records Requests for Agency Records)
                      I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and Records)
                      I-E-3.1 (Publication Management)
                      I-E-3.2 (Information Asset Classification and Protection)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                             Approved:
 Public Policy and Government
 Relations Manager                         ________________________
                                           Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy is intended to comply with ORS 192.018 and DAS statewide policy
       107-001-020 (Public Records Management) by defining OYA’s public records
       management program.




Page 1 of 6                  I-E-1.4 Public Records Management             Effective: 04/05/2019
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Cloud computing: Has the same meaning as “Cloud Computing” defined in the
       National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-
       145, available at
       http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-145.pdf.

       Custodian: A public body mandated, directly or indirectly, to create, maintain,
       care for or control a public record. "Custodian" does not include a public body
       that has custody of a public record as an agent of another public body that is the
       custodian, unless the public record is not otherwise available.

       Instant messaging: Real-time text communications between or among
       computers or mobile devices over the Internet or functionally similar
       communications network.

       Metadata: Data that provides information about other data. Metadata assists in
       resource discovery by allowing resources to be found by relevant criteria,
       identifying resources, bringing similar resources together, distinguishing
       dissimilar resources, and giving location information.

       OYA Information Security Officer (ISO): OYA employee who is responsible for
       overseeing the agency’s information security program to help ensure the security
       objectives are addressed.

       Public record: Has the meaning established in ORS 192.005. In general, it
       refers to information that is prepared, owned, used or retained by a state agency
       or political subdivision; relates to an activity, transaction or function of a state
       agency or political subdivision; and is necessary to satisfy the fiscal, legal,
       administrative or historical policies, requirements or needs of the state agency or
       political subdivision.

       Social media: Web-based and mobile communication technologies that allow
       the creation and exchange of user-generated content such as comments or
       responsive postings. Examples of “social media” include but are not limited to
       Twitter, Flickr, blogging sites, Facebook, YouTube and Instagram.

       Text messaging: Messages exchanged between fixed-line phones or mobile
       phones and fixed or portable devices over a network. Excluded from the
       definition of “text messages” are electronic mail (“e-mail”) communications,
       whether such messages are exchanged among or between official state
       government e-mail accounts or e-mail accounts maintained by private entities.

       Unified Communications: A service of IBM , the packaged services or user
       profiles available to agencies (e.g., instant messaging, video conferencing,
       telephony, call management and call control across multiple systems). Also
       known as IBM Unified Communications.




Page 2 of 6                 I-E-1.4 Public Records Management          Effective: 04/05/2019
III.   POLICY:

       OYA maintains and manages its public records in a way that protects the integrity
       of the records from the time of the record’s creation to the time of the record’s
       final disposition, regardless of the technology or medium used to create or
       communicate the record.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Roles and Responsibilities

              1.    Oregon law requires agencies to designate an agency records
                    officer “to coordinate its agency’s Records Management Program”
                    (ORS 192.105(2)(a)).

                    OYA’s records officer serves as primary liaison with the State
                    Archivist and receives training from the State Archivist in
                    performing records management duties.

              2.    OYA ensures public records are managed appropriately within the
                    agency from the time of creation to final disposition by assigning
                    these additional responsibilities to the following designated
                    positions:

                    a)     Agency retention coordinator: Develops and maintains OYA
                           record retention schedules; provides information and
                           consultation to OYA staff about records retention and
                           destruction.

                    b)     Agency archive coordinator: Develops and maintains
                           agencywide archiving procedures and provides information
                           and consultation to OYA staff about records storage and
                           archiving.

                    c)     OYA information security officer: Updates the agency
                           information asset classification and protection matrixes; sets
                           the standard of information asset protection and handling;
                           coordinates a biennial review of the matrixes to ensure the
                           matrixes are current and match the agency retention
                           schedule. (See OYA policy I-E-3.2 Information Asset
                           Classification and Protection.)

                    d)     OYA communication manager: Ensures records placed on
                           any social media platform by OYA is an accurate copy of an
                           official record that is retained elsewhere by OYA, for
                           required record retention purposes.

                    e)     Chief information officer: Ensures agency compliance with
                           DAS statewide cloud-computing policy (107-004-150; 107-
                           004-150 PR), OAR chapter 166, and that appropriate access
                           and version controls are applied to all electronically-stored
                           records from record creation to final disposition.
Page 3 of 6                I-E-1.4 Public Records Management         Effective: 04/05/2019
       B.     Education and Training

              OYA provides basic public records training to newly-hired staff as a
              component of its new employee orientation curriculum. Basic public
              records training is incorporated into staff regular training at least once
              every two years.

       C.     Access and Ownership

              Regardless of how public records are being stored, OYA has possession
              and control over created records. OYA ensures all public records are
              maintained and accessible for as long as required by applicable retention
              schedules or litigation holds, through ongoing review of technological
              advances.

              OYA’s disaster mitigation process is addressed in OYA’s Business
              Continuity Plan and Recovery Plans, and is incorporated by reference.

       D.     Integrity

              OYA ensures appropriate access and version controls are applied to all
              electronically-stored records, from record creation to final disposition.
              The authenticity of each record must be demonstrated either by certified
              copy of paper records, or by accompanying metadata for electronic
              records.

       E.     Retention Generally

              OYA preserves and classifies public records according to ORS chapter
              192, OAR chapter 166, and DAS statewide policy 107-004-050 regarding
              Information Asset Classification.

              1.     Cloud computing

                     OYA’s cloud-computing record retention processes comply with
                     DAS statewide Cloud Computing policy (107-004-150; 107-004-150
                     PR), and all requirements outlined in OAR chapter 166.

              2.     E-mail

                     a)       OYA e-mail accounts

                              Most e-mails sent to or from staff OYA e-mail accounts meet
                              the definition of a public record and are subject to search
                              and production.

                     b)       Private e-mail accounts

                              Staff who use their private e-mail accounts to conduct OYA
                              business must ensure their OYA e-mail accounts are copied
                              on all such outgoing messages, and forward any received


Page 4 of 6                   I-E-1.4 Public Records Management         Effective: 04/05/2019
                           messages on which their OYA e-mail accounts are not
                           copied immediately or as soon as practicable.
                           Personal e-mail accounts (addresses) used to conduct OYA
                           business may be subject to search and production.

                    c)     Staff may refer to OYA policy 0-7.0 (Use of Electronic
                           Information Assets and Systems) for acceptable use of the
                           OYA e-mail system.

              3.    Instant Messaging and Text Messaging

                    OYA does not retain instant messages or text messages, and does
                    not search any existing such messages in response to public
                    records requests.

                    Staff must record the substantive business content of such
                    messages in other formats as prescribed by OYA policy 0-7.0 (Use
                    of Electronic Information Assets and Systems).

              4.    Social Media

                    Records placed on a social media platform by OYA are copies of
                    official records that are retained elsewhere per applicable retention
                    schedules. Staff may refer to OYA policy I-E-3.1 (Publication
                    Management) for proper social media communication standards.

              5.    Unified Communications

                    Public records created by services activated within the selected
                    Unified Communications user profile will be maintained according
                    to ORS chapter 192, OAR chapter 166 division 300.

                    OYA’s Unified Communications records practices and procedures
                    are based on the user profile selected and services available to
                    OYA.

              6.    Voicemail

                    Voicemail messages are not considered public record. OYA does
                    not retain voicemail messages, and does not search any existing
                    voicemail messages in response to public records requests.

                    Note: Staff must handle voicemail messages that are attached to
                    e-mail messages as e-mail messages.

       F.     Storage and Retrieval

              1.    Paper Records
                    OYA maintains an inventory of paper records, location, and
                    retention period. Staff may refer to OYA policy (I-E-3.2 Information
                    Asset Classification and Protection) to access the inventory.

Page 5 of 6                I-E-1.4 Public Records Management         Effective: 04/05/2019
              2.    Electronic Records

                    OYA maintains an inventory of electronic records.

                    The chief information officer, in collaboration with the agency
                    retention coordinator, must ensure that all retention periods have
                    been met before deleting any data from large electronic record
                    systems.

       G.     Public Records Requests

              OYA responds to public records requests as soon as practicable and
              without unreasonable delay, according to timelines outlined in ORS
              192.324 and ORS 192.329.

              Staff must refer to OYA policies I-E-2.1 (Public Records Requests for
              Agency Records) and I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and
              Records) when responding to public records requests.

       H.     Disposition and Destruction

              OYA disposes of or destroys public records according to the requirements
              of OAR chapter 166. OYA staff may refer to OYA policy I-E-2.0 (Records
              Retention, Destruction and Archiving) for agency processes in public
              record disposition and destruction.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 6 of 6                I-E-1.4 Public Records Management         Effective: 04/05/2019
