                                  OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                           Policy Statement
                                Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

     Subject:
     Youth Grievance Process - Facility
     Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:           Effective Date:    Date of Last
     F: Justice – 1.1                     II-F-1.1 (01/20) 01/15/2025     Revision/Review:
                                          II-F-1.1 (09/13)                None
                                          II-F-1.1 (10/10)
                                          II-F-1.1 (11/07)
                                          II-F-1.1 (01/05)
     Related           OAR 416-020 Youth in Custody Grievance Process
     Standards         Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
     and                Detention Facilities; Programming; Justice
     References:       American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                        Correctional Facilities: 4-JCF-3A-01 (Access to Counsel and
                        Courts); 4-JCF-3A-06 (Grievance Procedures)
                       OYA policy:
                        0-2.3 Mandatory Reporting of Abuse
                        I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                        Abuse and Sexual Harassment
                        II-F-1.0 Youth Rights [Facility]
                        II-F-3.6 Youth Legal Materials and Assistance
                        III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community
                       OYA forms: YA 1300 Youth Grievance Filing Form
                        YA 1300 SP Youth Grievance Filing Form (Spanish)
                        YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form
                        YA 1300A SP Youth Grievance Review Form (Spanish)
                        YA 1304 Youth Communication Form
                        YA 1304 SP Youth Communication Form (Spanish)
                      Youth Grievance Process signage; English and Spanish
     Related           Checklist: Youth Grievance Collection, Assignment, Tracking, and
     Procedures:        Retention
     Policy Owner:                           Approved:

     Facility Services Assistant Director
                                                 _____________________
                                                 Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.         PURPOSE:

           This policy provides standards for processing youth grievances in OYA facilities.

           Further information regarding youth grievance rights and the appeals process is
           in OAR chapter 416, division 20 (Youth in Custody Grievance Process).


Page 1 of 7                II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility                Effective: 01/15/2025
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Agency grievance coordinator: A Director’s Office staff member designated by
       the OYA director whose responsibilities include developing, implementing, and
       overseeing the agency’s youth grievance process.

       Emergency: Any condition or situation where there is a substantial risk of
       imminent abuse, or threat to life, health, or safety or where grievance time frame
       considerations necessitate an immediate response or remedial action. Includes
       allegations of abuse.

       Grievance: A complaint about the substance or application of any rule, policy, or
       practice affecting a youth; or any decision or action directed toward a youth by
       OYA, its employees or agents, including but not limited to matters of
       confinement, discipline, treatment, education, and privileges.

       Local grievance coordinator: A staff member designated by the superintendent
       or camp director who coordinates the grievance response process for that facility.

       Representative: An adult person who is authorized by a youth to receive
       confidential information from OYA and to act on behalf of the youth with respect
       to a grievance. A representative includes, but is not limited to, an attorney,
       relative, friend or legal guardian, but not another youth.

       Responder: The staff member who is assigned a grievance for review and
       response.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes all youth have a right to review any action or decision affecting
       them and initiate a grievance without fear of reprisal. Youth who believe they
       have been dealt with unjustly by OYA may file a grievance using the process
       described below. They are not required to discuss the nature of their grievance
       with staff, but staff and youth are encouraged to handle questions and complaints
       at the lowest level possible.

       Grievances may also be filed on behalf of a youth by the youth’s representative
       when the youth agrees on the filing. Staff must document a youth's refusal of a
       representative's offer to file a grievance on behalf of the youth. Grievances filed
       by a youth’s parent or legal guardian involving possible youth civil rights
       violations or criminal matters are not conditioned on the youth agreeing to have
       the grievance filed on their behalf.

       There is no time limit between when a grievance incident or issue occurred and
       when a youth may file a grievance.

       Grievance limitations are listed in OAR 416-020-0020. Youth may request review
       of only one matter, action, or incident per grievance form. The same issue may
       only be grieved more than once if there is another incident and new information
       is available about the issue. A youth may not submit more than two new
       grievances in any one week or six in any calendar month (a week is Sunday
       through Saturday). Exceptions may be made if a youth clearly states in writing
Page 2 of 7           II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility       Effective: 01/15/2025
       the reason for submitting above the number allowed. If the grievance coordinator
       determines that these reasons are not clear, concise, or valid, the grievance will
       be returned as denied. These limitations do not apply to “emergency issues.” The
       grievance coordinator determines whether an issue is an emergency or not.

       According to OAR 416-020-0020(2), a youth may not grieve the following:
       1. Issues for which the youth is entitled to a contested case hearing, according
          to ORS Chapter 183;
       2. Actions or decisions not within the jurisdiction of OYA (e.g., actions by the
          court or another agency);
       3. Incidents or problems to which the youth was not a party;
       4. Issues for which the youth has initiated court action or filed notice of intent to
          file tort claim; or
       5. The matter of the grievance will be or has already been decided by a judge.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Informal Resolution

              Informal resolution of issues between youth and staff is strongly
              encouraged to provide immediate response to the youth and to avoid
              overburdening of the youth grievance system.

              OYA form YA 1304 Youth Communication Form is available for youth to
              send to staff if they have a question or concern, or to provide a comment
              during their stay in close custody. Staff must not require youth to submit a
              YA 1304 before filing a grievance if the topic meets the definition of a
              grievance (as defined above).

       B.     Youth and Parent/Guardian Notification

              Staff will inform youth and their parents or legal guardians of the youth
              grievance process during intake.

              For parents and guardians, this information is contained in documents
              Top Things for Families to Know; and Family Guide to Intake.

       C.     When staff receive an emergency grievance where life, health, or safety
              may be threatened (e.g., imminent danger, abuse, injury, sexual
              vulnerability), they must immediately notify the superintendent/camp
              director, or officer-of-the-day (OD) of the matter. The emergency
              grievance must be reviewed and responded to as soon as possible but no
              longer than 24 hours from receipt.

              1.     The superintendent/camp director or OD will take appropriate
                     action to assure the welfare of the youth.

              2.     Staff may also inform the youth of the option to contact the OYA
                     Professional Standards Office by calling the OYA Reporting Line
                     (formerly “Hotline”) at 1-800-315-5440 regarding the emergency
                     matter. Staff must remind the youth that the Professional Standards


Page 3 of 7           II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility        Effective: 01/15/2025
                     Office will not respond to OYA Reporting Line calls during
                     weekends or public holidays.

              3.     Refer to OYA policies I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and
                     Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment); and
                     0-2.3 (Mandatory Reporting of Abuse) if the matter involves sexual
                     abuse/harassment or child abuse.

              4.     When Professional Standards Office receives youth messages on
                     the OYA Reporting Line that clearly are not emergency grievances
                     or civil rights violations, they must remind the youth of the
                     appropriate grievance or communication process. This ensures all
                     grievances are addressed in accordance with OAR 416-020.

       D.     Civil Rights Violations or Criminal Matters

              When a grievance concerns a civil rights violation or criminal matter (e.g.,
              abuse, harassment, neglect), staff must notify the Professional Standards
              Office and follow the emergency grievance process described in
              section C.

       E.     Grievance Form Access, Collection, and Assignment

              1.     Youth Grievance Filing Forms (YA 1300) must be available to all
                     youth within a common area.

                     The Youth Grievance Filing Form must also be available on the
                     OYA website.

              2.     Locked boxes specifically for form collection must be located where
                     they can be accessed daily by youth.

                     At least one locked box must be located in an area of the facility
                     where youth can submit a grievance without being observed by
                     their unit leadership team (e.g., school, recreation area).

              3.     A designated staff member who does not have routine contact with
                     youth must collect all forms from the locked boxes every day,
                     except on weekends and public holidays.

                     If it is not feasible to designate a staff that does not have routine
                     contact with youth for this duty, sealable envelopes must be
                     available with the Youth Grievance Filing Forms so youth may seal
                     their forms prior to dropping them in the locked boxes.

              4.     The designated staff member must deliver all collected Youth
                     Grievance Filing Forms to the facility local grievance coordinator.

              5.     The local grievance coordinator must assess the nature of the
                     grievance, and assign a tracking number and appropriate
                     responder to each grievance on a YA 1300A Youth Grievance
                     Review Form.
Page 4 of 7           II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility       Effective: 01/15/2025
                   a)      A copy of the related YA 1300 Youth Grievance Filing Form
                           must be attached to the YA 1300A and sent to the assigned
                           responder.

                   b)      Any staff member who is the subject of a grievance or to
                           whom the grievance may pose a conflict of interest must not
                           be the assigned responder.

                   c)      Grievances regarding youth medical/healthcare issues must
                           be assigned to an OYA healthcare staff/contractor for initial
                           response.

              6.   Staff members who receive grievances directly from youth must
                   ensure the grievances are delivered to their local grievance
                   coordinators for tracking and response. The staff member the
                   grievance was addressed to might not be the same staff member
                   who responds to the youth.

       F.     Grievance Response Process

              1.   Staff assigned as a grievance responder must review the grievance
                   with the youth within seven working days of OYA receiving the
                   grievance. The assigned responder must provide the youth a copy
                   of the written resolution documented on the YA 1300A Youth
                   Grievance Review Form.

                   a)      The original YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form
                           containing the written resolution must be forwarded to the
                           grievance coordinator for tracking and retention.

                   b)      If it appears the process may take longer than seven working
                           days, staff must give the youth written notification of the
                           delay before the due date. A copy of the delay notice must
                           be forwarded to the grievance coordinator for tracking.

                   c)      Any delay longer than 14 working days must be approved by
                           the superintendent or camp director.

              2.   Second review

                   a)      A youth may forward the responder’s written grievance
                           resolution (YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form)
                           through the grievance coordinator to the facility
                           superintendent/camp director for a second review and
                           resolution if the youth is dissatisfied with the first resolution.
                           Only information directly related to issues of the initial
                           grievance will be considered in the second review.

                   b)      The superintendent/camp director, or designee, must review
                           the grievance and provide a copy of the written response on


Page 5 of 7          II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility          Effective: 01/15/2025
                           the YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form to the youth
                           within 30 calendar days of receiving the grievance.

                           (1)     The original YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form
                                   documenting the written response must be forwarded
                                   to the grievance coordinator for tracking and
                                   retention.

                           (2)     The superintendent/camp director, or designee, must
                                   collaborate with the OYA medical director when
                                   completing a second review of a grievance regarding
                                   youth medical/healthcare issues.

                    c)     The YA 1300A Youth Grievance Review Form must include
                           instructions to the youth for filing an appeal to the OYA
                           director if the youth is dissatisfied with the resolution.

              3.    Appeal to the director
                    a)     The Director’s Office must respond to the youth within 30
                           calendar days of receiving an appeal.
                    b)     The Director’s Office must collaborate with the OYA medical
                           director when responding to grievance appeals regarding
                           youth medical issues.
                    c)     Local grievance coordinators may use this email address to
                           forward an appeal to the Director’s Office if a youth submits
                           an appeal to them for processing:
                           OYAYouthGrievanceAppeals@oya.oregon.gov.

       G.     Records

              1.    All grievances must be tracked through an electronic tracking
                    system by the local grievance coordinator or designee.

                    The agency grievance coordinator must have access to the tracking
                    system for quality assurance and data collection purposes.

              2.    Copies of the grievance forms and any supporting documentation
                    must be filed in a grievance file separate from youth case files and
                    retained for three years.

       H.     Quality assurance

              1.    The agency grievance coordinator must review the electronic
                    grievance tracking system at least once a quarter and address any
                    policy deviations found.

              2.    The agency grievance coordinator must ensure youth grievance
                    process informational media is current.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROCEDURE REQUIRED: No

Page 6 of 7          II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility      Effective: 01/15/2025
VI.    FACILITYWIDE PROCEDURE REQUIRED: Yes

       A facilitywide procedure or checklist must list action items required to be
       completed by OYA facility local grievance coordinators and others involved in the
       youth grievance process.




Page 7 of 7          II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility     Effective: 01/15/2025
