                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                   Policy Statement
                       Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Health and Mental Health – 2.1         II-D-2.1 (5/19)       04/28/2023
                                                                                   Revision:
                                           II-D-2.1 (10/11)                        04/28/2025
                                                                                   (added “or
                                           II-D-2.1 (12/00)
                                                                                   designee”)
 Related             ORS 420A.010 (Oregon Youth Authority, creation and duties)
 Standards           ORS 420A.125 (Adjudicated Youths; intake assessments;
 and                   reformation plan; placement)
 References:         OAR 416-435 (OYA Transgender, Gender Diverse, Gender Fluid,
                       and Intersex Youth)
                     OAR 416-470 (Prohibited Youth Behaviors and Processing
                       Behavior Violations)
                     Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
                       Detention Facilities; Programming; Health and Mental Health
                     American Correctional Association Standards for Juvenile
                      Correctional Facilities; 4-JTS-4E-02 (Management of Chemical
                      Dependency)
                     OYA policy: I-C-8.3 (Infection Control)
                      II-A-1.2 (Preserving Chain of Evidence)
                      II-B-2.1 (Behavior Management – Youth Refocus Options)
                     OYA form: YA 4407 (Chain of Custody-Urinalysis Testing)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director
                                              ______________________
                                              Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy sets standards for substance use screening youth in OYA facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS: None

III.   POLICY:

       OYA’s mission includes holding youth accountable and providing opportunities
       for reformation in safe environments. Detecting a youth’s substance use is an
       important tool as staff work to fulfill the agency’s mission while also providing
       opportunities for reformation by following case plans and participating in


Page 1 of 5      II-D-2.1 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities      Effective: 04/28/2023
       treatment programs. Substance-free facilities help provide positive youth
       development in safe and secure environments.
       The purpose of youth substance use screening is to:

       •      Assess, monitor and treat a youth’s substance use;

       •      Assist in case planning by identifying youth who need substance use
              treatment services or other interventions;

       •      Deter a youth’s substance use;

       •      Monitor and maintain compliance with court orders, case plans, and
              substance use treatment programs; and

       •      Eliminate the presence and use of illegal and prohibited substances in OYA
              facilities.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. To ensure there is equity and no bias in the substance use screening
       process, use of a Random Number Generator will be used to select who will be
       screened.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        During a youth’s facility intake process, staff must notify the youth of the
                 facility’s substance use screening procedures and the consequences that
                 may occur if the youth refuses to participate in screening.

                 1.        Random or scheduled youth substance screening is allowed in the
                           following instances:

                           a)      As authorized in a case plan or court order;

                           b)      In conjunction with a youth’s treatment plan;

                           c)      Upon intake into a facility;

                           d)      Random tests based on safety and security risks to maintain
                                   a substance-free facility using a computer-generated
                                   randomizer to assure that the selection is unbiased; or

                           e)      When a staff member has reasonable suspicion that a youth
                                   is using illegal or prohibited substances. This includes when
                                   a youth has been away from a facility and may have had
                                   access to illegal or prohibited substances, or when behavior
                                   or other evidence suggests the youth may have used an
                                   illegal or prohibited substance.




Page 2 of 5           II-D-2.1 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities   Effective: 04/28/2023
              2.        The substance use screening process will ensure the reliability of
                        the screening, accuracy of the results, and the safety of those
                        involved.

                        a)      Staff must follow chain of custody procedures as the
                                specimen is processed. The chain of custody requirement
                                ensures the specimen obtained from the youth is the same
                                that is screened, and the result of the screen is what is
                                presented as evidence in court.

                        b)      Staff must use OYA form YA 4407 (Chain of Custody –
                                Urinalysis Testing), the screening test manufacturer’s form,
                                or lab form to document the chain of evidence.

                        c)      The facility substance use treatment coordinator or designee
                                must instruct staff on screening methods and procedures
                                prior to staff conducting a screening.

                        d)      Staff must follow the manufacturer’s recommendations when
                                using screening products.

                        e)      Staff must be respectful of the youth while maintaining the
                                test or screening integrity.

                                1)     Urine sample collection must be monitored by a
                                       same-gender staff (except for circumstances
                                       described in section B below) in a place and manner
                                       that will avoid undue embarrassment to the youth
                                       while safeguarding against sample tampering.

                                2)     Once the sample is provided, staff must keep it within
                                       their control to minimize tampering opportunities.

                        f)      Staff must use universal precautions when conducting tests
                                or screenings. See OYA policy I-C-8.3 (Infection Control) for
                                details.

              3.        Following a positive screening, a second testing method may be
                        necessary to confirm results.

              4.        Confirmation tests must be a second test using a laboratory.

                        A specimen that screens positive on an initial screen but fails to be
                        confirmed by laboratory testing will be declared negative and
                        treated the same as a specimen that showed negative in the initial
                        screen.

       B.     Staff must ask a transgender, gender fluid, or intersex youth to identify
              whether the youth prefers a staff who identifies as male or female to
              conduct the youth’s urine collection process when a urine sample is
              required for substance use screening.


Page 3 of 5        II-D-2.1 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities   Effective: 04/28/2023
              If the stated preference is not the same gender as the youth, preferred-
              gender staff who are identified as willing to observe the urine collection will
              do so. If preferred-gender staff are not available, staff will use oral testing
              (e.g., mouth swab); or the device temperature and adulteration strips to
              complete the substance use screen without observing the youth.

       C.     Staff must protect confidential information about screening and results in
              compliance with OYA policy.
              1.        Appropriate information must be documented on an assessment
                        OYA 4460 Substance Use Screen Report in JJIS.
              2.        All positive screens must be documented as a YIR.
              3.        Staff must file the OYA 4460 and a lab report (if available) in the
                        youth’s case file as documentation of the screening and the results.
              4.        If results are disclosed, staff must document the disclosure in the
                        youth’s case file, including the action taken and to whom and when
                        disclosure was made.

       D.     Screening process

              1.        If a youth states they are unable to provide a specimen, staff must
                        permit the youth a reasonable timeframe within which to do so.

              2.        Staff must document the following information at the time of the
                        specimen collection:

                        a)      The youth’s name and JJIS number;

                        b)      The type of substance(s) for which the screening is
                                administered;

                        c)      A list of medications the youth is currently taking, as
                                provided by the youth;

                        d)      Date/time the specimen is collected; and

                        e)      The name of the person collecting the specimen.

                        f)      If a random test, include a copy of the randomizer that was
                                used to determine who was selected for the test.

              3.        Staff must document all transfers of specimens using a YA 4407,
                        screening test manufacturer’s form, or lab form.

                        a)      Staff will review the specimen for evidence of tampering at
                                each transfer of the specimen.

                        b)      Staff will immediately report any evidence of tampering to
                                the submitting office.


Page 4 of 5        II-D-2.1 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities   Effective: 04/28/2023
              4.        Staff must notify the youth of the screening results as soon as
                        practicable, but no later than 72 hours after staff receive the results.

                        a)      Adjustments to the youth’s behavior reinforcement to support
                                the youth’s case plan goals may be needed and applied by
                                the youth’s multidisciplinary team with collaboration from the
                                facility substance use treatment coordinator or designee.

                        b)      Staff must notify the substance use treatment coordinator or
                                designee of a positive result. Youth must have the
                                opportunity to participate in additional substance use
                                treatment sessions to address the underlying issues.

                        c)      If the youth refuses the opportunity to work with staff on the
                                issue, then staff must impose graduated refocus options for
                                positive results in compliance with OYA policy II-B-2.1
                                (Behavior Management - Youth Refocus Options).
                                The youth behavior violation may be for Medication Abuse or
                                Misuse, or Possession of Contraband That Can Harm Self or
                                Others.

                        d)      Behavior reinforcement will be imposed at the discretion of
                                the youth’s unit leadership team in collaboration with the
                                youth’s juvenile parole/probation officer. A youth’s honesty
                                regarding the results of the screening may be considered
                                when deciding behavior reinforcement.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

       Each OYA facility must develop and implement a local operating protocol to
       supplement this policy. The protocol must address the below items, and be
       reviewed by the OYA statewide substance use treatment coordinator prior to
       implementation.

       A.     Process for collection of substance use screening specimen to ensure
              proper chain of custody.

       B.     Laboratory results – communication and verification process.

       C.     Random substance use screening collection – how many youth, how
              randomly selected.




Page 5 of 5        II-D-2.1 Youth Substance Use Screening in OYA Facilities   Effective: 04/28/2023
