                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                             Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Youth Welfare Accounts
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:       Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                 Review/Revision:
 B: Financial Management - 3.1               I-B-3.1 (12/11)   01/04/2023
                                                                                 None
 Related               OAR 416-260-0015 (Youth Welfare Accounts)
 Standards             American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
 and                    Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-6B-12 (Juvenile Funds)
 References:           OYA policy: I-B-3.0 (Youth Trust Accounts)
                       OYA forms: YA 2212 (Documentation of New Youth Welfare
                        Account)
                        YA 2218 (Trust Disbursement Request)
 Related               None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Chief Financial Officer
                                             ________________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:
       This policy directs staff on how OYA establishes and maintains Youth Welfare
       Accounts in OYA facilities.
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:
       Youth Welfare Account: A general account established by OYA dedicated to
       provide monies to benefit the close-custody youth population and enhance youth
       activities and programs.
       The following are the most common types of Youth Welfare Accounts:
       •      Holding Account: An account established to temporarily hold certain
              percentages of revenue received until disbursed to each OYA facility in
              amounts based on average daily populations.
       •      Incentive Account: An account established for each OYA facility to fund
              youth incentive activities, supplies, and services.
       •      Miscellaneous Accounts: An account established by Central Accounting to
              track and manage funds collected or awarded for a specific use.
       •      Work Crew Maintenance Account: An account established for each OYA
              facility to provide funding for one –time and ongoing costs to operate and
              maintain youth work crews.



Page 1 of 3            I-B-3.1 Youth Welfare Accounts                       Effective: 01/04/2023
III.   POLICY:

       OYA has established Youth Welfare Accounts for each OYA facility to provide
       funds to benefit its close-custody youth population and enhance youth activities
       and programs. Revenues from youth work programs, donations made to OYA for
       the benefit of all facility youth, and fundraisers benefiting facility youth programs
       are deposited into a Youth Welfare Account. Youth Welfare Accounts must be
       established and managed in accordance with this policy to ensure youth benefit
       from the funds in an equitable manner.

       OYA may use monies in Youth Welfare Accounts to fund a variety of programs,
       services and activities benefiting facility youth and enhancing youth activities and
       programs. Specific uses of the funds may include, but are not limited to,
       operations, support or enhancement of the following programs, services and
       activities:
       • Recreational activities;
       • Incentive awards;
       • Holiday events, decorations, and gifts;
       • Entertainment equipment and supplies;
       • Repair of equipment purchased from a Youth Welfare Account; and
       • Youth work program startup costs, equipment, attire, and safety supplies.

       Youth Welfare Accounts may not manage individual youth trust funds.
       Governance of individual youth trust funds is delineated in OARs
       416-260-0010 through 416-260-0070 (Youth Welfare and Trust Accounts) and
       OYA policy I-B-3.0 (Youth Trust Accounts).

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Establishing a Youth Welfare Account

              1.     The assistant director, Facility Services must complete and sign a
                     New Youth Welfare Account form (YA 2212) to initiate a new Youth
                     Welfare account in JJIS.

              2.     The YA 2212 must be forwarded to Central Accounting for review
                     and implementation.

       B.     Youth Welfare Account Use

              1.     Facility administration may use Incentive Account funds to pay for
                     on- or off-campus recreational activities; supplies and services for
                     youth activities and awards; holiday events, decorations, and gifts;
                     entertainment equipment and supplies; and youth incentives.

                     All revenue received is for the benefit of the current facility youth
                     population.

              2.     Facility administration may use Work Crew Maintenance funds to
                     establish a new work crew project, buy new or replace existing
                     equipment, or buy youth work boots or safety supplies.



Page 2 of 3          I-B-3.1 Youth Welfare Accounts                     Effective: 01/04/2023
              3.    Expenses must be approved and signed by the superintendent or
                    designee, camp director, accounting manager, Facility Services
                    assistant director, or OYA director.

              4.    Staff must not use Youth Welfare Accounts to purchase canteen
                    inventory.

       C.     Allocation Process

              Central Accounting will allocate incoming funds to each facility’s Youth
              Welfare Account according to the following guidelines:

              1.    Donations and Fundraising

                    a)     A percentage of the money received will be placed in the
                           Youth Welfare Account of the facility which obtained the
                           donation or held the fundraiser;

                    b)     Any remaining balance of the money received will be placed
                           in the Holding Account.

                    c)     Exceptions must be approved by the Facility Services
                           assistant director.

              2.    Youth Work Crew Maintenance Account

                    a)     Youth stipends or incentive pay will be paid to individual
                           youth and deposited into each youth’s special sources trust
                           account, as described in the specific work project
                           agreement.

                    b)     A percentage of the balance of funds will be placed in the
                           specific facility’s Work Crew Maintenance account.

                    c)     The remaining balance will be placed in the Holding
                           Account.

              3.    Holding Accounts

                    The balance of the Holding Account will be distributed among
                    individual facility incentive accounts throughout the fiscal period
                    based on the most current facility average daily youth population.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3         I-B-3.1 Youth Welfare Accounts                    Effective: 01/04/2023
