                               OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                         Policy Statement
                          Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Community Location or Escape from an
 OYA Facility
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:           Effective Date:    Date of Last
                                           III-A-7.0 (10/22) 10/29/2024               Review/Revision:
 A: General Administration – 7.0
                                           III-A-7.0 (07/20)                 None
                                           III-A-7.0 (04/18)
                                           III-A-7.0 (04/16)
                                           III-A-7.0 (08/15)
                                           III-A-7.0 (11/11)
                                           III-A-1.0 (07/06)
 Related               ORS 420.910 (Arrest and detention of escaped, absent or paroled
 Standards              youth offenders)
 and                   ORS 420A.023 (Authority of director to authorize youth correction
 References:            officers to exercise power of peace officer)
                       OAR 416-320 (Arrest Orders and All Points Bulletins)
                       OYA policy: I-E-1.0 Director’s Incident Notification and Report
                        I-E-2.5 Crime Victim Notification and Communications
                        II-A-1.4 Apprehension of Escaped Youth from OYA Facilities
                        III-A-1.0 Youth Incident Reports (Community)
 Related               COM III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Location
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:
 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                    ____________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.      PURPOSE:

        This policy delineates OYA staff actions and reporting requirements in response
        to a youth’s unauthorized absence from a community placement while on
        parole/probation or escape from an OYA close-custody facility.

II.     POLICY DEFINITIONS:

        All Points Bulletin (APB): A notice sent to Oregon law enforcement agencies to
        advise them of a youth's escape from a close-custody facility or unauthorized
        absence from parole status in the community.

        Escapee: A youth who resides in an OYA facility:
        • Who has left the grounds of a facility or work crew area without authorization;

Page 1 of 4 III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Community Location or Escape from an OYA
             Facility                                                           Effective: 10/29/2024
        •   Whose location remains unknown after a reasonable search time regardless
            of whether they have gone beyond the perimeters of the facility;
        •   Who has physically escaped during a secure transport or from a hospital
            commitment; or
        •   Who has failed to return from an authorized leave at the specified date and
            time.

        Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): A statewide integrated electronic
        information system designed, developed, and implemented to support a
        continuum of services and shared responsibility among all members of the
        juvenile justice community. In a collaborative partnership between the Oregon
        Youth Authority (OYA) and Oregon's county juvenile departments, JJIS is
        administered by the State of Oregon through OYA.

        Substitute care placement: Any out-of-home care and treatment program
        authorized by OYA to serve youth in OYA custody, including contracted
        residential treatment programs and certified foster homes. Substitute care
        placements exclude OYA’s close-custody facilities.

        Unauthorized absence: To run away or to leave an assigned location (e.g.,
        employment, school), approved placement, or substitute care placement without
        the consent of the parent, guardian, OYA, or court.

        Warrant: An order issued by a judicial court to authorize the arrest and detention
        of a youth described in the order.

III.    POLICY:

        OYA's mission is to protect the public and reduce crime by holding youth
        accountable and providing opportunities for reformation in safe environments.
        Critical to this mission is the protection of the public and need to take appropriate
        action when a youth is absent without authorization from an assigned community
        location. Youth who run away pose a risk to community safety and themselves.

        OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
        initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
        environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
        bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
        represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
        system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
        it perpetuates. When a youth’s location is unknown, staff must respond to the
        unauthorized absence based on the youth’s risk and need, not on their personal
        bias.

        It is imperative that staff notify the Director’s Office if a significant incident occurs
        during a youth’s unauthorized absence. See OYA policy I-E-1.0 Director’s
        Incident Notification and Report for more information.




Page 2 of 4 III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Community Location or Escape from an OYA
             Facility                                                           Effective: 10/29/2024
IV.     GENERAL STANDARDS:

        A.      Designated staff must request a warrant or All Points Bulletin (APB) when
                a youth is absent without permission from an assigned location, the
                youth's current location is unknown, and there has been no contact with
                the youth that would reasonably indicate return to the assigned location.

                The youth’s reason for commitment to OYA, risk factors, or case-specific
                circumstances may dictate immediate action must be taken to apprehend
                the youth regardless of the length of time the youth has been absent from
                the location.

        B.      Staff must immediately notify their field supervisors or the field officer-of-
                the-day (OD) when they become aware of a youth’s unauthorized absence
                from an assigned location. Staff will communicate with their field
                supervisor to establish probable cause to request a warrant or APB.

                1.      Staff must ensure that a representative from the community
                        placement has made a run report to local law enforcement for youth
                        under age 18.

                2.      Youth on probation: Staff must request a warrant for arrest no later
                        than the next judicial day following an unauthorized absence,
                        according to the local court process.

                3.      Youth on parole: The field supervisor or field OD must request an
                        APB through agency designated LEDS-certified staff.

                        Staff must follow OYA policy I-E-2.5 Crime Victim Notification and
                        Communications regarding victim notification.

                4.      Staff must notify the youth’s parent or guardian of the youth’s
                        unauthorized absence from a community location.

                5.      Staff must designate the youth’s location status as “runaway” in
                        JJIS.

                6.      Staff must document in JJIS notes the circumstances of the
                        runaway.

        C.      Apprehension and contact efforts

                Staff must attempt communicating with the youth or collateral contacts
                who the youth may contact or who may receive information concerning the
                youth’s location at least monthly. Communication efforts must be
                documented in JJIS as a “contact note.”

                Staff must forward any information they learn regarding the youth’s
                location to law enforcement to assist with the youth’s apprehension.

        D.      Youth escapees

Page 3 of 4 III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Community Location or Escape from an OYA
             Facility                                                           Effective: 10/29/2024
                1.      Staff must be aware of the assigned Oregon State Police (OSP)
                        investigator and report number.

                2.      If staff learn of the youth’s location, staff must not attempt to take
                        the youth into custody.

                3.      Staff must report any information learned about the potential
                        location of the youth to OSP and the OYA Professional Standards
                        Office.

        E.      Documentation of a youth’s apprehension or return

                Staff must document a youth's apprehension or return to OYA custody or
                supervision in JJIS by changing the location status from “runaway” to the
                youth’s current location.

        F.      JJIS Notifications

                Staff may subscribe to automated daily JJIS reports on youth who have
                active runaway locations in JJIS, and youth whose locations have
                changed from runaway to another location.

V.      GENERAL OPERATING PROCEDURE REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4 III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned Community Location or Escape from an OYA
             Facility                                                           Effective: 10/29/2024
