                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                      Review:
 D: Case Management – 8.0                 III-D-8.0 (02/12) 06/07/2022
                                                                          06/07/2026
                                          III-D-8.0 (11/07)
 Related              U.S. Code: Title 42, Section 2000bb-1 through 2000bb-4,
 Standards             Religious Freedom Restoration Act
 and                  Protection of Religious Exercise in Land Use and Institutionalized
 References:           Persons Act of 2000
                      OYA policy: III-B-4.0 (Youth Rights and Grievances)
                       III-A-4.0 (Searches of Youth and Areas; Processing Contraband or
                       Evidence in Community Placements)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                   Approved:

 Community Services Assistant Director
                                                 ______________________________
                                                 Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff when supporting participation and
       addressing issues related to youth religious practices while in community
       substitute care.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Religious practice: Any exercise of religion, whether or not such exercise is
       compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief. It includes access to
       religious publications, religious symbols, congregate worship/religious services,
       religious study classes and ceremonies, and adherence to dietary requirements.

       Substitute care: An out-of-home placement in the community for an adjudicated
       youth that provides 24-hour-a-day care and treatment, including adjudicated
       youth foster homes, residential treatment facilities, and transitional housing
       programs.

II.    POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and

Page 1 of 4    III-D-8.0 Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements        Effective: 06/07/2022
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, we play a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. A youth’s expression and practice of religious beliefs is an
       important part of honoring diversity. OYA requires substitute care providers to
       support and respect a youth’s religious beliefs and practices.

       Federal laws allow all people to hold individual religious beliefs. Youth in OYA
       substitute care placements maintain this same right. OYA recognizes that cultural
       competence and diversity also includes respecting and valuing the youth’s
       spiritual and religious beliefs. Youth are not required to participate in religious
       practices or rituals.

       In some situations, federal laws allow states to limit a youth’s expression of
       religious beliefs through religious practice or rituals. While OYA makes every
       reasonable effort to allow youth the right of religious practice, the agency may
       restrict religious actions or rituals when:

       •      There is a compelling interest to do so, including, but not limited to, legitimate
              security and operational considerations such as safety, health and order;
              rehabilitation or treatment-related issues; or limitations of resources; and

       •      The imposed limitation is the least restrictive means of addressing the
              compelling interest.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        OYA contracted residential treatment programs.

                 1.      Contracts between OYA and each residential treatment program
                         must specify that programs will develop written procedures to
                         implement specific OYA policies, including OYA policy III-D-8.0
                         Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements.

                 2.      OYA staff who observe or receive reports of alleged actions or
                         practices by residential treatment programs or their staff that are in
                         conflict with OYA policy III-D-8.0 must inform the Community
                         Resources manager, or designee, of the alleged action or practice.

       B.        Youth in OYA substitute care

                 1.      OYA staff must be aware of youth rights to practice the religion of
                         their choice while in substitute care and to have reasonable access
                         to religious activities. Religious activities may include, but are not
                         limited to:

                         a)      Religious classes (lectures, instruction, discussion);

                         b)      Religious forums;

                         c)      Prayer groups;


Page 2 of 4      III-D-8.0 Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements   Effective: 06/07/2022
                      d)      Religious choirs, ensembles and singing groups;

                      e)      Self-study or group studies;

                      f)      Religious group counseling;

                      g)      Spiritual maturity groups;

                      h)      Ceremonies;

                      i)      Instruction in doctrines, rituals and ideals of various religious
                              faiths; access to religious publications;

                      j)      Provision of religious diets;

                      k)      Wearing or carrying a religious emblem, medal, medallion or
                              other religious item;

                      l)      Religious dress and grooming practices which may include
                              wearing religious clothing or adhering to shaving or hair
                              length observances; and

                      m)      Celebration of rituals necessary to meet the requirements of
                              a given faith. Whenever possible, youth work assignments
                              and schedules must accommodate religious practice that
                              requires abstinence from work on certain holidays. Such
                              accommodation must not penalize the youth.

              2.      Staff who observe or receive reports of alleged actions or
                      practices by a substitute care provider that are in conflict with this
                      policy must inform the residential community resource manager,
                      foster care manager, or designee.

              3.      Staff must refer a youth who desires to participate in a religious
                      activity that is not currently available within the community where
                      the youth is placed to the youth's JPPO.

                      The youth's JPPO must facilitate the youth's request for a
                      reasonable accommodation to access religious activities or
                      materials by helping the youth complete a written request with the
                      following information:

                      a)      The name of the religion or belief; and

                      b)      The title and brief description of religious activity requested,
                              including:

                              (1)     The significance of the activity in the practice of the
                                      religion;

                              (2)     How often or under what circumstances the religious
                                      activity will be held in the community;
Page 3 of 4   III-D-8.0 Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements   Effective: 06/07/2022
                              (3)     Minimum time and any physical requirements within
                                      which the religious activity may take place;

                              (4)     Any materials that are required for the religious
                                      activity and their purpose or use, including a list of
                                      any items associated with the religious activity that
                                      the youth would retain, if any;

                              (5)     The title (if any), function, and eligibility requirements
                                      for participants in the activity; and

                              (6)     The name, address and phone number of a
                                      recognized religious representative who can verify the
                                      above information.

              4.      The JPPO and residential community resource manager or foster
                      care manager must review the request and consider:

                      a)      The effects of the request on the safety and security of
                              persons and order of the substitute care placement;

                      b)      Available resources to provide the activity;

                      c)      Alternative means of meeting the request; and

                      d)      Other issues specific to the request.

              5.      The residential community resource manager or foster care
                      manager must provide a written response. A copy must be sent to
                      the youth, JPPO, and field supervisor.

              6.      A youth may appeal a response result by filing a grievance
                      according to OYA policy III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and Grievances.

                      a)      If there is a conflict between a request for a religious practice
                              and the substitute care provider’s interest, the matter will be
                              resolved by OYA in consultation with the affected parties.
                              When necessary, OYA will consult with appropriate religious
                              representatives and other authorities as needed to clarify
                              issues.

                      b)      The decision of the OYA director is final.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4   III-D-8.0 Religious Practices in Substitute Care Placements    Effective: 06/07/2022
