                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                        Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Case Management – 1.1                  III-D-1.1 (6/21)  04/26/2024 Review:
                                           III-D-1.1 (12/19)            04/26/2026
                                           III-D-1.1 (1/07)
                                           III-E-1.4 (12/02)
 Related             ORS 419C.495 When commitment to a youth correctional facility
 Standards            authorized
 and                 ORS 420.045 Parole; discharge; revocation of parole
 References:         OAR 416-410 Close-custody Population
                     OYA policy: III-B-2.0 New Commitments to OYA Legal Custody
                      III-D-2.0 Parole Revocation
                     OYA forms: YA 3001 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement
 Related             Local field office protocol (optional)
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                   _____________________
                                            Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy delineates the development and use of a formal Juvenile
       Parole/Probation Agreement between a youth and the assigned OYA juvenile
       parole/probation officer (JPPO). The agreement defines conditions of community
       supervision.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       PSR: Public Safety Reserve - A number of beds in youth correction facilities that
       are reserved for youth who have been adjudicated for committing a specified
       crime type listed in OAR 416-410-0020 Allocation of Close-custody Beds.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA strives to protect the public and reduce crime by holding youth accountable
       and providing opportunity for reformation in a safe environment. OYA supports
       youth in making positive choices and progressing to lead productive, crime-free
       lives. OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
Page 1 of 4           III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement           Effective: 04/26/2024
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, we play a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Best practices support the use of parole and probation
       agreements that focus on specific needs of youth, use of a gender and culturally
       responsive approach, with intentional focus to reduce bias and ensure equitable
       treatment of youth.

       When a youth is placed in the community, the Juvenile Parole/Probation
       Agreement (YA 3001) may be used to define the parameters of the youth’s
       community behavior while considering public safety, outline the resources to
       support the youth, and assist the youth in making positive choices.

        Parole: The agreement must be developed when a youth is in the process of
         leaving a close-custody facility and moving into a community placement on
         parole. The agreement is also used in the administrative process of revoking
         parole.

        Probation: The agreement may be developed when the court orders a youth
         into OYA legal custody during probation, and may be used to document
         probation conditions ordered by the court. For probation cases, conditions of
         supervision may be delineated in the commitment order.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Development of the Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement

              1.     JPPOs must develop the parole/probation agreement while
                     considering the risk and needs of the youth, victim and community
                     input, culturally relevant services and supports, and potential for
                     bias.

              2.     When providing a copy of the agreement, JPPOs must make
                     reasonable efforts to provide a copy of the parole/probation
                     agreement in the primary language(s) of the youth and
                     parent/guardian.

              3.     Probation Agreement

                     The agreement may be developed or reviewed by the court,
                     stipulating conditions the youth must follow for placement in the
                     community.

                     a)     The court may or may not incorporate the agreement into the
                            commitment order. If it is incorporated, the agreement is
                            authorized for probation cases. If not, the court order will list
                            the conditions of probation.

                     b)     In each case, the agreement clearly defines the expected
                            behavior(s) and obligation(s) of the youth.



Page 2 of 4          III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement      Effective: 04/26/2024
                    c)     The JPPO must ensure that the parent/guardian receives a
                           copy of the document that contains the conditions of
                           probation (e.g., court order or probation agreement), in their
                           primary language when possible. The JPPO must review the
                           agreement or order, answer any questions, clarify
                           expectations, and confirm understanding with the
                           parent/guardian prior to the youth residing or having
                           overnight home visits in the parent/guardian home.

              4.    Parole Agreement

                    Prior to parole, staff must explain and confirm understanding of the
                    expectations and conditions of the agreement with the youth and
                    obtain their signature on the agreement. The signed agreement
                    allows the youth to leave the facility and be placed in the
                    community with the approval of the Parole Review Committee,
                    Agency Case Review (if applicable), and by order of the
                    superintendent/camp director.

                    a)     Field supervisors must approve the parole conditions of
                           youth who were adjudicated for PSR crimes.

                    b)     Release to substitute care placement: JPPOs must review
                           the expectations in the parole agreement with the youth and
                           program staff upon intake.

                           (1)     The JPPO must ensure that the parent/guardian
                                   receives a copy of the parole agreement in their
                                   primary language, when possible, before the youth’s
                                   home visit.

                           (2)     The JPPO must review the agreement, answer any
                                   questions, clarify expectations, and confirm
                                   understanding with the parent/guardian.

                    c)     Release to parent/guardian placement: The JPPO must
                           meet with the youth and the supervising parent/guardian to
                           explain the expectations and conditions of the parole
                           agreement, answer any questions, and confirm
                           understanding with the parent/guardian and youth.

       B.     Modification of the Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement

              1.    Agreements may be modified at the discretion of the JPPO, based
                    on community safety concerns, the youth’s emerging needs, or
                    progress in case plan goals.

              2.    In instances when a youth is moving or is in transition from one
                    community placement to another, the JPPO must develop a new
                    agreement.



Page 3 of 4         III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement    Effective: 04/26/2024
       C.     Routing of the Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement

              1.    The original and any translated versions must be placed in the
                    youth’s field case file.

              2.    Copies may be given to the appropriate juvenile department.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO

       Completing the OYA Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement for OYA probation
       cases is optional. Local offices may establish protocols for the use of this
       document.




Page 4 of 4         III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement   Effective: 04/26/2024
