                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Tribal Notification - Community
 Section – Policy Number:                 Supersedes:            Effective Date:     Date of Last
 B: Intake – 1.0                          III-B-1.0 (06/08) 10/02/2019               Review:
                                                                                     10/02/2025
 Related             ORS 182.162 -168 (Relationship of State Agencies with Indian
 Standards            Tribes)
 and                 Executive Order 96-30 (State/Tribal Government-To-Government
 References:          Relations)
                     Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
                      Detention Facilities; Programming; PEP24
                     OYA policy: II-E-1.3 (Tribal Notification - Facility)
 Related            None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Deputy Director
                                          ________________________
                                          Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       Oregon state law requires state agencies to develop and implement tribal
       relations policies. This policy provides guidelines for relations between OYA and
       federally recognized tribes in Oregon and identifies staff roles in documenting
       tribal information. This policy refers to youth placed in the community.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Federally recognized tribes: American Indian/Alaska Native tribes have a
       special government-to-government relationship with the federal government
       because of treaties or agreements between the two nations. The federal
       government has certain obligations to these tribes and tribal members. The
       federally recognized tribes of Oregon are: Burns Paiute Tribe; Confederated
       Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians; Coquille Indian Tribe; Cow
       Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde;
       Klamath Tribes, Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians; Confederated Tribes of
       Umatilla Indian Reservation; Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs.




Page 1 of 3                 III-B-1.0 Tribal Notification - Community              Effective: 10/02/2019
III.   POLICY:

       OYA identifies American Indian/Alaska Native youth and works with tribal
       governments to provide effective, culturally-relevant services to those youth in
       order to reduce recidivism and protect public safety.

       The Oregon Legislature has determined that state agencies must develop and
       formalize government-to-government relationships with Oregon’s federally
       recognized tribes. In addition, Oregon state law requires that state agencies
       develop and implement tribal relations policies.

       OYA recognizes the unique status of tribal governments as being sovereign
       nations and is committed to the government-to-government relationship with
       Oregon’s nine federally recognized tribes. In pursuit of developing these
       relationships, OYA strives to develop and maintain with each Oregon tribe
       Memoranda of Understandings (MOUs). The MOUs outline the protocols for the
       relationship between OYA and Oregon’s federally recognized tribes.

        OYA’s Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator is the agency’s
        primary liaison between federally recognized tribes, both in Oregon and in other
        states, and OYA. The Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator will
        facilitate communication links between tribal representatives and OYA for the
        purpose of working together to achieve mutual goals, identify policy issues of
        interest to the tribes, provide training to supervisors/managers and facility and
        field staff on tribal governments, and discuss issues of mutual interest or
        concern.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     As a means of collaborating with all federally recognized tribes, OYA will
              make diligent efforts to identify American Indian/Alaska Native youth
              committed to OYA custody and determine their tribal affiliation.
              Identification and determination are made during the intake process or at
              such time as OYA becomes aware of a youth’s American Indian/Alaska
              Native status.

       B.     Role of the Juvenile Parole/Probation Officer (JPPO)

              1.     During pre-commitment meetings, the JPPO will seek clarification
                     from juvenile department staff regarding a youth’s tribal status.

              2.     Once an American Indian/Alaska Native youth committed to OYA
                     custody identifies as a member or descendant of a federally
                     recognized tribe, the JPPO will contact the OYA’s Tribal
                     Liaison/Native American Program coordinator to obtain tribal
                     representative contact information.

              3.     The JPPO or designee is responsible for documenting Native
                     American designation and tribal affiliation in JJIS by accessing the
                     “Tribes” population group and selecting the appropriate tribal
                     affiliation subcategory.


Page 2 of 3                 III-B-1.0 Tribal Notification - Community   Effective: 10/02/2019
              4.    The JPPO will work collaboratively with OYA’s Tribal Liaison/Native
                    American Program coordinator and the tribal representative to seek
                    input on the most appropriate type, level, and provider of services
                    that best meets the needs of the youth.

                    The JPPO will notify tribal representatives (as core members) and
                    the Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator of
                    Multidisciplinary Treatment (MDT) meetings, so they may provide
                    input during the meetings.

              5.    The JPPO will facilitate the provision of identified services and
                    establish a communication plan with the tribal representative. The
                    communication plan will include, but not be limited to, regular
                    updates, key case plan decision points, and other significant events
                    involving the youth. JPPO will document any specific youth-related
                    tribal contacts in the youth’s JJIS notebook.

              6.    The JPPO will notify the Tribal Liaison/Native American Program
                    coordinator when events occur, or are anticipated to occur, that
                    require additional sensitivity to the tribe (e.g., critical incidents,
                    suicide attempts, escapes/runaways, unexpected termination,
                    abbreviated transition, etc.)

       C.     Role of Tribal Liaison/Native American Program Coordinator

              1.    The Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator will make
                    the initial notification to the appropriate tribal representative upon
                    determination of a youth’s affiliation. This notification will be made
                    as soon as reasonably practicable but not more than 30 days from
                    the determination.

              2.    The Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator will
                    document in JJIS tribal contact information, including but not limited
                    to, telephone number, contact, time and date, and enrollment
                    status.

              3.    The Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator will act as
                    liaison and facilitator between OYA and the tribal representative
                    when events occur, or are anticipated to occur, that require
                    additional sensitivity to the tribe.

              4.    The Tribal Liaison/Native American Program coordinator is
                    available to consult on Native American services, tribal resources
                    and other information to support tribal youth during MDT meetings,
                    Agency Case Reviews (DOC early transfers), and decisions about
                    American Indian/Alaska Native youth in OYA custody.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3                III-B-1.0 Tribal Notification - Community      Effective: 10/02/2019
