                               OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                          Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)
 Subject:
 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials, and Sharps in OYA Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                         Supersedes:            Effective Date:    Date of Last
 A: Security – 2.1                       II-A-2.1 (05/12) 01/29/2026     Revision/Review:
                                         II-A-2.1 (03/07)                None
                                         II-A-2.1 (08/96)
 Related            Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
 Standards           Detention Facilities; Security
 and                American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
 References:         Correctional Facilities; 5-JCF-2A-28 (Tools Control); 5-JCF-5C-62
                     (Medical and Dental Instrument Control)
                    OYA policies: II-A-1.0 (Facility Access)
                     II-A-2.0 (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA Facilities)
                     I-C-7.3 (Hazard Communications Program)
                     II-D-1.4 (Medication Management in OYA Facilities)
                    OYA forms: YA 4008 Facility Youth Prohibited Items
                    Attachment A: Dangerous Tools, Hazardous Materials, and
                     Sharps
 Related            Facility local protocols
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                    Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director
                                                  _______________________
                                                  Mike Tessean, Director

I.      PURPOSE:
        The purpose of this policy is to establish an effective agency plan to ensure
        control of tools, hazardous materials, and sharps and promote safe operations in
        all areas of OYA close-custody facilities.

II.     POLICY DEFINITIONS:
        Dangerous Tools: Tools that when used inappropriately may cause death,
        injury, or be used as an escape device or weapon.
        Hazardous Materials: Solvents and other chemicals or products that may cause
        death or serious injury if used inappropriately.
        Sharps: Medical or dental instruments, kitchen items, and hygiene items that
        can penetrate the skin (e.g., needles, scalpel blades, kitchen knives, and razor
        blades).




Page 1 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
III.    POLICY:

        OYA provides a safe and secure environment in all OYA facilities. Proper
        guidelines for control, storage, and accountability of tools, hazardous materials
        and sharps must be followed by all staff and youth to avoid potential risk of
        death, injury, weapons manufacture, or escape.

        Medication control is delineated in OYA policy II-D-1.4 Medication Management
        in OYA Facilities.

IV.     GENERAL STANDARDS:

        A.      All facility staff members must verify by signature that they have read and
                understood this policy.

        B.      All facility staff are responsible for controlling tools, hazardous materials,
                and sharps in their facility. Each staff member is directly responsible for
                controlling these items in the staff member’s work area.

        C.      Staff must account for tools that are not classified as "dangerous tools"
                due to the potential risk of youth misusing or altering any tool.

        D.      Staff must directly supervise youth who are using dangerous tools,
                hazardous materials, or sharps.

        E.      Staff who use tools, hazardous materials or sharps or supervise youth
                who use these items must ensure the item is used properly and account
                for each item prior to the end of any work period (meal breaks, workday).

        F.      Staff must search a youth when a youth is exiting a vocational training
                program, work assignment, or other secure area to ensure the youth does
                not possess a tool, sharp, or hazardous material. The search must comply
                with OYA policy II-A-2.0 Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA
                Facilities.

        G.      Staff must maintain dangerous tools, sharps, and hazardous materials in a
                secure location when not in use.

                See Attachment A for a list of dangerous tools, hazardous materials, and
                sharps that must be secured when not in use.

        H.      When possible, staff must mark, etch, color-code, or tag tools and sharps
                with an identifier to denote its proper location on site.

        I.      Sharps cabinets on living units will be inventoried at the beginning and
                end of every shift.




Page 2 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
V.      STORAGE AND INVENTORY:

        A.      Each facility will designate a staff member as the facility's tool control
                coordinator. This staff member will ensure storage of dangerous tools,
                hazardous materials, and sharps is appropriate.

        B.      A shadow board is considered the best method of storing all tools which
                can be mounted. Staff must use shadow boards when storing dangerous
                tools when possible.

                1.       Only one tool may be kept on each shadow.

                2.       The shadow must be identical in size and shape of the tool.

        C.      Staff must store dangerous tools not adaptable to a shadow board in a
                locked drawer, cabinet, or other locked container.

        D.      Staff must maintain individual toolboxes containing tools used on a daily
                basis secured with a lock. The staff member responsible for the toolbox
                must keep an inventory sheet in the toolbox.

        E.      Staff may store large quantities of maintenance tools and landscape tools
                in locked tool cages.

        F.      Excess/surplus tools/sharps must ideally be stored outside the secure
                perimeter of the facility.

                When these excess items are stored within the secure perimeter, staff
                must inventory and account for them.

                1.       The storage area must be secured with a lock with a restricted core
                         different from cores used for operational secured items.

                2.       The storage area must not be accessible by keys carried by staff in
                         the course of daily operations.

                3.       Staff must never allow youth into the storage area.

        G.      Sharps containers must be strategically located in areas of use for the
                storage and disposal of sharps and contraband sharps requiring secure
                storage.

        H.      Routine monthly facility inspections will include area inspections of
                dangerous tools, hazardous materials, and sharps.

        I.      Staff responsible for tools, hazardous materials, or sharps in their work
                areas must maintain a tool or material inventory posted conspicuously
                where the items are stored.

        J.      The tool control coordinator must review inventories of tools, hazardous
                materials, and sharps monthly.


Page 3 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
        K.      Tool control audits must be conducted by the tool control coordinator
                every six months with written reports submitted to the facility
                superintendent or camp director.

        L.      Each facility must build and sustain a master inventory of all tools and
                sharps that is maintained and retained by the facility’s tool control
                coordinator.

VI.     MAINTENANCE CONTRACTORS

        Staff must subject all people who enter an OYA facility's grounds or perimeter for
        official business with non-OYA equipment or tools to the safety and security
        requirements outlined in OYA policy II-A-1.0 (Facility Access) regarding tools and
        equipment.

VII.    FOOD SERVICE TOOLS and HIGH RISK FOOD PRODUCTS

        A.      Staff must ensure all knives in the food service area are attached to a
                workstation or table (tethered) when youth are present in kitchen areas.

        B.      Staff must maintain an inventory for high-risk food products youth are
                prohibited from possessing. These products include yeast, cayenne
                pepper, hot peppers, and poppy seeds. (See OYA form YA 4008 Facility
                Youth Prohibited Items for the entire list of prohibited items).

        C.      Staff must account for all reusable eating utensils after each meal.

        D.      Staff must secure tin can lids from youth access.

VIII.   ONSITE SCHOOL TOOL CONTROL

        The OYA Facility Education Administrator must ensure facility school policies and
        procedures adhere to the standards set in this policy.

IX.     HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CONTROL

        A.      Staff must handle and store hazardous materials as described in OYA
                policy I-C-7.3 Hazard Communications Program.

        B.      Staff may be issued hazardous materials for work purposes.

        C.      Staff must use hazardous materials consistent with the provisions and
                precautions listed on the material's Safety Data Sheet (SDS).

        D.      Staff may issue a youth a diluted chemical, cleaning agent, or caustic
                material only in the quantity required to accomplish an immediate task.
                Unused and undiluted materials may not be stored in areas accessible to
                youth.

        E.      Staff must ensure containers containing hazardous materials are labeled
                to identify the contents. This includes diluted hazardous materials issued


Page 4 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
                to youth or drawn by staff from a point of supply and put into canisters or
                dispensers.

        F.      Staff must ensure flammable materials are managed and controlled as
                hazardous materials and stored in flammable materials lockers in
                accordance with state and local fire codes.

X.      MISSING TOOLS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, AND SHARPS

        A.      When a dangerous tool, hazardous material, or sharp is missing, the staff
                member using or supervising the use of the tool, material or sharp must
                immediately verbally notify the staff member’s supervisor/OD and security
                staff (if available).

                The staff member must also complete a written notification of the event to
                the facility superintendent or camp director prior to the end of the staff
                member's work shift.

        B.      If the staff member becomes aware of the missing dangerous tool,
                hazardous material, or sharp while youth who had access to the item are
                still on site, the staff member must keep the youth on site until a thorough
                search of the site is conducted.

        C.      If the missing dangerous tool, hazardous material, or sharp is not found
                during the search, staff must verbally update the staff member's
                supervisor/OD and security staff (if available) of the continued missing
                item.

                Facility management must ensure security measures are taken according
                to the risk involved.

        D.      Whenever a missing dangerous tool, hazardous material, or sharp is
                found during any search, staff must follow the confiscation process
                described in OYA policy II-A-2.0 Searches of Youth and Youth Property in
                OYA Facilities.

                1.       The tool control coordinator must check the confiscated item
                         against inventories to determine whether it is a missing facility tool,
                         material, or sharp or an unaccounted for contraband item.

                2.       The tool control coordinator must follow up with staff as needed.

XI.     DISPOSAL AND REPLACEMENT

        A.      Staff must ensure tools, hazardous material containers, and sharps, and
                sharps containers are in good repair to ensure safety.

        B.      Staff must document when tools or equipment is sent out for repair on the
                inventory log.

        C.      Staff must document when a tool or sharp is broken or worn-out on the
                inventory log. The staff member must ensure the item is destroyed or

Page 5 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
                disposed of in a secure area and removed from the written inventory. If the
                item was stored on a shadow board, the shadow must be eliminated
                unless an identical replacement is put into use.

        D.      Staff must ensure replacement tools are identified and stored
                appropriately and the inventory or shadow board adjusted accordingly.

XII.    LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

        Each facility must develop a local protocol to address:

        A.      Storage of tools, hazardous materials and sharps in a manner that would
                make any loss or removal immediately apparent.

                Each facility must develop a system to account for all tools, hazardous
                materials and sharps in the facility (e.g., shadow boards, color code tools
                by work area, check out tools before and after each class period in
                school).

        B.      Inventory of tools, hazardous materials, and sharps.

        C.      Lost or missing tools, hazardous materials, and sharps.

        D.      Supervision of youth using tools, hazardous materials, and sharps.




Page 6 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
Attachment A: Dangerous Tools, Hazardous Materials, and Sharps

The below-listed items are considered dangerous tools, hazardous materials, or sharps
as described in this policy.

Each OYA facility may add to the list below when deemed appropriate by the facility's
administration.

1.      Metal cutting tools including hacksaws, blades, chisels, files, drills and drill bits,
        bolt cutters, pipe cutters, wire cutters.

2.      Power tools, portable jacks and hoists.

3.      Hand tools readily usable or adaptable as a weapon, escape device, or to defeat
        locking or security systems such as screwdrivers, pliers, wrenches, saws, mop
        handles, broom handles, hoes, and rakes.

4.      Acetylene torches, cutting tips, arc welders, plasma cutting equipment.

5.      Grinders, emery wheels, abrasive discs, and etching or engraving tools; hones,
        and sharpening tools.

6.      Tubing, pipe, and conduit benders; rope, chain, wire, cable and electrical cords.

7.      Surgical instruments, hypodermic needles, syringes, medical and dental
        instruments.

8.      Utility and carpet knives, kitchen knives.

9.      Cleavers, ice picks, meat cutters, and glass containers or sheet glass.

10.     Paper cutters, x-acto knives, scissors; electric, fiberglass, medical, or masking
        tape.

11.     Ladders, garden hoses, gasoline powered or electric lawn care equipment, snow
        removal equipment, pitchforks, fertilizer.

12.     Axes, hatchets, sledgehammers.

13.     Barber tools, scissors, nail clippers, loose razor blades, straight razors, sewing or
        knitting needles.

14.     Flammable, corrosive, or toxic material, including cleaning supplies and fire
        extinguishers; paint, glue, or other items that cause hallucinatory effects when
        inhaled or ingested.

15.     Duplicating and printing equipment, fluids, and powders; photographic
        equipment.




Page 7 of 7   II-A-2.1 Control of Tools, Hazardous Materials and Sharps in OYA Facilities   Effective: 01/29/2026
