                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and State Corporate Travel Card
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:       Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                 Review/Revision:
 B: Financial Management – 2.1            I-B-2.1 (6/22) 06/22/2026
                                          I-B-2.1 (1/20)                 None
                                          I-B-2.1 (2/15)
                                          I-B-2.1 (6/13)
                                          I-B-2.1 (3/11)
                                          I-B-2.1 (6/09)
 Related             ORS Chapter 279A (Public Contracting – General Provisions)
 Standards           ORS Chapter 279B (Public Contracting – Procurement)
 and                 ORS Chapter 279C (Public Contracting – Public Improvements
 References:          and Related Contracts)
                     OAR Chapter 125 Division 55 (State Purchasing)
                     OAR Chapter 125 Division 246 (General Provisions for Public
                      Contracting)
                     OAR Chapter 125 Division 247 (Public Procurement of Supplies
                      and Services)
                     Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Oregon Accounting
                      Manual (OAM): 55.30.00 PO (SPOTS Purchase Card Program)
                      40.20.00 PO (Travel Advances and Corporate Travel Card)
                     OYA policy: I-B-2.0 (Delegation for Expenditures & Payment
                      Obligation Approval)
                     DAS forms: 75.40.03.FO (Corporate Travel Card Agreement)
                      75.55.02.FO (Small Purchase Order Transaction System
                      (SPOTS) Purchase Card Application and Agreement)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Chief Financial Officer
                                             ________________________
                                             Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides general standards for OYA staff when obtaining and using
       state purchases (SPOTS cards) or travel cards.




Page 1 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and          Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Activity Log: List of credit card transaction information generated from a bank’s
       Online System.

       Application: OYA’s State P-Card of Oregon Transaction System (SPOTS) Card
       Application and Agreement.

       Approving officer: Agency staff member appointed by the agency head or
       person with delegated authority to act as administrator of the agency SPOTS
       program, and authorize SPOTS card issuance and usage.

       Card custodian: The OYA staff member responsible for administering,
       controlling, and safeguarding an assigned department card.

       Cardholder: OYA staff to whom a SPOTS card is issued in their name.

       Card user: A global term for those staff who make purchases with a SPOTS card.

       Department card: A SPOTS card issued to a program, department, or other
       segment and assigned to a card custodian.

       Designated card user: An individual OYA staff member authorized to use a
       department card.

       Online system: A bank’s web-based system to manage credit card accounts.

       SPOTS (State P-Card of Oregon Transaction System) card: A state-
       sponsored credit card agencies may use to procure goods and services.

       SPOTS coordinator: Agency staff member appointed by the approving officer to
       update cardholder information on the bank’s Web-based system, change
       cardholders’ spending limits, and monitor card activities delegated to them.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA maximizes flexibility for agency purchases, minimizes administrative costs,
       and expedites payments to OYA suppliers. Staff must follow the general
       standards listed in this policy when obtaining and using state purchase cards
       (SPOTS card) or travel cards.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, to build a respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for
       youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination, and bias. The
       SPOTS card program and use must support this initiative.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      SPOTS Card and Travel Card Purpose

               1.     Staff may obtain a SPOTS card for all purchases of goods and
                      trade services.
Page 2 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and      Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
                      a)      Purchase cards acquired through the state’s contract is the
                              preferred method for making purchases of goods when
                              procurement rules allow.

                              (1)    Software purchases may require Department of
                                     Administrative Services (DAS) Enterprise Information
                                     Security (EIS) approval. Check with Information
                                     Systems prior to purchasing software.

                              (2)    The use of purchase orders and other methods for
                                     purchases must be minimized.

                              (3)    All purchases must comply with all procurement rules,
                                     policy, and procedures.

                      b)      Higher purchase limits may be given to staff who have
                              demonstrated a business need upon management’s request
                              and the OYA approving officer’s approval.

                              (1)    Single purchase limit requests greater than $10,000
                                     per purchase require additional training and approval
                                     by the OYA Procurement Team.

                              (2)    Monthly purchase limit requests greater than $50,000
                                     require DAS approval.

               2.     Staff may obtain a state corporate travel card for state-related travel
                      costs (except for lodging) if the staff travels frequently. Staff may
                      get a travel card rather than a cash advance from the state. Refer
                      to DAS statewide policy OAM 40.20.00 (Travel Advances and
                      Corporate Travel Card).

       B.      Program Administration

               1.     To reduce the potential for duplicate payments, a single established
                      payment method is preferred.

                      a)      All lodging must be paid with a SPOTS card.

                      b)      Lodging purchases must follow GSA in accordance with DAS
                              policy OAM 40.10.00 Travel Advances and Corporate Travel
                              Card.

                      c)      Personal reimbursement for lodging will be processed on an
                              exception basis.

               2.     Card limits

                      Monthly and per purchase credit limits may be established based on
                      anticipated business needs.



Page 3 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and     Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
                      a)      Changes to limits may be temporarily or permanently approved
                              by the cardholder’s supervisor and approving officer based on
                              justified need.

                              (1)    Refer to additional approvals outlined in section A.1.b.
                                     above.

                              (2)    The SPOTS coordinator or designee must conduct
                                     periodic reviews of credit limits to determine if
                                     adjustments are necessary based on actual spending.

                      b)      All cards must have specific Merchant Category Codes (MCCs)
                              blocked according to DAS OAM policy to prevent high-risk
                              purchases from high-risk vendors.

                              Exceptions must be approved by DAS Financial Business
                              Services (FBS).

                      c)      All lodging MCCs must also be blocked from all SPOTS cards.

                              Exceptions for specific staff required to make travel
                              arrangements as part of their job duties may be approved to
                              have lodging MCCs unblocked upon completion of additional
                              training and approval by the approving officer.

               3.     Exceptions

                      a)      Exceptions to this policy must comply with Oregon Accounting
                              Manual (OAM) 55.30.00 SPOTS Purchase Card Program, have
                              written justification, and prior approval from the cardholder’s
                              supervisor or assistant director and approving officer.

                      b)      Exceptions to OAM 55.30.00 SPOTS Purchase Card Program
                              must have written prior approval by DAS Financial Business
                              Services.

               4.     Cardholders and card custodians will be granted access by the
                      SPOTS coordinator to their cardholder accounts in the online
                      system.

               5.     SPOTS coordinators must be granted access to all cardholder
                      accounts in the online system.

               6.     Inactive or infrequently used accounts

                      Accounts must be reviewed quarterly by the SPOTS coordinator for
                      lack of use and determined if there is a continued need.

               7.     Emergency card

                      Emergency response card(s) may be issued as part of the emergency
                      preparedness plan to the OYA director as deemed appropriate by the
                      agency.
Page 4 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and       Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
       C.      Obtaining a SPOTS Card

               1.     Staff must request a SPOTS card from their supervisor/manager
                      and complete an OYA SPOTS application.

               2.     The authorized cardholder must complete applicable DAS-
                      approved OYA SPOTS training on allowable uses and
                      recordkeeping requirements before receiving the card.

               3.     Cardholders requesting per-purchase limits over $10,000 must
                      complete additional training and receive approval from OYA
                      Procurement.

               4.     For monthly credit limit requests over $50,000, the SPOTS
                      coordinator must forward the request to DAS FBS for approval.

               5.     The SPOTS coordinator must review applications for completeness
                      and accuracy and forward the applications to OYA’s approving
                      officer for authorization and signature.

               6.     A cardholder may also be a card custodian, a designated card user,
                      or both.

       D.      SPOTS Card Use

               1.     Card users are subject to policies and guidelines described in the
                      SPOTS card application, the corporate charge card
                      acknowledgment form, state purchasing rules, Oregon Accounting
                      Manual (OAM), and related training and procedural documents
                      administered by Financial Services.

               2.     SPOTS card users must only use SPOTS cards for authorized
                      purchases that further the state’s business.

               3.     SPOTS card users must not use the SPOTS card for personal
                      purchases or personal gain.

               4.     SPOTS card users must use the state’s procurement Buy Decision
                      checklist for each purchase.

                      The Buy Decision listed in priority order below must be followed.
                      Only if the below do not yield results may a purchase be made from
                      the open market.
                      https://www.oregon.gov/das/OPM/Pages/method.aspx

                      a)      Surplus property;

                      b)      OregonForward (OFC) – formerly Qualified Rehabilitation
                              Facility Program (QRF);



Page 5 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and   Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
                      c)      Adult in custody labor (Oregon Correction Enterprises and
                              DOC adult in custody labor, refer to the Buy Decision link
                              above); or

                      d)      DAS statewide price agreements.

               5.     SPOTS card users must check the OYA Where to Buy List for
                      guidance on selection of vendors, and prioritize use of Certification
                      Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity (COBID) certified firms.

               6.     Prior to acceptance of online or other terms and conditions, SPOTS
                      card users must contact agency procurement staff.

               7.     Authorized card users who have completed required training
                      related to the procurement of lodging may purchase lodging on a
                      SPOTS card. Authorization is granted at the supervisor’s request
                      and approval of the approving officer.

                      a)      Card users must not procure meals or other personal lodging
                              expenses.

                      b)      Card users must not procure their own travel
                              accommodations.

                      c)      Staff must not approve their own travel expenses.

                      d)      Lodging expenses must be substantiated within 60 days
                              after the travel expense is paid or incurred to avoid having
                              the costs added to the W-2 as taxable wages.

                              Substantiation must include a detailed receipt signed by the
                              traveler.

               8.     Cardholders and card custodians must monitor account activity
                      periodically for appropriateness and accuracy, including recurring
                      charges.

       E.      Card Custodian Responsibilities

               Card custodians must:

               1.     Manage physical custody and security of the SPOTS card and
                      account number;

               2.     Maintain records of card checkout and check-in by designated card
                      users;

               3.     Maintain purchase documentation and receipts;

               4.     Ensure card use complies with agency policies and procedures;


Page 6 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and      Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
               5.     Reconcile bank transactions with receipts monthly;

               6.     Complete coding and comments in the online system monthly by
                      the due date designated by the SPOTS coordinator; and

               7.     Submit complete documentation to OYA Accounting monthly by the
                      due date designated by the SPOTS coordinator.

       F.      Designated Card User Responsibilities

               Designated card users must:

               1.     Complete the SPOTS training before first checkout of a SPOTS
                      card.

               2.     Check the card in and out from the card custodian;

               3.     Use the card in compliance with all agency policies and
                      procedures, obtain pre-approval from applicable managers when
                      appropriate; and

               4.     Timely submit detailed, signed receipts to the card custodian.

       G.      Cardholder Responsibilities

               Cardholders must:

               1.     Sufficiently document each purchase;

               2.     Submit a detailed receipt or invoice that includes:

                      a)      Name of the vendor;

                      b)      Date of purchase;

                      c)      Item description;

                      d)      Cost of each item purchased; and

                      e)      Reason for purchase.

               3.     Ensure timely and accurate coding for each purchase is entered
                      into Online System by the due date established by the SPOTS
                      coordinator;

               4.     Obtain the cardholder’s supervisor’s approval on the Activity Log
                      indicating review of purchase and documentation. If the supervisor
                      does not have expenditure authority for the purchase, the manager
                      with the expenditure authority must approve a detailed invoice or
                      other purchase documentation;


Page 7 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and     Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
               5.     Document lodging purchases within 60 days of the travel.
                      Documentation must consist of a detailed receipt from the hotel
                      documenting the stay and signed by the traveler attesting to the
                      receipt of services;

               6.     Obtain independent verification by OYA team member that the
                      agency received the product or service. The accounting manager
                      may approve exceptions in certain circumstances where receipt of
                      service is automatic or implied;

               7.     Document Open Market purchases outside the Buy Decision with a
                      brief but specific justification, including options explored;

               8.     Have a manager who has the delegated authority for coding used
                      according to their YA 2201 approve each invoice or receipt;

               9.     Reconcile the activity log to the statement and other supporting
                      documentation, ensuring all transactions are valid and documenting
                      any discrepancies;

               10.    Submit the completed activity log and supporting documents to the
                      SPOTS coordinator by the due date established by the SPOTS
                      coordinator;

               11.    Ensure all cards, card-related PINs, and account passwords are
                      secured and controlled by the cardholder at all times, including after
                      hours, while unattended, or not in the cardholder’s possession;

               12.    Participate in training administered by the SPOTS coordinator at
                      least every other year after obtaining a SPOTS card or as
                      requested by the cardholder’s supervisor/manager or the approving
                      officer;

               13.    Obtain written approval from a requesting manager that has been
                      delegated purchasing authority before purchasing outside the
                      cardholder’s scope of authority;

               14.    Immediately notify the bank and SPOTS coordinator if a SPOTS
                      card is lost or stolen;

               15.    Immediately notify the SPOTS coordinator when the cardholder is
                      out on extended leave from their current position (e.g., job rotation,
                      military leave);

               16.    Properly destroy the SPOTS card at position termination or if
                      cancelling the card. The cardholder must notify the SPOTS
                      coordinator of cancellation or termination immediately, include the
                      date of the last transaction, and submit final documentation to the
                      SPOTS coordinator as described above; and



Page 8 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and     Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
               17.    The cardholder must also submit documentation to the SPOTS
                      coordinator of final purchases.

       H.      Supervisor Responsibilities

               The cardholder or card custodian’s supervisor are responsible for the
               below activities.

               1.     Complete related training administered by the SPOTS coordinator
                      before approving SPOTS card transactions and at least every other
                      year thereafter.

               2.     Review the cardholder or card custodian’s transactions as follows:

                      a)      Review each transaction for appropriateness, accuracy,
                              completeness, and fraud, and follow up as appropriate; and

                      b)      Sign the Activity Log, which confirms each purchase of
                              goods or services has been received by OYA, is reasonable,
                              and furthers OYA’s mission.

               3.     Assign work in a way to ensure the following roles and
                      responsibilities are not performed by the same staff member:

                      a)      Purchaser - performed by the cardholder;

                      b)      Receiver – independently reviews and verifies the purchased
                              items or services were received; and

                      c)      Management approval.

                      d)      Exceptions may be allowed by the accounting manager
                              under certain circumstances on a case-by-case basis.

               4.     Upon first knowledge of cardholder termination from OYA:

                      a)      Notify the SPOTS coordinator of the cardholder’s
                              termination; and

                      b)      Ensure the cardholder properly destroys the card and
                              submits the final documentation described above (section
                              G.17).

               5.     Immediately report all cases of actual or suspected fraud, abuse, or
                      misuse to the approving officer.

       I.      Monthly Payment and Reconciliation

               1.     Financial Services staff must make weekly payments for
                      transactions posted by the bank during the previous week. The
                      payments must be coded to a clearing account until they are

Page 9 of 11   I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and   Effective: 06/22/2026
                       State Corporate Travel Card
                      transferred monthly to a proper accounting code as indicated in the
                      online system.

              2.      Financial Services staff must reconcile monthly memo statements
                      with weekly payments and monthly transfers.

       J.     Inappropriate SPOTS Card Use

              1.      Inappropriate SPOTS card actions, as defined in OAM policy
                      10.40.00, may result in disciplinary action, including dismissal,
                      forfeiture of the card, and personal liability.

              2.      Inappropriate use includes, but is not limited to:

                      a)     Any intentional personal use or a pattern of unintentional
                             use. Personal use is defined in the application;

                      b)     Disregard for SPOTS card agreement guidelines, purchasing
                             rules, or cardholder responsibilities as described in
                             section G. above;

                      c)     Fragmentation - When a purchase is artificially divided or
                             fragmented so as to qualify as a small procurement or
                             eligible for purchase through a SPOTS card;

                      d)     Unauthorized use as described in the card application and
                             agreement;

                      e)     A pattern of missing or late submittal of documentation; or

                      f)     A pattern of incorrect coding or insufficient documentation.

              3.      Cardholders must reimburse the state for inappropriate purchases.
                      Financial Services will initiate the collection of reimbursement from
                      staff, and the staff’s supervisor or assistant director will initiate
                      appropriate personnel actions.

       K.     SPOTS Card Compliance Review

              1.      Financial Services staff must perform periodic reviews of supporting
                      documentation for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with
                      related policies and procedures. Financial Services staff will notify
                      the cardholder and cardholder’s supervisor of non-compliance
                      issues.

              2.      Financial Services staff, in collaboration with the cardholder’s
                      supervisor, must develop a corrective action plan or follow-up
                      action plan, as needed.




Page 10 of 11 I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and          Effective: 06/22/2026
                      State Corporate Travel Card
                      The cardholder’s failure to meet the objectives of a corrective action
                      plan or follow-up action plan may result in suspension or forfeiture
                      of the SPOTS card.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 11 of 11 I-B-2.1 Use of State Purchase Card (SPOTS Card) and      Effective: 06/22/2026
                      State Corporate Travel Card
