                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                                Part II - Youth Services

 Subject:
 Youth Use of Telephones
 Section – Policy Number:               Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                        II-F-3.4 (7/08)                        Revision:
 F: Justice – 3.4                       II-F-3.4.a (02/07)   10/25/2010        12/08/2022
                                                                               (Replaced “hotline”
                                        II-F-3.4 (05/04)                       with “reporting line”)
                                        II-F-3.4 (01/96)                       Reviewed:
                                                                               01/17/2025
 Related             OAR 416-150-0020 (Attorney Interview)
 Standards           Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
 and                  Detention Facilities; Programming; Justice
 References:         American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                      Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-3A-16 (Telephones)
                     OYA policy: I-D-4.0 (Professional Standards Office)
                      I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                      Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                      II-F-1.1 (Youth Grievance Process)
                      II-F-3.6 (Youth Legal Materials and Assistance)
 Related             Facilitywide procedure: FAC I-E-4.0 Youth Incident Report
 Procedures:
 Interpretation:                        Approved:

 Facility Services;
 Professional Standards Office
                                        _____________________
                                        Colette S. Peters, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff regarding youth telephone use in
       OYA facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None

III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes the importance of communication between the youth in its
       custody and their families and members of the community. Such communication
       allows youth to maintain contact with their families and community, and
       contributes to effective planning for a youth’s treatment needs. In an effort to
       maintain this communication, each facility will follow the use of telephone policy
Page 1 of 4           II-F-3.4 Youth Use of Telephones                     Effective: 10/25/2010
       and procedures described herein while also providing security within close-
       custody programs. Youth telephone use will be reasonable, equitable, and
       provide a reasonable amount of privacy.

       OYA established the OYA Reporting Line (formerly “Hotline”) telephone number
       consistent with its mission of providing opportunities for reformation in safe
       environments. Youth may call the OYA Reporting Line to make complaints
       related to safety, abuse, or youth rights. Calls to the OYA Reporting Line may be
       anonymous. Youth are given as much privacy as possible within the limitations of
       the facility’s physical design while making OYA Reporting Line calls. Youth
       information acquired through the OYA Reporting Line process is confidential. The
       OYA Reporting Line is not intended to replace the Youth grievance process
       described in OYA policy II-F-1.1 (Youth Grievance Process). Calls made to the
       OYA Reporting Line are recorded, reviewed, and responded to by Professional
       Standards Office (PSO) staff during business hours/days.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS and PROCEDURE:

       A.     Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD)

              1.    Youth with hearing or speech disabilities, and youth who wish to
                    communicate with people who have such disabilities, will be
                    afforded access to a TDD or comparable equipment.

              2.    Telephones with volume control will be made available to youth
                    who are hard of hearing.

       B.     Attorney Telephone Calls

              All communication between a youth and their attorney or the attorney’s
              authorized representative is confidential. See OYA policy
              II-F-3.6 (Youth Legal Assistance) regarding attorney telephone calls.

       C.     Regular Telephone Calls

              Regular telephone calls are calls a youth may receive or make to maintain
              family or community ties consistent with the youth’s case plan.

              1.    A youth may receive or make a minimum of one regular telephone
                    call from/to a family member per week. The length of the call must
                    be at least 10 minutes in duration. These outgoing telephone calls
                    are paid for by OYA.

                    Telephone calls beyond the minimum may be allotted according to
                    the facility’s behavior management system.

              2.    Each facility must establish the hours during which a telephone is
                    available to youth.

              3.    Staff must verify the telephone number and person the youth
                    wishes to call have been approved by the youth’s treatment team


Page 2 of 4         II-F-3.4 Youth Use of Telephones                Effective: 10/25/2010
                     prior to allowing the telephone call. Approved telephone numbers
                     are normally located in the youth’s JJIS profile.

              4.     Staff must place and ensure the approved party answers before the
                     youth accesses the telephone.

              5.     Staff must remain in visual and audio proximity to monitor the youth
                     for safety and security reasons while the youth is on the telephone.

              6.     Staff must terminate a telephone call if they believe that one of the
                     parties participating in the call is being verbally abusive or
                     committing a facility behavior violation.

                     Terminated telephone calls related to a youth’s behavior violation
                     must be documented in a Youth Incident Report (YIR). See
                     facilitywide procedure FAC I-E-1.0 Youth Incident Report.

              7.     Staff must document all attempted or completed regular telephone
                     calls in the youth’s JJIS “Visits/Phone Calls” tab.

              8.     Staff must also follow the above procedure for youth regular
                     incoming telephone calls.

      D.      OYA Reporting Line

              Staff must allow a youth access to a telephone to call the OYA Reporting
              Line regarding safety, abuse, or youth rights issues as soon as possible
              from the youth’s request to call, and prior to the end of the staff member’s
              shift.

              1.     Staff must give the youth as much privacy as possible within the
                     limitations of the facility’s physical design while making an OYA
                     Reporting Line call. Youth information acquired through the OYA
                     Reporting Line process is confidential.

                     a)     Staff must not ask the youth the purpose of the call.

                     b)     Staff must not document the call in JJIS. Reporting Line
                            calls are not tracked in JJIS.

                     c)     Staff must ensure only the OYA Reporting Line number
                            1-800-315-5440 is called.

                     d)     Staff must not deliberately listen to the youth’s conversation.

                     e)     Staff may visually monitor the youth for safety and security
                            reasons while the youth is on the telephone.

              2.     If the call cannot be completed by the end of the staff member’s
                     shift, the staff member must notify their on-duty supervisor or
                     officer-of-the-day (OD) of the youth’s request to call the OYA
                     Reporting Line.
Page 3 of 4          II-F-3.4 Youth Use of Telephones                  Effective: 10/25/2010
                   a)     The supervisor or OD must ensure the youth calls the OYA
                          Reporting Line during the next shift.

                   b)     If the call is delayed because the youth poses a danger to
                          self or others, the supervisor or OD must notify the
                          Professional Standards Office (PSO) of the youth’s request.

              3.   PSO staff must review recorded calls received through the OYA
                   Reporting Line.

                   PSO staff must respond to the OYA Reporting Line calls as soon as
                   possible.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROCEDURE REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4        II-F-3.4 Youth Use of Telephones                Effective: 10/25/2010
