                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                        Part III – Youth Services (Community)
 Subject:
 Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and Treatment in Community
 Settings
Section – Policy Number:                        Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
C: Case Planning and Review – 3.1           III-C-3.1 (07/20) 01/29/2026                Review/Revision:
                                            III-C-3.1 (10/10)               None
Related                 ORS 182.515 –182.525 (Evidence-based Programs)
Standards and           ORS 419C.486 (Consideration of recommendations of committing
References:              court; case planning)
                        ORS 420A.125 (Adjudicated youths; intake assessments;
                         reformation plan; placement)
                        ORS 420A.135 Secure regional youth facilities
                        ORS 420A.145 Regional youth accountability camps
                        ORS 420A.155 Regional residential academies
                        OAR 309-032 (Community Treatment and Support Services)
                        Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 5 (DSM 5)
                        OYA policy: I-A-11.0 (Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and
                         Case Planning)
                        JJIS forms: JJIS YA 3002CP (Comprehensive Case Plan)
                         JJIS (Risk/Needs Assessment)
                         OYA 4465 (JJIS Assessment Youth SUD Diagnostic)
Related                 None
Procedures:
Policy Owner:                                   Approved:

Assistant Director Development
Services
                                                ________________________
                                                Mike Tessean, Director

I.      PURPOSE:

        This policy outlines the type of substance use assessment, treatment curriculum
        and treatment dosage OYA staff may refer OYA youth to in community settings.

II.     POLICY DEFINITIONS:

        Assessment: A process of evaluating, diagnosing, and determining an
        appropriate level of service based on information obtained from the youth in a
        personal interview and from other sources, which may include substance use
        screening and assessment instruments.

        Case Plan: A formal plan with prescribed interventions and documentation
        requirements and a tool to assist staff in managing cases, setting goals and
Page 1 of 4 III-C-3.1 Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and Treatment in Community Settings
                                                                                      Effective: 01/29/2026
        reviewing youth interventions and progress. Case plans are created and
        maintained in the Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS).

        Community SUD programs: SUD treatment provided in a community-based
        setting (e.g., community mental health centers, private practice) that varies in
        frequency, duration, and intensity.

        SUD: Substance Use Disorder.

III.    POLICY:

        OYA’s work with youth includes protecting the public by ensuring youth
        accountability, promoting positive change, developing and improving skills, and
        reducing recidivism. Consistent with best practice, assessment identifies key risk
        and protective factors. Psychological, sociological, cultural, and other factors are
        considered during assessment in addition to underlying reasons for risky
        behavior. An essential part of the assessment process is to appropriately
        safeguard against making inappropriate referrals, duplicating, or unnecessarily
        restricting placements.

        OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
        initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive
        environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
        bias. OYA works toward greater equity by providing all youth with the culturally
        appropriate services and supports they need to access and fully participate in
        substance use treatment.

        Youth with untreated substance use problems have been found to return to
        substance use and illegal activity at higher rates than those who have been
        treated. This policy outlines standards for assessment and treatment referral for
        SUD for youth in community placements.

IV.     GENERAL STANDARDS:

        A.      Substance Use Screening and Assessment

                1.      OYA youth on probation

                        a)      Upon a youth’s commitment to OYA probation, a juvenile
                                parole/probation officer (JPPO) must identify any substance
                                use concerns by reviewing the youth’s history of substance
                                use, OYA Risk and Needs Assessment 2.0 (RNA), Juvenile
                                Crime Prevention assessment (JCP), and recent substance
                                use assessments.

                                See OYA policy III-B-2.0 New Commitments to OYA Legal
                                Custody for more information about required assessments.

                        b)      If there are substance use concerns and no completed
                                substance use assessments within the last six months, the


Page 2 of 4 III-C-3.1 Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and Treatment in Community Settings
                                                                                      Effective: 01/29/2026
                                youth must promptly be referred for a substance use
                                screening or assessment.

                        c)      The screening or assessment tool must meet American
                                Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) criteria.

                2.      OYA paroled youth

                        JPPOs must ensure paroled youth who require continued SUD
                        treatment are referred for such treatment. These youth will have a
                        Treatment Summary/Discharge Plan (OYA 4468) completed as part
                        of their close-custody transition plan.

                3.      Medicaid-eligible youth screened as in need of a SUD assessment
                        must be referred by their JPPOs to community SUD programs
                        contracted with the Oregon Health Authority, or relevant division.

                        Non-Medicaid-eligible youth who don’t have other resources may
                        be referred to OYA-contracted SUD counselors or programs. A
                        referral for assessment will occur as soon as possible after
                        screening and as part of treatment referral.

                4.      OYA contracts with providers who conduct substance use
                        assessments must require credentials of Certified Alcohol and Drug
                        Counselor (CADC) in accordance with Oregon Health Authority
                        (OHA) rules.

        B.      Treatment Referral

                1.      JPPOs must refer youth to community treatment using ASAM
                        criteria to determine level of care needed.

                2.      JPPOs must prioritize and make a reasonable effort to refer youth
                        to culturally responsive community SUD programs that are aligned
                        with ASAM levels of care and emphasize evidence-based curricula
                        focused on risk factors associated with delinquent behavior and
                        substance abuse.

                3.      SUD treatment referrals for individualized services must include the
                        following documents and information:

                        a)      OYA 4468 Treatment Summary and Discharge Plan; and

                        b)      Specific treatment goals to be addressed (interventions,
                                services).

                4.      JPPOs may refer a youth for a reassessment or re-screening if
                        additional information becomes available.

                5.      JPPOs must ensure youth case plans reflect SUD treatment goals
                        and are reviewed and updated during regularly scheduled
                        Multidisciplinary (MDT) meetings.

Page 3 of 4 III-C-3.1 Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and Treatment in Community Settings
                                                                                      Effective: 01/29/2026
                6.      JPPOs must work closely with community treatment providers to
                        improve treatment outcomes by monitoring the youth’s relapse
                        prevention plan, case plan, and ensuring implementation of the
                        discharge summary.

V.      LOCAL OPERATING PROCEDURE or PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4 III-C-3.1 Substance Use Disorder Screening, Assessment, and Treatment in Community Settings
                                                                                      Effective: 01/29/2026
