                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Interfacility Transfer Requests
 Section – Policy Number:                     Supersedes:           Effective Date:     Date of Last
 E: Programming – 4.0                      II-E-4.0 (02/17) 04/28/2023                  Review:
                                           II-E-4.0 (05/12)
                                           II-E-4.0 (07/08)               04/28/2025
                                           II-E-4.0 (07/04)
 Related             ORS 420A.100 - 155 (Youth Correction Facilities)
 Standards           Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
 and                  Detention Facilities; Programming
 References:          OYA policy: I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to
                      Youth Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                      I-A-10.1 (Meeting LGBTQ+ Youth Needs)
                      II-A-3.1 (Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips)
                      II-E-1.0 (Notification to Parents/Guardians)
                      II-E-3.0 (Intake review Committee; Parole Review Committee)
                      II-A-1.5 (Agency Case Reviews; DOC Early Transfer Protocol)
                      II-F-1.1 (Youth Grievance Process - Facility)
                     OYA form: YA 4044 (J) (Request for Youth Transfer)
 Related             FAC II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                Approved:

 Facilities Services Assistant
 Director                                     _______________________
                                              Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff when referring mostly youth who
       identify as male for transfers between OYA facilities after their initial placements.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Close-custody facility: Any of the facilities operated by OYA, including but not
       limited to youth correction facilities (YCFs), work/study camps, and transition
       facilities.

       Multidisciplinary Team (MDT): A team of individuals who work collaboratively
       to develop and maintain a comprehensive individualized case plan that is
       culturally competent and gender-specific for each youth committed to the Oregon
       Youth Authority (OYA). The MDT is based on a core team membership
       consisting of the youth, OYA primary case manager, placement representative,
       QMHP (facility)/treatment provider (community), tribal representative (for youth
Page 1 of 5                  II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests                 Effective: 04/28/2023
       enrolled in one of Oregon’s federally recognized tribes) and the
       parents/guardians. Additional team members are identified by the core team
       based on the youth’s Risk Needs Assessment, identified criminogenic needs and
       placement.

       Population Management Committee : A committee that coordinates youth
       placements, treatment opportunities, and provides quality assurance for lengths-
       of-stay in OYA close-custody facilities. The committee is chaired by the Facility
       Services chief of operations, and includes the chief of parole and probation, and
       representation from the Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations, Facility
       Services, and Treatment Services.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA places youth in its facilities based on each youth's MDT recommendations,
       with consideration given to proximity to family resources, gender identity, cultural,
       treatment and security needs as outlined in II-E-3.0 Intake review Committee;
       Parole Review Committee. This policy addresses the interfacility transfer
       process to allow youth to move along OYA’s continuum of care to achieve case
       plan goals in the most appropriate environments.

       When initiating or responding to requests for youth transfer between OYA close-
       custody facilities that house mostly youth who identify as male, staff must
       consider family and regional preference, youth’s current level of attaching and
       belonging to their current environment and the effort/time it will take to attach and
       belong if transferred, the MDT recommendations; and available data,
       assessments, and youth reformation tools that can meaningfully inform decision
       making. Initial placement and subsequent transfer of youth who identify as
       transgender, gender diverse, gender fluid or intersex may involve the OYA
       Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression Committee (SOGIEC), in
       accordance with OYA policy I-A-10.1 Meeting LGBTQ+ Youth Needs.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Requests for youth transfer

              The youth’s Multidisciplinary Team (MDT) will make all requests for
              transfer and allow or deny the transfer based on what would best benefit
              the youth within the interests of family, culture, treatment, medical and
              mental health, safety, and order, and make recommendations to the
              superintendent/camp director.

              Different types of facility transfers are listed below.

              1.     Programming needs

                     A youth who has presenting issues which cannot be appropriately
                     addressed at the youth's current placement may require a program
                     transfer. Presenting issues may include major mental health,
                     behavioral or security concerns.

              2.     Program opportunity
Page 2 of 5                II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests      Effective: 04/28/2023
                    A youth may transfer to another facility to participate in educational,
                    vocational or treatment opportunities not available at the youth's
                    current placement.

              3.    Medical or mental health specific

                    A youth may be transferred to another facility to receive specific
                    medical or mental health services not available at the youth's
                    current placement.

       B.     Transfer request process

              1.    After MDT approval, staff will submit a Request for Youth Transfer
                    (YA 4044) to the facility’s superintendent or camp director.

              2.    Certain youth may require an executive-level review prior to any
                    change in location.

                    Refer to OYA policy II-A-1.5 Agency Case Reviews and DOC Early
                    Transfer Protocol regarding this review process.

              3.    The processes for mental health program and transition facility
                    transfers are addressed in facilitywide procedure FAC II-E-4.0
                    Interfacility Transfers.

              4.    Medical-specific transfers

                    a)     The superintendent/camp director or designee will contact
                           onsite facility Health Services staff and the OYA medical
                           director for review and approval of the proposed transfer.

                           The OYA medical director may contact the
                           superintendent/camp director to notify them of a need to
                           transfer a youth from a primarily male facility for
                           emergent/required medical treatment based on medical
                           information received.

                    b)     The program director who oversees primarily male youth
                           intake and population management must coordinate all
                           youth transfers approved by the OYA medical director for
                           emergent/required medical treatment.

              5.    The superintendent/camp director or designee will contact the
                    Population Management Committee to review the YA 4044.

              6.    The Population Management Committee will review the below-
                    listed information to determine the appropriateness of the youth's
                    transfer and approve or deny the transfer in writing:

                    a)     Family and regional location;



Page 3 of 5              II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests       Effective: 04/28/2023
                    b)       Current level and ability to attach and belong in current
                             environment;

                    c)       Cultural needs;

                    d)       Medical and mental health needs;

                    e)       Language and available interpretive services;

                    f)       Unit criteria, milieu and best-fit match;

                    g)       Facility security and order concerns;

                    h)       Security threat groups and possible conflicts;

                    i)       PREA issues and alerts (see OYA policy I-A-10.0
                             Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                             Abuse and Sexual Harassment);

                    j)       Educational and vocational availability;

                    k)       Unit screening requirements; and

                    l)       Placement availability.

       C.     Transfer request approval or denial process

              1.    Approval

                    If a transfer request is approved, the following must occur.

                    a)       The Population Management Committee must notify the
                             sending and receiving superintendents/camp directors in
                             writing of when the transfer may happen. The youth will be
                             placed into a program vacancy in sequential order based on
                             the youth's transfer request date.

                    b)       The sending facility's superintendent/camp director or
                             designee will -

                             (1)    Open a JJIS Service Referral reflecting the transfer
                                    approval date and approximate transfer date; and

                             (2)    Update the youth's case plan.

              2.    Denial

                    If a transfer request is denied, the Population Management
                    Committee must provide a written rationale to the requesting
                    facility's superintendent/camp director (e.g., program or facility
                    capacity, waiting lists, youth's behavior history).


Page 4 of 5              II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests        Effective: 04/28/2023
              3.    Conflict resolution

                    a)     Staff disagreements with the Population Management
                           Committee’s written decision will be resolved through the
                           Agency Case Review process. (See OYA policy II-A-1.5
                           Agency Case Reviews; DOC Return Protocol).

                    b)     If a youth disagrees with any transfer decision, staff may
                           direct the youth to the grievance process described in OYA
                           policy II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO

VI.    FACILITYWIDE PROCEDURE REQUIRED: YES

       A.     A facilitywide procedure must delineate the staff process for requesting a
              youth transfer to one of the specialized housing environments within the
              OYA close-custody system.

       B.     The process must include collaboration between subject matter experts in
              the program area the youth is being referred for transfer to and the
              youth’s treatment team.




Page 5 of 5              II-E-4.0 Interfacility Transfer Requests     Effective: 04/28/2023
