                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                        Part III – Community Services (Youth)

 Subject:
 Youth Personal Property in the Community
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:          Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                                                                     Review:
 A: General Administration - 9.0           III-A-9.0 (5/19) 10/26/2023
                                                                           10/26/2025
                                           III-A-9.0 (2/17)
                                           III-A-9.0 (9/12)
 Related             OYA policy: III-A-4.0 Searches of Youth and Areas; Processing
 Standards            Contraband or Evidence in Community Placements
 and                  III-A.6.0 Field Office Safety and Security Standards
 References:
 Related             Local field office protocols
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                    ________________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes standards for OYA field staff regarding youth personal
       property inventory, storage, and return while a youth is under supervision in the
       community.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Personal property: Any item belonging to a youth that can be moved, including,
       but not limited to, jewelry, money, radio, stereo, non-state-issued clothing,
       posters, knickknacks, and photographs. Personal property does not include
       items purchased or provided for a youth at OYA's, a substitute care provider's, or
       other government agency's expense.

       Substitute care: Residential placements in the community that provide 24-hour-
       a-day care or treatment, excluding a relative’s home. Such placements include,
       but are not limited to, foster care, proctor care, or contracted residential treatment
       programs.

III.   POLICY:

       Youth may have personal property while in a substitute care placement. The type
       of personal property may be determined by the substitute care provider. OYA is
       not responsible for the damage, theft or loss of a youth’s personal property while
       the youth is in a substitute care placement. OYA may place limits on the quantity
Page 1 of 5          III-A-9.0 Youth Personal Property in the Community            Effective: 10/26/2023
       of personal property a youth may retain while in a substitute care placement.
       OYA establishes appropriate controls for the management of youth personal
       property held by OYA to minimize damage, theft or loss of items.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. OYA staff must demonstrate respect in handling and transporting
       youth property.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Youth Property in Substitute Care Placements

              1.     Contract administrators must ensure substitute care providers have
                     policies and procedures to identify:

                     a)      Allowable youth personal property; and

                     b)      Personal property tracking, inventory, and storage.

              2.     Staff must work with substitute care providers to ensure youth
                     understand limitations on personal property while in a substitute
                     care placement.

                     a)      OYA must provide youth with designated storage devices for
                             personal property, unless the youth wants to use their own
                             equivalent storage options. The storage devices (travel kit)
                             include two duffle bags, one toiletry bag, and one plastic
                             tote. The quantity of youth personal property must fit in the
                             storage device for ease of transport.

                     b)      Personal property storage beyond these limits must be
                             approved by the youth’s juvenile parole/probation officer
                             (JPPO).

                     c)      OYA staff must not use trash bags to transport or store youth
                             property.

              3.     Property Search/Inventory Upon Youth Placement/Return

                     Staff must not allow youth to have access to their property,
                     including anything a youth is carrying (e.g., in a pocket or
                     backpack), until a contraband search has been completed.

                     a)      Staff must search the youth’s property for contraband items
                             before leaving the youth’s property at a substitute care
                             program.


Page 2 of 5         III-A-9.0 Youth Personal Property in the Community   Effective: 10/26/2023
                    b)      Staff must follow OYA policy III-A-4.0 (sections G and H)
                            when searching, documenting, and confiscating any
                            contraband items found during the search.

              4.    Returning Property Left at Substitute Care Programs

                    a)      Staff must ensure every possible effort is made to return
                            personal property to a youth when the youth leaves a
                            substitute care placement.

                    b)      Staff must work with the substitute care provider to ensure
                            personal property is returned to the youth’s family when the
                            youth is not available to receive property.

                    c)      Staff must pick up a youth’s property from the substitute care
                            provider within 30 days of the youth exiting the program, if a
                            program is unable to return the property directly to the youth
                            or youth’s family.

                    d)      OYA may receive a personal property item inventory from
                            the provider. The inventory must be retained in the youth’s
                            case file.

       B.     Youth Personal Property Storage

              1.    OYA field offices have limited storage capacity for youth personal
                    property collected from substitute care providers. OYA may store
                    youth personal property for a reasonable amount of time based on
                    available space.

              2.    Staff must search and inventory youth personal property before
                    placing it in storage at an OYA field office.

              3.    Stored items must be retained in OYA-designated storage devices
                    (travel kits) and clearly labeled with the youth’s name.

              4.    Local field offices must have a local written protocol about youth
                    personal property tracking and storage.

       C.     Disposition of unclaimed property

              1.    Staff must notify a youth and the youth’s family, in writing via
                    standard mail and email (when available), when resource
                    limitations no longer allow OYA or a substitute care provider to
                    store the youth’s property. The notice must include the following:

                    a)      A copy of the written record listing the personal property in
                            OYA storage;

                    b)      A request for the youth or youth’s family to contact the local
                            field office to claim the property; and


Page 3 of 5        III-A-9.0 Youth Personal Property in the Community    Effective: 10/26/2023
                     c)     A statement that the youth’s property will be donated to a
                            local charity or destroyed if not claimed within 30 days.

                     d)     Donation or destruction of spiritual or religious items.

                            (1)     Staff must contact the OYA Native American services
                                    coordinator and or the OYA Native American tribal
                                    liaison for Native American religious, cultural or
                                    spiritual items to properly handle these items. Native
                                    American practices do not allow for destruction or
                                    donation of sacred items.

                            (2)     Staff must contact an OYA religious services
                                    coordinator for proper handling of any other spiritual
                                    or religious items prior to the donation or destruction
                                    of the items.

              2.     Staff must retain a copy of the written notice in the youth’s file,
                     along with a final property disposition notation.

       D.     Lost, Stolen, or Damaged Personal Property

              Staff must refer a youth to the following process if the youth believes loss
              of personal property is a result of OYA negligence.

              1.     The youth may file a claim letter with the Oregon Department of
                     Administrative Services, Risk Management Division (RMD); 1225
                     Ferry St SE, U105; Salem OR 97301.

                     The letter must include:

                     a)     The youth’s name and location;

                     b)     The date of loss (within 90 days of loss or knowledge of
                            loss);

                     c)     Specifics regarding the loss (what, where, how);

                     d)     The name(s) of staff witness(es) and work phone number(s);

                     e)     The replacement value (attach receipts if possible); and

                     f)     An explanation detailing how the state is liable for the loss.

              2.     The letter may be submitted by:

                     a)     A youth’s parent/guardian; or

                     b)     A youth who is over age 18, emancipated, or whose
                            parent/guardian is unavailable. The youth must explain why
                            the youth is submitting the claim instead of the
                            parent/guardian.

Page 4 of 5        III-A-9.0 Youth Personal Property in the Community     Effective: 10/26/2023
V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

       Each field office must have a local protocol to address the following:

       A.     Where youth personal property items will be stored;

       B.     How to verify items have been searched prior to storage;

       C.     The maximum length of time items may be stored; and

       D.     A process for tracking stored items.




Page 5 of 5        III-A-9.0 Youth Personal Property in the Community   Effective: 10/26/2023
