                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject
 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
 A: Security – 3.1                       II-A-3.1 (04/23) 01/29/2026     Review/Revision:
                                         II-A-3.1 (12/12)                None
                                         II-A-3.1 (07/11)
                                         II-A-3.1 (05/05)
                                         II-A-3.1 (10/05)
 Related           Juvenile Justice Delinquency and Prevention Act (2018), Section
 Standards           223
 and               OAR 416-490 (Use of Time-out, Room-lock Other, Isolation,
 References:         Safety Programs, Physical Intervention and Restraint in OYA
                     Facilities)
                   OAR 125-155-0420 & 0430 (Passengers & Passenger Summary)
                   Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and
                     Detention Facilities; Security, Order
                   American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
                     Correctional Facilities; 5-JCF-2A-18 (Transportation of Juveniles)
                   OYA policy:
                     I-C-2.0 (Use of State-owned Vehicles)
                     I-C-9.0 (Mobile Communication Devices (Cell Phones) and Other
                     Mobile Data Storage Devices)
                     II-A-1.2 (Preserving Chain of Evidence)
                     II-A-1.4 (Apprehension of Escaped Youth from OYA Facilities)
                     II-A-2.0 (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA Facilities)
                     II-A-3.0 (Interactive Supervision of Youth)
                     II-B-1.1 (Physical Intervention in OYA Facilities)
                    OYA forms: YA 4005 (Facility Secure Transport Authorization)
                   Attachment A: Secure Transport Youth-Staff Seating Matrix
                   Attachment B: Non-secure Escorted Trip Youth-Staff Seating
                     Matrix
 Related           Facilitywide Procedure: FAC I-E-4.0 (Youth Incident Reports)
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                           Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director
                                             ________________________
                                             Mike Tessean, Director




Page 1 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips            Effective: 01/29/2026
I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides facility staff standards when transporting or escorting an
       OYA facility youth outside of an OYA facility.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Escorted Trip: The escorting of an OYA youth from an OYA facility, community
       program, or community placement to a destination within the community, and
       returning the youth to that same placement.

       Secure transport: A transport of a youth who is in restraints.

       Secure vehicle: A vehicle equipped with security screens that separate a youth
       from staff. The vehicle may have tinted windows to prevent visual contact with
       the community.

       Transfer: A movement and reassignment of supervision of a youth between
       community supervision and close custody or detention, OYA and DOC, or
       between OYA facilities.

       Transport restraints: Restraints used to restrain youth during secure transports
       or trips. For compliant youth, security restraints include handcuffs, leg irons, belly
       chains, and transport belts. For non-compliant youth, soft arm and ankle
       restraints and back straps may be used in addition to the security restraints listed
       above.

       Youth: A person in the legal and physical custody of the OYA either in an OYA
       facility or placed in the community under supervision, or a person in the legal
       custody of the Department of Corrections and the physical custody of OYA in an
       OYA facility.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. The use of secure transportation may be triggering for any youth,
       particularly youth of color, and staff must take action to reduce any potential
       harm during secure transports.

       Youth in OYA facilities may require transportation into the community for secure
       transports, transfers, medical trips, and escorted trips. Safety of staff, youth, and
       the public is the prime consideration when planning youth movement into the
       community. Any movement of youth can be unpredictable, and emergency
       situations may occur. To mitigate emergencies, OYA policy requires youth
       movement into the community be conducted in a planned manner conforming
       with OYA standards and policy. Supervision of youth during transports and
Page 2 of 13   II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips    Effective: 01/29/2026
       escorted trips must also comply with OYA policy II-A-3.0 Interactive Supervision
       of Youth and facility local operating protocols.

       These standards are applicable to all youth in the physical custody of OYA who
       are placed in a close-custody facility.

       Transporting passengers other than youth must follow state guidelines set forth
       in the Department of Administrative Services (DAS) rule OAR 125-155-0420.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Staff must complete youth transport and escort training provided by the
               OYA Training Academy before transporting or escorting youth or placing
               youth in restraints in preparation for transport.

       B.      OYA Facility Trip Preparation

               1.     Youth Correctional Facilities (YCF)

                      a)       The superintendent or designee must authorize the trip by
                               reviewing all pertinent information regarding the youth and
                               the planned trip and sign a YA 4005 (Facility Secure
                               Transport Authorization).

                      b)       The escorting staff must possess a completed YA 4005. Any
                               deviations from the trip conditions must be authorized by the
                               superintendent or designee.

               2.     Youth Transition Facilities

                      The escorting staff must possess a completed YA 4005, a youth
                      face sheet for all youth on the trip, and a work crew assignment
                      authorization or community activity authorization. Any deviations
                      from the trip conditions must be authorized by the facility
                      superintendent or camp director.

               3.     OYA Facility Medical Trips:

                      a)       Escorting staff may call ahead to the destination to confirm
                               appointment and review any special security requirements
                               with the hospital or office.

                      b)       Health Services staff must ensure any necessary medical
                               documentation is available to the escorting staff prior to the
                               scheduled medical trip.

                      c)       If a youth is being transported for the purpose of an MRI, the
                               escorting staff must carry plastic flex cuffs and a pair of wire
                               cutting pliers in order to secure and unsecure the youth as
                               medically required during the MRI.

Page 3 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips     Effective: 01/29/2026
                      d)       The youth must be transported in regular youth attire.

               4.     For security reasons, staff must take precautions to minimize youth
                      knowledge of pending trips if possible. Staff will ensure the youth
                      does not make any outside phone calls or receive visitors prior to a
                      pending trip.

               5.     Staff must search the transport vehicle for prohibited items prior to
                      placing youth in the vehicle.

               6.     Escorting staff must carry approved identification for each escorted
                      youth in case of emergency or escape.

               7.     Prior to departure, the escorting staff must review with the youth the
                      behavioral conduct expected while on the trip.

               8.     When more than one escorting staff is assigned to a secure
                      transport trip, all restraints applied to the youth must be double-
                      checked by a second escort staff for proper application and locking.

               9.     All escorted youth must be frisk searched before departure and
                      upon return to the facility. Searches will be conducted according to
                      OYA policy II-A-2.0 (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA
                      Facilities).

       C.      OYA Facility Transfer Preparation

               1.     The facility that a youth is being transferred from is responsible for
                      ensuring that the youth, the youth’s case file, medical file, and
                      personal property are held at the receiving and discharge area of
                      the facility prior to the scheduled time of transfer.

               2.     Staff may allow as many bags or boxes of property as space allows
                      in the vehicle to be transported during the transfer. Any excess
                      property must be tagged and stored at the sending facility until such
                      time cargo space is available to transport the property to the
                      youth’s new location.

               3.     Staff must search the transfer vehicle for prohibited items prior to
                      placing youth in the vehicle.

               4.     Staff must frisk search all escorted youth prior to the transfer.
                      Searches will be conducted according to OYA policy II-A-2.0
                      (Searches of Youth and Youth Property in OYA Facilities).

               5.     Staff must ensure all escorted youth are dressed in yellow
                      coveralls, appropriate undergarments, socks, and sandals.

               6.     When more than one escort staff is assigned to a secure transport
                      transfer, all restraints applied to the youth must be double-checked
                      by a second staff for proper application and locking.
Page 4 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips    Effective: 01/29/2026
               7.     Staff must apply restraints at the same level on all youth in the
                      transport vehicle.

               8.     The escorting staff in charge of the transfer must:

                      a)       Determine the youth seating in the transport vehicle;

                      b)       Immediately report any unusual incidents to their supervisor;

                      c)       Ensure they have the proper identification for each youth
                               being transferred and the youth is properly identified prior to
                               departure; and

                      d)       Have the appropriate files (youth case file and medical file)
                               prior to departure from the facility.

       D.      Transport Vehicles

               1.     Staff will adhere to Department of Motor Vehicle rules, including the
                      use of seatbelts. Youth will not, at any time, be left in an unattended
                      vehicle, or handcuffed or otherwise secured to any part of a vehicle
                      or fixed object.

               2.     Staff must not transport youth in their personal vehicles.

               3.     Staff must ensure the vehicle is safe and free from prohibited items
                      before and after each transport, using search methods approved by
                      the Training Academy.

               4.     Staff must ensure the vehicle is safely operable prior to transporting
                      youth by checking functionality of vehicle headlights, turn signals,
                      hazard lights, taillights, tires, and fluid levels (oil, wiper fluid, etc.).

               5.     Transport vehicles may be secure or non-secure, depending on
                      safety, security, and the purpose of the transport.

                      a)       A secure vehicle is preferred for secure transports.

                      b)       If a secure vehicle is not available for a secure transport, a
                               minimum of two staff must escort the youth in the unsecure
                               vehicle.

       E.      Facility Youth Conduct

               Unless authorized by the living unit manager or designated staff, staff
               must ensure youth do not:

               1.     Make telephone calls upon notification of a trip or transfer;

               2.     Take or receive property;
Page 5 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips       Effective: 01/29/2026
               3.     Enter into any contract or expenditure of funds; or

               4.     Have social visits during the transfer or trip.

       F.      Escorting Staff Duties

               1.     The escorting staff must possess a current, valid Oregon driver
                      license or adequate DMV classification to drive the transport
                      vehicle.

               2.     The escorting staff must wear a current OYA identification badge.

               3.     The escorting staff must be alert and vigilant throughout the trip.
                      Staff must not engage in any distracting activities such as reading
                      newspapers, books, magazines, or use of electronic devices.
                      Mobile phone use must be for work-related communication only.

               4.     The escorting staff’s primary obligations are to prevent escape and
                      protect the youth and the public. Staff will maintain a position
                      enabling the viewing of the youth and blocking avenues of escape
                      when possible. Escorting staff must have youth under their full
                      control and responsibility.

               5.     Only travel to and from the authorized destination is permitted
                      unless previously authorized by the living unit manager or
                      designated staff.

               6.     Staff social visits are not permitted during transport trips or
                      transfers.

               7.     Restraints may be removed by the escorting staff only as required
                      for authorized examination as outlined on the YA 4005.

                      a)       If the escorting staff determines security concerns override
                               the removal of restraints, the authorizing manager must be
                               consulted for instruction prior to the removal of restraints.

                      b)       During medical emergencies, restraints may be removed on
                               direction of the medical provider.

               8.     Staff are not permitted to smoke during transfers or trips.

       G.      Secure Transports

               1.     The following types of youth transfers require secure transports:

                      a)       Between youth correctional facilities;

                      b)       From a transition facility to a youth correctional facility for
                               higher security reasons (e.g., behavior violations);
Page 6 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips       Effective: 01/29/2026
                      c)       From a community placement to a detention facility or youth
                               correctional facility; and

                      d)       To or from an Oregon Department of Corrections facility.

               2.     Any escorted trip from a youth correctional facility must be a secure
                      transport (e.g., medical appointment, funeral, bedside visit).

               3.     Security restraints

                      Security restraints must be used during secure transports. Security
                      restraints are designed to restrict and control individual movement
                      for the purpose of preventing escapes during transports or escorts.

                      Only approved restraint devices described in OYA policy II-B-1.1
                      (Physical Intervention in OYA Facilities) may be used by staff when
                      transporting youth.

                      a)       For compliant youth, security restraints include handcuffs,
                               leg irons and transport belts.

                      b)       For non-compliant youth, soft arm and ankle restraints and
                               back straps may be used in addition to the security
                               restraints.

                      c)       Mesh hood/spit socks or spit shields may only be used
                               when a youth spits or threatens to spit.

                      d)       All restraint devices will be used as the manufacturer
                               intended and in adherence to Training Academy standards.

                      e)       Approved non-metallic (soft) restraint devices may be used
                               for some types of medical transports.

                               Any restraints must be removed when a medical
                               professional who is responsible for the care of the youth
                               determines that removal is medically necessary.

                      f)       Staff must consult with Health Services staff prior to applying
                               restraints on pregnant youth. Restraints used on pregnant
                               youth must not put the pregnant youth or the fetus at risk.

                               (1)    Restraints may not be used on known pregnant youth
                                      in active labor or postpartum recovery.

                               (2)    Waist restraints and leg irons may not be used on
                                      known pregnant youth in the second or third trimester.

                               (3)    Wrist restraints may not be placed behind the back of
                                      a known pregnant youth.
Page 7 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips     Effective: 01/29/2026
                               (4)    Wrist restraints may not be used on a known pregnant
                                      youth in the second or third trimester unless there is
                                      credible, reasonable information that the youth poses
                                      an escape risk or serious threat to self or others. The
                                      supervisor must approve the use of restraints in this
                                      situation.

                               (5)     A pregnant youth must never be placed in a facedown
                                       position.

                               (6)     Any restraints must be removed when a medical
                                       professional who is responsible for the care of the
                                       pregnant youth determines that removal is medically
                                       necessary.

               4.     Staff-to-youth Ratio

                      The Youth-Staff Seating Matrix (Attachment A) sets the standard
                      for minimal staff-to-youth ratios depending on the vehicle security.

                      a)       Secure vehicle: One staff may transport up to two youth.
                               At least two staff are required to transport three or more
                               youth.

                      b)       Non-secure vehicle: At least two staff are required to
                               transport one or more youth.

                      c)       Any deviation from the matrix must be determined by the
                               superintendent/camp director or designated manager based
                               on safety and security issues related to the individual
                               transport, such as:

                               (1)     The youth’s mental or emotional state;

                               (2)     The youth’s risk to re-offend;

                               (3)     The youth’s escape/run or assault history;

                               (4)     The youth’s behavior history;

                               (5)     The purpose of the transport; and
                               (6)     The planned length of the transport.

               5.     Rest stops and transfer of custody will be made at secure facilities
                      at reasonable intervals, based on the length of the transport and
                      the needs of the youth.

                      a)       Secure facilities include other close-custody facilities or local
                               state/county facilities/offices.


Page 8 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips      Effective: 01/29/2026
                      b)       Exceptions to allow transfer of custody at non-secure
                               settings may be granted by the superintendent/camp director
                               or designated staff when:

                               (1)     The transfer location is planned in advance and is a
                                       controlled area with minimal exposure to the public;
                                       and

                               (2)     Such transfer is considered to be a minimal risk to
                                       public safety.

               6.     Staff must carry a state-issued cell phone/mobile communication
                      device for transport business use during the transport.

                      Carrying a personal cell phone/mobile communication device is not
                      authorized during a youth transport, except when overnight travel or
                      air travel is required.

               7.     Following the transport, staff must:

                      a)       Complete a YA 4005 documenting specific information about
                               the transport, including starting and stopping time, and any
                               unusual incidents that occurred. A copy of the YA 4005 must
                               be retained in the youth’s case file; and

                      b)       Complete a Youth Incident Report (YIR), if necessary.

       H.      Secure Commercial Transports

               1.     Staff transporting youth by air must establish any security
                      limitations or requirements by contacting airport security and the
                      airline selected at least two hours prior to the flight departure time.

               2.     The majority of airports and airlines insist the escorted youth be in
                      restraints at all times. If assistance is needed, the escorting staff
                      must contact the airport security or local authorities.

               3.     The aircraft crew must be advised through airport security officials
                      of the transport situation and that restraint equipment is being used
                      for the escort.

               4.     Advance requirements must be made for appropriate security at the
                      landing site and for ground transportation.

       I.      Non-secure Transports and Escorted Trips

               1.     The following types of youth transfers may be non-secure
                      transports:

                      a)       Between transition facilities; and

Page 9 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips     Effective: 01/29/2026
                       b)       To a transition facility or community placement.

                2.     The following types of youth escorted trips may be non-secure:

                       a)       To and from community job assignments or work crews;

                       b)       To and from appointments within the community from
                                transition facilities;

                       c)       To and from community activities; and

                       d)       To and from home visits.

                3.     OYA staff must escort youth during any escorted trip or transfer.
                       Contracted persons may not escort youth offsite.

                4.     Staff-to-youth Ratio

                       The Non-secure Escorted Trip Youth-Staff Seating Matrix
                       (Attachment B) sets the standard for minimal staff-to-youth ratios
                       for non-secure transports and escorted trips.

                       a)       One staff may transport/escort up to five youth.

                       b)       At least two staff must transport/escort six or more youth.

                       c)       The superintendent/camp director or designated staff may
                                authorize exceptions to this standard based on a risk
                                assessment of the following:

                                (1)     The youth’s mental or emotional state;

                                (2)     The youth’s risk to re-offend;

                                (3)     The youth’s escape/run or assault history;

                                (4)     The youth’s behavior history;

                                (5)     The purpose of the transport; and

                                (6)     The planned length of the transport.

                5.     Rest stops must be conducted at reasonable intervals, based on
                       the length of the transport and the needs of the staff and youth.

                6.     Following the transport, staff must:

                       a)       Complete a YA 4005 or JJIS movement, if appropriate; and




Page 10 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips      Effective: 01/29/2026
                       b)       Immediately notify appropriate personnel of any youth
                                misconduct that occurred during the transport. If necessary,
                                staff will complete a YIR.

       J.       Unusual Incidents

                1.     The escorting staff must radio/phone the facility as soon as
                       possible for notification and instructions for any unusual incident.

                2.     The escorting staff must complete a YIR if necessary.

                3.     When any youth misconduct occurs, the escorting staff may
                       immediately discontinue the trip/transfer and return the youth to the
                       facility or community placement.

                4.     If a youth escapes or is separated from the escorting staff, staff
                       must notify the Oregon State Police with a request for assistance,
                       and notify the facility’s officer-of-the-day.

                5.     If a transport vehicle breaks down, the escorting staff and youth
                       must remain with the vehicle until help arrives.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 11 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips   Effective: 01/29/2026
Attachment A: Secure Transport Youth-Staff Seating Matrix

OYA Standard: Safety of staff, youth, and the public is the prime consideration.
Placement of youth and staff within the vehicle is affected by two variables: Number of
youth being transported, and the availability of a secure vehicle.

Secure vehicle:




One youth (Y)
                         S                      Two youth (Y)            S
One staff (S)                                   One staff (S)


                                  Y                                      Y Y

Two youth (Y)            S         S             Three youth (Y)         S        S
Two staff (S)                                    Two staff (S)


                         Y Y                                             YYY

Unsecure vehicle


 One or more
 youth (Y)
                         S         S
 Two staff (S)

                                  Y
Secure van:


 Two or more
 youth (Y)               S S
 Two staff (S)
                         Y Y
                         Y Y

Page 12 of 13    II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips       Effective: 01/29/2026
Attachment B: Non-secure Escorted Trip Youth-Staff Seating Matrix

OYA Standard: Safety of staff, youth, and the public is the prime consideration. Vehicle
may be secure or unsecured.

Unsecure vehicle:




    One youth (Y)
                                         S
    One staff (S)

                                                  Y

   Two youth (Y)                         S
   One staff (S)

                                         Y Y



   Up to five youth (Y)                  S
   One staff (S)                         Y Y
                                         Y Y
                                         Y


   More than five youth (Y)              S S
   Two staff (S)
                                         Y Y
                                         Y Y
                                         Y Y

Page 13 of 13   II-A-3.1 Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips   Effective: 01/29/2026
