                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Parole Revocation
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:     Effective Date:   Date of Last
 A: General Administration – 13.0 I-A-13.0 (10/22) 01/29/2026 Review/Revision:
                                     I-A-13.0 (09/16)                None
                                     II-F-2.3 (10/05)
                                     II-F-2.3 (12/02)
 Related         ORS 420.017 Diversion Plan
 Standards       ORS 420.045 Parole; discharge; revocation of parole
 and             ORS 420.905 through ORS 420.915 (Apprehension of escaped,
 References:      absent or paroled adjudicated youth)
                 ORS 420A.115 Parole of adjudicated youth
                 ORS 420A.120 Suspension of parole or conditional release;
                  rules
                 OAR 416, Division 300 Parole and Revocations
                 OYA policy: III-D-1.1 Juvenile Parole-Probation Agreement
                  III-A-2.1 Youth Legal Assistance - Community
                  II-F-3.6 Legal Materials and Assistance - Facility
                  II-F-1.1 Youth Grievance Process - Facility
                 JJIS forms: OYA 3001 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement
                  OYA 3021 Notice of Formal Parole Revocation Hearing
                  OYA 3022 Formal Parole Revocation Hearing Report
                  OYA 3023 Order of Revocation of Parole
                  OYA 3024 Notice of Preliminary Parole Revocation Hearing
                  OYA 3025 Notice of Right to Formal Parole Revocation Hearing
                  OYA 3026 Hearing Officer's Report on Preliminary Hearing
                  OYA 4040 YCF Request for Warrant
 Related         None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner                        Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                  ________________________
                                           Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides general guidelines for the parole revocation process of youth
       on OYA parole.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS

       Due process: The process to which a youth is entitled when the youth’s
       conditional release on parole is at risk of being revoked.
Page 1 of 7                   I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                Effective: 01/29/2026
       The minimum requirements for due process are:
       (1) Written notice to the youth of the alleged violations of parole;
       (2) Disclosure of evidence against the youth;
       (3) An opportunity to be heard in person and to present witnesses and
           documentary evidence;
       (4) A right to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses (unless a hearing
           officer specifically finds good cause for not allowing confrontation);
       (5) A neutral and detached hearing officer; and
       (6) A written statement by the hearing officer as to the evidence relied on and
           reasons for revoking parole.

       Formal parole revocation hearing: A hearing to determine whether parole
       should be revoked that is conducted after a preliminary parole revocation hearing
       has resulted in a recommendation for revocation or another sanction.

       Formal parole revocation hearing committee: A committee comprised of three
       OYA staff selected by the superintendent who did not charge the youth with the
       parole violation.

       Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): A statewide integrated electronic
       information system designed, developed, and implemented to support a
       continuum of services and shared responsibility among all members of the
       juvenile justice community. In a collaborative partnership between the Oregon
       Youth Authority (OYA) and Oregon's county juvenile departments, JJIS is
       administered by the State of Oregon through OYA.

       Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement: A written agreement between a
       paroling youth and the Oregon Youth Authority that establishes the youth’s
       conditions of parole.

       Parole: The conditional release of a youth from a youth correctional facility
       subject to the director’s authority to revoke parole.

       Parole Revocation: An act of rescinding a youth’s parole.

       Preliminary parole revocation hearing: An administrative hearing to determine
       if probable cause exists to believe a youth has violated one or more conditions of
       parole, and it is in the best interests of the youth and the community to revoke
       parole.

       Preliminary parole revocation hearing officer: A person designated by the
       juvenile department who is someone other than the person(s) bringing
       allegations against the youth that may result in the youth’s parole revocation.

       Youth Correctional Facility (YCF): An OYA facility used for the confinement of
       youth placed in the legal or physical custody of OYA (includes secure facilities
       and transition camps).




Page 2 of 7                 I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                Effective: 01/29/2026
III.   POLICY

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, OYA plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic
       inequities it perpetuates. Staff must be aware of and address any potential bias
       they may have when deciding whether to recommend revocation of a youth’s
       parole.

       The OYA director or designee has the authority to conditionally release on parole
       a youth who is committed to the legal custody of OYA and placed in a youth
       correctional facility. Youth paroled into the community are not restored full
       freedom and must follow prescribed conditions documented in a written parole
       agreement (OYA 3001 Juvenile Parole/Probation Agreement).

       A youth’s failure to comply with the conditions of parole may result in a
       recommendation of sanctions, including a parole revocation. OYA has
       established its parole and parole revocation standards and procedures in OAR
       416, division 300, consistent with due process and other law requirements.

       The following are general standards for OYA staff to follow when initiating a
       youth’s parole revocation process.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS

       A.     Request for Parole Revocation

              1.    Staff must base the request to revoke parole on verifiable facts that
                    clearly demonstrate:

                    a)     A serious violation of one or more of the youth’s parole
                           agreement;

                    b)     No less restrictive placement options or sanctions are
                           available or appropriate to address the youth’s violations;
                           and

                    c)     Continuation of the current placement is not in the best
                           interest of the youth or the community.

              2.    The JPPO must complete a Notice of Preliminary Parole
                    Revocation Hearing (YA 3024) and outline the verifiable facts that
                    support a youth’s alleged violation(s) or why continued placement
                    in the community is not in the youth’s or community’s best interest.

              3.    The JPPO’s field supervisor must review the written report (YA
                    3024) and determine if the request for revocation is warranted or if
                    alternative actions may be taken.
Page 3 of 7                I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                 Effective: 01/29/2026
              4.    If the request for revocation is authorized by the field supervisor,
                    the JPPO must schedule a preliminary revocation hearing with the
                    preliminary parole revocation hearing officer designated by the
                    juvenile department.

              5.    Community Services administration must develop and maintain
                    preliminary parole revocation hearing officer training to be shared
                    with juvenile departments upon request.

       B.     Preliminary Parole Revocation Hearing

              1.    The JPPO must give the youth and the youth’s parent/guardian (if
                    applicable) written notice of the intent to revoke parole prior to the
                    preliminary revocation hearing. This notice must be in compliance
                    with OAR 416-300-0050.

              2.    Prior to the preliminary parole revocation hearing, the JPPO must
                    provide the preliminary parole revocation hearing officer and the
                    youth all documentary evidence that will be used to support the
                    parole revocation recommendation.

              3.    The preliminary parole revocation hearing officer will conduct a
                    preliminary revocation hearing in accordance with OAR 416-300-
                    0050 to determine if probable cause exists to believe the youth
                    violated parole.

              4.    Sanctions other than parole revocation

                    If it is determined that probable cause exists to believe the youth
                    violated parole and the JPPO and the preliminary parole revocation
                    hearing officer agree to impose a sanction other than parole
                    revocation, the hearing officer may impose such a sanction.

                    If the JPPO and the preliminary parole revocation hearing officer do
                    not agree on a sanction, the preliminary parole revocation hearing
                    officer must recommend a parole revocation.

              5.    Parole revocation recommended

                    a)     When the preliminary revocation hearing officer determines
                           probable cause exists to believe the youth violated parole
                           and the recommendation is to revoke a youth’s parole, the
                           field supervisor or designee must notify the appropriate
                           intake facility of the youth’s name, estimated date and time
                           of arrival and any known behavior or health concerns.

                    b)     The JPPO handling the revocation must arrange
                           transportation for the youth's return to the appropriate facility.



Page 4 of 7                I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                  Effective: 01/29/2026
                            The JPPO must ensure the following documents are
                            delivered to appropriate staff at the receiving facility:

                            1)     Hearing officer’s report;

                            2)     Notice of Preliminary Hearing (YA 3024);

                            3)     Notice of Right to Formal Parole Revocation Hearing
                                   (YA 3025); and

                            4)     Supporting documents.

                     c)     The JPPO must complete a Revocation Referral
                            Assessment in JJIS within 24 hours of the youth’s return to a
                            facility.

       C.     Formal Parole Revocation Hearing Youth Waiver

              Any youth revoked to a youth correctional facility is entitled to a formal
              parole revocation hearing. The youth may choose to waive the formal
              parole revocation hearing after a preliminary parole revocation hearing
              officer has recommended parole revocation.

              1.     Staff must ensure the youth is provided a Notice of Right to Formal
                     Parole Revocation Hearing (YA 3025), to inform the youth of the
                     youth’s rights, including the right to speak with an attorney (at the
                     youth's expense) prior to making a decision about a waiver.

              2.     Staff must not influence the youth to waive or not waive a formal
                     parole revocation hearing.

              3.     The superintendent or designee may review a waiver any time after
                     the waiver has been made. The superintendent or designee may
                     cause a formal parole revocation hearing to be held if the
                     superintendent or designee believes such hearing is in the youth’s
                     best interest.

       D.     Formal Parole Revocation Hearing

              Each OYA facility must designate staff to serve on the facility’s formal
              parole revocation hearing committee.

              If a youth does not waive the formal revocation hearing, or the
              superintendent believes such hearing is in the best interest of the youth,
              the following procedures must be followed.

              1.     The superintendent must designate one of the facility’s formal
                     parole revocation hearing committee members as the chairperson,
                     and convene the committee.



Page 5 of 7                 I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                   Effective: 01/29/2026
              2.   A formal parole revocation hearing must be held within 60 days of a
                   youth’s return to a youth correctional facility.

                   Exception: If a petition has been filed charging the youth with new
                   law violations, formal parole revocation hearing procedures must be
                   suspended if the parole violation is contingent upon the outcome of
                   the charges. The formal revocation hearing must be held within 60
                   days of the disposition of the charges.

              3.   Within a reasonable time before the formal parole revocation
                   hearing is scheduled to occur, the hearing committee chairperson
                   must provide notice to the youth and the youth's parent/guardian (if
                   applicable) in accordance with OAR 416-300-0060. Written notice
                   must be given to the youth explaining how the hearing will be
                   conducted using a Notice of Formal Parole Revocation Hearing
                   (OYA 3021).

              4.   Staff must follow OAR 416-300-0060(3) if the youth requests to
                   subpoena witnesses.

              5.   The formal parole revocation hearing must be conducted before the
                   parole revocation hearing committee in accordance with the
                   procedures listed in OAR 416-300-0060.

                   a)    An audio or video recording must be made of all oral
                         testimony and presentations. The recording may be
                         reviewed by the parole revocation hearing committee before
                         any findings are determined, or in the event of a judicial
                         review.

                   b)    OYA must keep the recording at least 120 days after the
                         final order is issued.

              6.   Hearing outcome

                   The committee chairperson must issue to the superintendent a
                   Formal Parole Revocation Hearing Report (OYA 3022) from the
                   hearing committee that contains the following:

                   a)    A written summary of what occurred at the hearing, including
                         the substance of the documents or testimony given in
                         support of revocation and the youth’s response and
                         presentation;

                   b)    Ruling on admissibility of offered evidence;

                   c)    Findings of fact; and

                   d)    Recommendations for action by the superintendent or
                         designee.

Page 6 of 7              I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                 Effective: 01/29/2026
              7.    Superintendent’s review

                    The superintendent or designee must provide the youth a copy of
                    the OYA 3022 with the hearing committee’s findings of fact and
                    recommendations.

                    The superintendent or designee must notify the youth of the youth’s
                    right to file a written objection to the OYA 3022 within 10 days of
                    receiving the proposed order. The youth may present objections
                    orally, at the discretion of the superintendent.

              8.    Final order

                    After reviewing any exceptions and objections presented by the
                    youth, the superintendent or designee must issue a final order
                    using an Order of Revocation of Parole (OYA 3023).

                    a)     The final order must include the action taken by the
                           superintendent or designee and either incorporate the
                           recommendations of the revocation hearing committee or set
                           forth the superintendent’s or designee’s own findings of fact,
                           conclusions, and rulings on admissibility of evidence and
                           other matters.

                    b)     The superintendent’s or designee’s final order must also set
                           forth the youth’s right to petition for reconsideration or
                           rehearing of the final order, and the statutes under which the
                           final order may be appealed.

                    c)     The superintendent or designee must immediately notify the
                           committing court of the final order.

                    d)     The superintendent or designee must give the youth a copy
                           of the final order.

              9.    The youth may file a petition for reconsideration or rehearing of a
                    final order with the superintendent or designee in accordance with
                    OAR 416-300-0060(7).

       E.     Designated staff must record the appropriate JJIS Decision Points to
              include:

              1.    Preliminary parole revocation hearing; and

              2.    Formal parole revocation hearing.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING REQUIRED: NO




Page 7 of 7                I-A-13.0 Parole Revocation                Effective: 01/29/2026
