                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                            Part 0 – Mission, Values, Principles

 Subject:
 Professional Standards
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:      Effective Date:   Date of Last
 0: Mission, Values, Principles - 2.1 0-2.1 (12/08)
                                                                                Review:
                                                         09/30/2016
                                      0-2.1 (12/06)                    09/30/2024
                                      I-D-2.0 (05/00)
 Related          ORS Chapter 244 (Government Ethics)
 Standards        OAR Chapter 416, (Division 800 (Criminal Records Checks)
 and              Oregon Government Ethics Commission: A Guide for Public Officials
 References:      Department of Administrative Services; Chief Human Resources Office
                      (DAS-CHRO) statewide policies:
                      50-010-01 (Discrimination and Harassment-Free Workplace)
                      50-010-03 (Maintaining a Professional Workplace)
                     American Probation and Parole Association (APPA) Code of Ethics
                     OYA policies: 0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                      0-2.2 (Relationships with Youth and Their Families)
                      0-2.3 (Mandatory Reporting of Abuse)
                      0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest)
                      0-3.0 (Harassment-free Workplace)
                      0-3.1 (Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action)
                      0-4.0 (Drug-free Workplace; Alcohol and Marijuana Restrictions)
                      0-5.0 (Violence-free Workplace)
                      0-6.0 (Weapons in the Workplace)
                      0-7.0 (Use of Electronic Information Assets and Systems)
                      I-A-1.0 (Lobbying)
                      I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                      Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                      I-C-1.0 (Property Control Systems)
                      I-C-2.0 (Use of State-owned Vehicles)
                      I-C-8.0 (Smoke-, Tobacco-, Aerosol-, and Vapor-free Agency)
                      I-C-9.0 (Mobile Communication Devices (Cell Phones) and Other
                      Mobile Data Storage Devices)
                      I-D-2.1 (Use of Language Services)
                      I-D-3.11 (Political Activity)
                      I-D-3.13 (Staff Dress Standards)
                      I-E-2.1 (Public Records Requests for Agency Records)
                      I-E-2.2 (Youth Facility Case File and Medical File Protection
                      and Transfer)
                       I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and Records)
                       I-E-3.0 (OYA Media Relations)
                       II-B-1.1 (Use of Physical Intervention in Facilities)
                       II-E-2.4 (English Plus - Facility)
                       II-F-1.0 (Youth Rights – Facility)
                       III-A-2.2 (English Plus – Community)
                       III-B-4.0 (Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community)



Page 1 of 8                    0-2.1 Professional Standards                Effective: 09/30/2016
 Related           None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Deputy Director
                                          ____________________________
                                          Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes professional standards for OYA staff. As Oregon public
       officials, OYA staff must adhere to ethics and boundaries described in Oregon
       laws and by the agency.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Business: Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise,
       franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual and any other legal
       entity operated for economic gain but excluding any income-producing not-for-
       profit corporation that is tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue
       Code with which a public official or a relative of the public official is associated
       only as a member or board director or in a nonremunerative capacity.

       Gifts: Something of value given to a public official, a relative of a public official,
       or a member of the household, and the recipient either makes no payment or
       makes payment at a discounted price. The opportunity for the gift is one that is
       not available to members of the general public, who are not public officials, under
       the same terms and conditions as those that apply to the gift offered to the public
       official, the relative, or a member of the household.

       Legislative or administrative interest: An economic interest, distinct from that
       of the general public, in one or more bills, resolutions, regulations, proposals or
       other matters subject to the action or vote of a person acting in the capacity of a
       public official.

       Member of the household: Any person who resides with the public official.

       Public official: Any person who serves the State of Oregon or any of its political
       subdivisions or any other public body of the state as an officer, employee, agent
       or otherwise, irrespective of whether the person is compensated for such
       services; including both permanent and temporary employees.

       Records and information: Any writing, including handwriting, typewriting,
       printing, photographing and every means of recording, including letters, words,
       pictures, sounds, or symbols or combination thereof, and all papers, maps, files,
       facsimiles, electronic recordings containing any information relating to the
       conduct of OYA’s duties as a public agency (e.g., JJIS notes, e-mails,
       handwritten notes, videotapes, compact disks, DVDs), and interstate compact
       records held by OYA.



Page 2 of 8                 0-2.1 Professional Standards               Effective: 09/30/2016
       Relative: Includes (from ORS chapter 244):
       (a) The spouse, parent, stepparent, child, sibling, stepsibling, son-in-law or
           daughter-in-law of the public official;
       (b) The parent, stepparent, child, sibling, stepsibling, son-in-law or daughter-in-
           law of the spouse of the public official;
       (c) Any individual for whom the public official has a legal support obligation; or
       (d) Any individual for whom the public official provides benefits arising from the
           public official’s public employment or from whom the public official receives
           benefits arising from that individual’s employment.

III.   POLICY:

       As part of Oregon’s juvenile justice continuum, OYA strives to ensure
       communities are safe, youth are held accountable to their victims and
       communities, and that youth develop into responsible, connected members of
       their communities.

       OYA is a state agency. State agency employees (OYA staff) are “public officials,”
       according to Oregon laws. Public officials serve the public and are expected to
       use laws and professional standards (not personal gain) to guide their decision
       making and behavior. These laws and standards include:

             Following the state code of ethics (ORS chapter 244);

             Meeting and helping to advance OYA’s mission, vision, and core values; and

             Adhering to the professional standards that govern the scope of services
              provided by OYA.

       In order to achieve its mission, OYA employs, trains, supports, and empowers a
       competent, professional, and diverse workforce. Developing an effective
       workforce to achieve these goals in a manner that merits public confidence and
       respect requires all staff to appreciate the relationship between their actions, both
       on the job and in their personal lives, and public opinion.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        State employees code of ethics

                 1.    Staff, as public officials, must not -

                        a)     Solicit or accept from any person, business, or organization
                               any gift if it may be reasonably inferred that it is given for the
                               purpose of influencing official actions or affecting, or
                               substantially affecting, directly or indirectly, the performance
                               or non-performance of an official duty. Additional guidelines
                               on gifts are described in this policy;

                        b)     Use or attempt to use their positions to gain a financial
                               benefit (other than their compensation plans), avoid a
                               financial cost, or obtain a privilege for themselves, a relative,
                               a member of their household, or their businesses if the
Page 3 of 8                    0-2.1 Professional Standards                Effective: 09/30/2016
                         opportunity is available only because of the position held by
                         the staff;

                         Examples include receiving discounts on non-official
                         business travel arrangements, or using travel awards
                         obtained while conducting state business for personal travel.

                   c)    Avoid consequences of illegal acts;

                   d)    Solicit or receive a promise of future employment in return
                         for the public official’s influence; or

                   e)    Use confidential information obtained in the course of official
                         duties for personal gain.

              2.   OYA staff, as public officials, and their relatives or members of
                   household may accept the following types of gifts (see OYA policy
                   0-2.2 Relationships with Youth and Their Families regarding giving
                   or receiving gifts from youth, former youth, or youth families):

                   a)    Gifts from a source that does not have a legislative or
                         administrative interest in the staff member as a public
                         official;

                   b)    Gifts from their own relatives or members of household
                         (regardless of the relative’s or member of household’s
                         administrative or legislative interest); or

                   c)    Gifts totaling less than $50 in value during a calendar year
                         from one source (person or organization) if the source could
                         have a legislative or administrative interest in the staff
                         member as a public official. This includes food and
                         beverages consumed in the presence of the giver.

              3.   The following are not considered “gifts” by government ethics law
                   and may be accepted by OYA staff:

                   a)    Unsolicited tokens or awards of appreciation if the re-sale
                         value is less than $25;

                   b)    Informational material, publications or subscriptions related
                         to the recipient’s performance of official duties;

                   c)    Admission to a scheduled program, or the cost of food or
                         beverage consumed by staff, their relative or member of the
                         household, if staff are speaking or answering questions as
                         part of the scheduled program (e.g., reception, meal, or
                         meeting);

                   d)    Waiver or discounted fees for continuing education if it
                         involves continuing education required to satisfy a
                         professional licensing requirement; or
Page 4 of 8              0-2.1 Professional Standards              Effective: 09/30/2016
                     e)     Travel expenses paid by another public official if the event
                            relates to the official capacity of the staff.

                     See related policies:
                     0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                     0-2.2 (Relationships with Youth and Their Families)
                     0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest)
                     I-A-1.0 (Lobbying)
                     I-D-3.11 (Political Activity)

       B.     Agency standards

              Staff are expected to apply the agency’s mission, core values, and
              principles of conduct as a framework for decision-making and personal
              behavior in the daily conduct of business.

              Staff must refer to OYA policy 0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct) for specific
              guidance regarding the agency’s mission, core values, culture, and
              principles of conduct.

              1.     Within the framework of its agency mission, core values, culture,
                     principles of conduct, and policies, OYA supports the development
                     of a culturally competent work environment that -

                     a)     Educates its staff and stakeholders to understand the
                            importance and expectation to be culturally competent and
                            culturally responsive;

                     b)     Reflects the diversity of OYA’s staff and youth populations;
                            and

                     c)     Provides a workplace that is welcoming, comfortable, free of
                            discrimination, and safe for all people.

                     See related policies:
                     0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                     I-D-2.1 (Language Services)
                     II-E-2.4 (English Plus [Facility])
                     III-A-2.2 (English Plus [Community])
                     II-F-1.0 (Youth Rights [Facility])
                     III-B-4.0 (Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community)

              2.     Staff must report for duty at the time and place required by
                     assignment or directive.

                     a)     When reporting for duty, staff must be capable of performing
                            all of the essential functions required of their work
                            assignments.

                     b)     Staff must be fully alert and attentive while on duty.


Page 5 of 8                 0-2.1 Professional Standards               Effective: 09/30/2016
              3.    Failure to comply with any provision of OYA rules, policies, or
                    procedures may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
                    dismissal from state service.

                    In addition, staff must follow all federal, state, and local laws while
                    performing their work activities and duties.

                    See related policy: 0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)

              4.    As public officials, criminal acts by staff have a debilitating impact
                    on the agency and its ability to accomplish its mission. Certain
                    actions that demonstrate jeopardy to the safety of children, youth,
                    vulnerable people, or demonstrate lack of moral fitness, are
                    fundamentally inconsistent with being an OYA staff member.

                    a)     A staff member who is charged with, arrested for, or
                           convicted of a law violation because of on-duty or off-duty
                           actions must inform their supervisor of such in writing by the
                           next working day.

                    b)     Should a staff member be charged with, arrested for, or
                           convicted of a law violation during work hours, the staff
                           member must immediately inform their supervisor of such in
                           writing.

                    See related policies:
                    0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                    I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                    Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                    I-C-2.0 (Use of State-Owned Vehicles)
                    I-E-1.0 (Director’s Incident Notification and Report)

              5.    Staff must be truthful in rendering any report, in giving testimony, or
                    in giving any official statement about any action taken relating to
                    the staff’s employment, responsibilities, position, or duties.

                    See related policy: 0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)

              6.   Within the scope of employment, each staff member is obligated to
                   promptly report to the proper authority -

                    a)     Any unlawful acts;

                    b)     Acts that pose an immediate threat to the safety, security
                           and welfare of staff, youth or the public; and

                    c)     Violations of rules, regulations, policies, and procedures
                           involving the agency.

              7.    As public officials, staff must release or disclose agency records
                    and information as required by law and according to OYA policy.


Page 6 of 8                0-2.1 Professional Standards                Effective: 09/30/2016
                   Staff must maintain the integrity of agency information by releasing
                   records and information only to those granted access.

                   a)     Records and information must remain intact, and staff may
                          only remove, destroy, or make copies of records in
                          accordance with established policies, procedures, or upon
                          proper authorization.

                   b)     Staff may only access or share OYA records and information
                          when it is required for work assignments.

                   c)     Staff must protect and handle OYA information according to
                          its level of sensitivity as described in OYA policy I-E-3.2
                          Information Asset Classification and Protection.

                   See related policies:
                   I-E-1.2 (Response to Subpoenas)
                   I-E-1.4 (Public Record Management)
                   I-E-2.0 (Records Retention, Destruction and Archiving)
                   I-E-2.1 (Public Records Requests for Agency Records)
                   I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and Records)
                   I-E-2.2 (Youth Facility Case File and Medical File Transfer)
                   I-E-3.0 (OYA Media Relations)

              8.   OYA maintains a drug-, alcohol-, smoke-, tobacco-, aerosol-, and
                   vapor-free workplace. Staff must not use these substances or
                   inhalant delivery systems within OYA facilities, in state buildings, on
                   state property, or where such use has been designated as
                   prohibited.

                   See related policies:
                   0-4.0 (Drug-free Workplace; Alcohol and Marijuana Restriction)
                   I-C-8.0 (Smoke-, Tobacco-, Aerosol-, and Vapor-free Agency)

              9.   Staff must, in the performance of their duties, be respectful,
                   courteous, and considerate toward others.

                   a)     Staff must maintain an environment that is free from
                          discrimination, harassment, threats, and intimidation toward
                          others in the workplace.

                          See related policies:
                          0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                          0-3.0 (Harassment-free Workplace)
                          0-3.1 (Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action)
                          0-5.0 (Violence-free Workplace)
                          I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth
                          Sexual Abuse and Sexual Harassment)

                   b)     Staff may not use terminology that disrespects the dignity or
                          violates the human rights of others.


Page 7 of 8               0-2.1 Professional Standards              Effective: 09/30/2016
                           See related policies:
                           0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                           I-D-2.1 (Use of Language Services)

              10.   Staff must recognize the role they play within a treatment
                    environment serving youth, and develop and conform to
                    professional standards during interactions with all agency
                    stakeholders - including youth, youth families, and members of the
                    community.

                    See related policies:
                    0-2.0 (Principles of Conduct)
                    0-2.2 (Relationships with Youth and Their Families)
                    0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest)
                    I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual
                    Abuse and Sexual Harassment)
                    I-D-3.13 (Staff Dress Standards)

              11.   Staff political activity during working hours must be restricted to
                    comply with state and agency rules and policy.

                    See related policy: I-D-3.11 (Political Activity)

              12.   Staff may not engage in any activities or personal business that
                    would cause them to neglect their duties or cause a conflict of
                    interest on the job.

                    See related policies:
                    0-2.4 (Conflict of Interest)
                    I-C-3.2 (Sales and Solicitations)
                    0-4.0 (Drug-free Workplace; Alcohol and Marijuana Restriction)

              13.   Staff may not use, remove, borrow, lend, or give away OYA
                    property for other than official business, unless authorized by the
                    director or designee. Such property includes state-issued clothing,
                    identification cards, office supplies, equipment, vehicles, and food.

                    See related policies:
                    0-7.0 (Use of Electronic Information Assets and Systems)
                    I-C-1.0 (Property Control Systems)
                    I-C-2.0 (Use of State-owned Vehicles)
                    I-C-9.0 (Use of Mobile Communication Devices (Cell Phones) and
                    Other Mobile Data Storage Devices)

              14.   All newly hired staff are informed of this policy during New
                    Employee Orientation.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 8 of 8                0-2.1 Professional Standards                 Effective: 09/30/2016
