                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Research Proposals
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:   Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                                                               Review:
 E: Information Management – 1.3            I-E-1.3 03/04 12/23/2011
                                                                          09/03/2025
                                            I-E-1.3 06/03
 Related             OAR 416-170 (Approval of Research Proposals)
 Standards           American Correctional Association: Standards for Juvenile
 and                  Correctional Facilities; 4-JCF-6F-06 (Research Activities)
 References:         U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office for Human
                      Research Protections
                     OYA form: YA 9300 OYA Research Committee Proposal
                      Application
                     JJIS policy: III-A-1 Granting Access to JJIS and JJIS Data
                     JJIS form: 4E External Partner Access Request
                      4R Research Data Extract Request
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Research Manager
                                             ________________________
                                             Colette S. Peters, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy governs research activities involving all OYA youth, including those
       placed under supervision in the community and in OYA facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Executive Team: An executive-level group that provides oversight of agency
       operations.

       OYA Research Committee (ORC): OYA committee comprised of OYA staff and
       external partners, overseen by the OYA Research Manager.

       Youth: A person in the legal and physical custody of the OYA, either in an OYA
       facility or placed in the community under supervision; or a person in the legal
       custody of the Department of Corrections and the physical custody of OYA in an
       OYA facility.




Page 1 of 5                   I-E-1.3 Research Proposals                     Effective: 12/23/2011
III.   POLICY:

       In many instances, OYA programs and services produce information and offer
       opportunities that could be used to support biomedical and behavioral research
       projects. The express consent of OYA, in accordance with the guidelines defined
       by this policy, must be obtained prior to involving youth in OYA custody or
       information gathered from agency records to support research projects. The
       express consent of the Department of Corrections (DOC) must also be obtained
       prior to conducting any research involving youth in the legal custody of DOC and
       the physical custody of OYA.

       This policy governs such activities involving all OYA youth, including those
       placed under supervision in the community, or in OYA facilities.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA will consider research proposals that benefit the agency or juvenile
              corrections as a whole, including:

              1.    Studies of the possible causes of criminal behavior, and effects of
                    incarceration;

              2.    Studies of close-custody systems or treatment programs as
                    institutional structures or of young people as incarcerated persons;

              3.    Research on conditions particularly affecting youth as a class (for
                    example, research on social and psychological problems such as
                    alcoholism, drug addiction, or sexual assaults); and

              4.    Research on practices, both innovative and accepted, that have the
                    intent and reasonable probability of improving the health or
                    wellbeing of the subject.

       B.     OYA Research Committee (ORC)

              1.    Proposals or requests for information related to research projects
                    that are received by local offices or facilities must be referred to the
                    ORC.

                    The field supervisor or facility superintendent/camp director will
                    indicate a willingness or lack of willingness to participate in the
                    project.

              2.    The ORC will:

                    a)     Represent the agency’s facilities, programs, stakeholders,
                           and youth, and include persons with the technical knowledge
                           and ability to review project methodology and outcomes;

                    b)     Develop procedures by which research proposals are
                           reviewed in a timely manner;


Page 2 of 5                I-E-1.3 Research Proposals                    Effective: 12/23/2011
                     c)     Review all research proposals and submit recommendations
                            for approval or denial to the OYA Research Manager;

                     d)     Refer proposals that require OYA policy decisions to the
                            Executive Team, as appropriate;

                     e)     Provide notification of approved research projects, including
                            a copy of the approved informed consent or assent form, to
                            relevant OYA programs or facilities;

                     f)     Maintain a complete and current list of all research projects
                            approved by OYA;

                     g)     Review the resulting data or project report and recommend
                            to the Executive Team whether a disclaimer is necessary;
                            and

                     h)     Assist in the development of a project summary for
                            distribution to the agency.

       C.     The ORC will ensure the risk posed to subjects is minimal and
              participation in the research project will represent no more than an
              inconvenience.

              1.     Treatments, therapies, and procedures used in the project must be
                     generally recognized and accepted as therapeutic.

              2.     The ORC will consider the nature and purpose of the project, the
                     risk and anticipated benefit to the youth, and the youth’s age,
                     maturity, status, and condition.

              3.     If the project requires the assignment of youth to control groups that
                     may not benefit from the research, the proposal will include
                     discussion regarding the ethical considerations to support the
                     research.

              4.     The ORC will ensure the project requestor has had the project
                     reviewed by a human subjects review committee (Institution Review
                     Board, IRB), and documentation of such is attached to a YA 9300
                     (OYA Research Committee Proposal Application) form.

       D.     The ORC will ensure the project requestor is aware of OYA’s right to
              review the compilation of data or completed report describing project
              outcomes prior to publication, and may require a disclaimer if it believes
              assumptions about the data are flawed.

       E.     Informed Consent

              Youth participation in research projects is voluntary. The ORC will ensure
              the research project has been reviewed by an IRB and will follow the
              requirements regarding consent determined by the IRB. The ORC will


Page 3 of 5                 I-E-1.3 Research Proposals                  Effective: 12/23/2011
              ensure the requestor makes adequate provisions to obtain each youth’s
              assent or consent to participate, according to the IRB recommendations.

              1.     OYA may provide consent for youth less than age 18 (minors).

                     The ORC must ensure youth assent is given for minors, where
                     “assent” means an affirmative agreement to participate and not
                     mere failure to object.

              2.     If a requestor’s IRB requires parental/guardian consent, OYA
                     Research staff will work with the requestor to facilitate an
                     appropriate consenting process.

              3.     Youth 18 years of age and older may consent to their own
                     participation.

              4.     The ORC may allow youth between 15 and 17 years of age to
                     consent to their own participation in the following circumstances:

                     a)     There is the potential of benefit to the youth;

                     b)     Procedures involved in the research are not substantially
                            different in their risks or benefits from existing treatment for
                            which the youth would by state law be able to consent;

                     c)     Parental consent is not in the best interest of the youth, is
                            extremely difficult to obtain or would not be possible to
                            obtain; and

                     d)     The research otherwise meets the federal requirements for
                            research with children (see U.S. Department of Health and
                            Human Services Office for Human Research Protections).

       F.     When proposals involve DOC youth in the physical custody of OYA, the
              ORC will ensure DOC approval is also obtained.

       G.     Youth confidentiality will be maintained.

              1.     Copies of OYA records may not be taken from official files.
                     Identifying information about a specific youth may not be included
                     in the research report(s).

              2.     OYA Research staff must ensure the requestor returns to OYA any
                     data provided to the requestor by OYA.
       H.     Project approval
              The ORC may recommend agency approval of research projects only if it
              deems the proposal meets the general standards listed above and the
              following criteria:

              1.     The proposal is submitted on a YA 9300 form (OYA Research
                     Committee Proposal Application).
Page 4 of 5                 I-E-1.3 Research Proposals                    Effective: 12/23/2011
              2.   The project has been reviewed and approved by a human subjects
                   review committee (IRB).

              3.   The research question is relevant and of importance to OYA.

              4.   Project implementation will not cause undue expense or use of
                   agency resources, or compromise safety or security, the agency
                   mission, or state or federal laws. The ORC must consider possible
                   effects on facilities and programs (including effects on participating
                   staff and youth) when evaluating proposals.

              5.   Project participation advantages are not of such magnitude to affect
                   a youth’s ability to weigh the risks of the participation against the
                   advantages while in the limited-choice environment within facilities
                   or programs.

                   a)     Such advantages include general living conditions, medical
                          care, food quality, amenities, and opportunity for earnings.

                   b)     Proposals must clearly indicate if participating youth will
                          receive payment for their involvement in the project. The
                          ORC must weigh the effects of such payment when
                          considering approval of the project.

              6.   The risks involved in the research must be commensurate with the
                   risks that would be accepted by nonadjudicated or nonconvicted
                   persons.

              7.   Procedures for selection of subjects within the facility or program
                   must be fair to all youth and immune from arbitrary intervention by
                   facility or program personnel, or other youth.

                   Control subjects must be selected randomly from the group of
                   available youth who meet the characteristics needed for the
                   particular research project, unless there is written justification for
                   following another process.

              8.   Project information must be presented in language that is
                   understandable to the subject population.

              9.   Adequate assurance of the youth’s participation in the project will
                   not affect the youth’s release or privilege status.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 5 of 5               I-E-1.3 Research Proposals                     Effective: 12/23/2011
