                           OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                           Part I – Administrative Services

Subject:
Workers’ Compensation
Section – Policy Number:                        Supersedes:     Effective Date: Date of Last
                                                I-D-1.5 (7/14)                  Review:
D: Personnel Management – 1.5                                   06/07/2022
                                                I-D-1.5 (6/13)                  06/07/2024
                                                I-D-1.5 (6/03)
                                                I-D-1.5 (12/02)
Related              ▪ ORS 656.262 (Processing of claims)
Standards            ▪ ORS 656.340 (Vocational assistance)
and                  ▪ ORS 659A.043 (Reinstatement of injured worker)
References:          ▪ ORS 659A.046 (Reemployment of injured worker)
                     ▪ OAR 839-006-0130 (Injured Worker Reinstatement)
                     ▪ OAR 839-006-0135 (Injured Worker Reemployment)
                     ▪ OAR 839-006-0150 (Retention and Loss of Reinstatement and
                       Reemployment Rights)
                     ▪ Applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements
                     ▪ SAIF Form 801 (Workers’ Compensation Claim Form)
                     ▪ OYA policy: I-C-7.0 (Safety Program)
                       I-C-7.3 (Hazard Communications Program)
                     ▪ OYA form: YA 8300 (Incident/Accident/Hazard Report)
Related
                     ▪ None
Procedures:
Policy Owner:                                   Approved:

Human Resources Administrator
                                                ________________________
                                                Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy delineates how OYA responds to its injured workers.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None

III.   POLICY:

       OYA is committed to assuring a safe and healthy workplace for all staff and to
       the early return of injured workers to the workplace.

       OYA reinstates or re-employs injured workers at the earliest opportunity,
       providing temporary job modification if necessary. If a staff member is injured on
       Page 1 of 5    I-D-1.5 Workers’ Compensation                     Effective: 06/07/2022
      the job, OYA will identify if modified duty work is available to the staff member as
      soon as the staff member is medically cleared to return to the workplace.

      OYA participates in employer incentive programs, such as the Employer at Injury
      Program, through the State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation (SAIF), the
      Workers’ Compensation Division, and other program sources. OYA commits any
      reimbursement from these programs toward maintaining a safe and healthy work
      environment.

IV.   STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES:

      A.     Injured staff

             1.     Report any work-related injury or illness to their immediate
                    supervisor/manager within 24 hours.

             2.     Complete the worker portion of the YA 8300 (Incident/Accident/Hazard
                    Report).

             3.     Complete the SAIF 801 (Workers’ Compensation Claim Form) when
                    the employee seeks medical treatment.

             4.     Deliver the SAIF 801 to their immediate supervisor/manager on the
                    day of incident or diagnosis of condition.

             5.     Maintain regular contact with their immediate supervisor/manager
                    while off work due to injury or illness to provide status updates.

             6.     Notify supervisor/manager or Human Resources of any change in
                    address or telephone number within 10 days of the change while off
                    work.

             7.     Provide a doctor's certificate to their immediate supervisor/manager
                    when released by the treating physician to return to active work.

                    a)       Staff must provide the certificate to their immediate
                             supervisor/manager prior to returning to work.

                    b)       The certificate must clearly specify if released to the former job
                             and any restrictions.

             8.     May request re-employment or reinstatement with their immediate
                    supervisor/manager within seven calendar days following the date of
                    the treating physician's release to return to work.

                    a)       The request must be in writing, dated, and signed.

                             (1)    If the former job or a suitable alternative is not available
                                    at the time of the request, staff must contact their
                                    supervisor/manager in person or by telephone once per
                                    week to renew the request. If an offer of a suitable
                                    position is refused, OYA will consider the refusal as
      Page 2 of 5   I-D-1.5 Workers’ Compensation                       Effective: 06/07/2022
                            possible grounds for termination of employment and an
                            abandonment of reinstatement or re-employment rights.

                     (2)    Reinstatement or re-employment rights may be lost by
                            failure to adhere to injured worker's responsibilities.

              b)     Failure to seek a written release upon becoming able to return
                     to active work may constitute abandonment of reinstatement or
                     re-employment rights.

                     According to ORS 656.340, insurers are responsible for
                     requesting reinstatement or re-employment on behalf of injured
                     workers.

B.     Injured staff’s immediate supervisor/manager

       1.     Ensure that staff understand the Workers' Compensation policy and
              procedures.

       2.     Complete YA 8300 for any workplace injury or illness on the job site.

       3.     Immediately investigate any work-related accident, injury or illness
              and informs the OYA safety manager of any safety or health
              complaints or hazards.

       4.     Provide SAIF 801 claim form to the staff upon learning of the need for
              a claim as evidenced by either medical treatment more than first aid or
              time loss due to work-related injury.

       5.     Review worker's portion of the SAIF 801 for completeness.

       6.     Complete employer description of accident.

       7.     Send a copy of the completed YA 8300 and, if applicable, the SAIF
              801 to Human Resources immediately.

       8.     Send the staff's copy to the injured worker.

       9.     Remove and retain employer's copy of the SAIF 801.

       10.    Make personal contact with the injured worker within one week of
              injury or illness and maintains weekly contact, if possible, while the
              injured worker is off the job.

       11.    Work with the staff and the agency claims coordinator to provide early
              return-to-work assistance to injured workers.

       12.    Notify the agency claims coordinator within 24 hours when an injured
              worker requests reinstatement or re-employment and provides the
              date when the injured worker is released to return to work.


Page 3 of 5   I-D-1.5 Workers’ Compensation                     Effective: 06/07/2022
     C.     Executive Staff

            Ensure that supervisors/managers work with injured workers to provide
            early return-to-work assistance.

     D.     Claims Coordinator

            1.     Administer the workers' compensation program.

            2.     Assist or advise supervisors/managers on how to investigate reports of
                   injury or illnesses.

            3.     Keep agency management informed of the status of the agency’s
                   injured workers.

            4.     Assist the injured worker's immediate supervisor/manager and the
                   SAIF Return to Work consultant, if necessary, to implement an early
                   return-to-work program.

            5.     Perform review of modified duty tasks that need to be completed to
                   determine where employment may be available for injured workers
                   within the agency.

     E.     Human Resources Staff

            Maintain a proper recordkeeping system to comply with occupational
            safety and health reporting requirements.

V.   INCENTIVE FUNDS

     A.     The OYA safety manager must research and initiate applications for wage
            reimbursement, worksite modification funds, or incentives that are available
            to assist employers in returning injured workers to the work site at the
            earliest possible date.

     B.     Central Human Resources must:

            1.     Review with SAIF applications for wage reimbursements or
                   worksite modification funds or incentives that are available for
                   wage reimbursement through the employer-at-injury program
                   (EAIP) on a semi-annual basis;

            2.     Ensure that SAIF submits applications to Department of Consumer
                   and Business Services (DCBS) for eligible funds;

            3.     Maintain a record of applications and results, and an account of
                   funds received through such incentive programs; and

            4.     Forward copies of SAIF 801s received from OYA field offices,
                   facilities, and Central Office to SAIF within five days after notice of
                   knowledge of any medical treatment.

     Page 4 of 5   I-D-1.5 Workers’ Compensation                     Effective: 06/07/2022
      C.     Disbursement of funds

             Funds received from incentive programs must be held in a central fund
             administered by the Human Resources Office at the direction of the OYA
             claims coordinator.

      D.     Expenditure of funds

             1.     Requests to spend funds may be made by a field supervisor,
                    superintendent/camp director, or an assistant director.

             2.     Such funds must be used for activities, training, equipment, or
                    modifications to worksites that are directly related to improving the
                    safety and health of the work environment.

             3.     Funds may be expended at the direction of the OYA claims
                    coordinator.

             4.     Agencywide safety activities (e.g., agencywide safety training, agency
                    representatives attending safety conferences) may be expended at the
                    direction of the OYA claims coordinator.

VI.   LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




      Page 5 of 5   I-D-1.5 Workers’ Compensation                    Effective: 06/07/2022
