                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                      Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Medication Management in Substitute Care
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                  Revision:
 D: Case Management – 3.0                 III-D-3.0 (12/17) 06/07/2022
                                          III-D-3.0 (7/11)              06/07/2026
                                          III-D-3.0 (6/05)
                                          III-D-3.0 (6/05)
 Related            ORS 109.675 (Right to diagnosis or treatment for mental or
 Standards           emotional disorder or chemical dependency without parental
 and                 consent)
 References:        ORS 418.517 (Procedures for use of psychotropic medications for
                     children in foster care; rules; hearing)
                    OAR 416-340-0070 (Medication Management in Substitute Care)
                    OAR 416-530-0060 (Foster Parent Duties and Responsibilities)
                    OYA forms: YA 3101 (Consent for Disclosure of Confidential
                     Behavioral Health Information)
                     YA 3105 (Foster Home Individual Youth Medication Log)
                     YA 3106 (Parent/Guardian Notification of New Changed
                     Medication)
                     YA 3107 (Field Medication Storage and Disposal Log)
 Related            Community Services procedure: Medication Management
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                 Approved:

 Community Services Assistant Director
                                               ________________________
                                               Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides standards for OYA field staff regarding administration,
       control, and storage of youth medications while in substitute care.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Psychotropic medication: Medication prescribed to alter brain function for
       purposes of treating problems with thought processes, mood, or behavior.
       Psychotropic medications include stimulants, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers,
       anxiolytics, and sedatives.

       Substitute care providers: Persons authorized by the OYA through contract or
       other written agreement to provide supervision and care for youth on parole or
       probation status in the community. Such persons include, but are not limited to,

Page 1 of 5         III-D-3.0 Medication Management in Substitute Care       Effective: 06/07/2022
       contracted residential treatment providers and certified foster parents (including
       respite providers).

III.   POLICY:

       OYA strives to address all youth healthcare needs in a safe manner. OYA
       consistently administers, controls, and stores youth medication. Field staff
       support OYA policy by facilitating proper and consistent youth medication
       management.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, we play a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. OYA recognizes that youth from historically marginalized
       communities have historically poorer access to health care. This places an
       increased importance on the continuity of care for these youth.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     A youth’s JPPO must ensure a smooth transition upon new commitment
              and when the youth moves from one placement to another. The JPPO will
              provide oversight to ensure necessary medical and mental health services
              are available for the youth.

              Appointments to ensure continuity of care and uninterrupted prescription
              of medications must be scheduled prior to initial placement and transition.
              The availability of medical and mental health providers must be
              considered when ensuring continuity of care.

       B.     OYA must ensure OYA substitute care providers consistently administer,
              control, and store youth medication. OYA contract language and related
              rules in OAR 416-340 and OAR 416-530 specify how substitute care
              providers must meet these responsibilities.

       C.     Disclosure Requirements

              1.     JPPOs must be notified within one working day by substitute care
                     providers of a youth’s new prescription for psychotropic medication
                     (OAR 416-340-0070).

              2.     JPPOs must explain the release of medication information (OYA
                     form YA 3101 Consent for Disclosure of Confidential Behavioral
                     Health Information) with each of their assigned youth who are
                     placed in substitute care.

              3.     JPPOs must document all requests, consents, and disclosures
                     regarding youth medication in JJIS by completing OYA form
                     YA 3101.


Page 2 of 5        III-D-3.0 Medication Management in Substitute Care   Effective: 06/07/2022
              4.     Before disclosing a youth’s medication information to the youth’s
                     parent/guardian, staff must verify the youth has consented to the
                     disclosure in these cases:

                     a)     The youth is 14 years of age or older and the medication is
                            prescribed for treatment of a mental or emotional disorder or
                            a chemical dependency; or

                     b)     The youth is 15 years of age or older and the medication is
                            prescribed for medical treatment.

       D.     Parent/Guardian Involvement and Notification

              JPPOs must seek medical and medication history from the
              parent/guardian, as outlined in OYA policy III-B-2.0 New Commitments to
              OYA Legal Custody.

              Parents/guardians must be notified of prescribed psychotropic medication
              activity listed below if a youth has consented to the release of information,
              or the youth is younger than required consent age (see section C.4.
              above).

              1.     The first time a youth is prescribed a psychotropic medication

                     a)     The field supervisor or designee must ensure the parent or
                            guardian is provided written notification within seven working
                            days of the field supervisor or designee’s knowledge of a
                            youth’s initial psychotropic medication prescription.

                     b)     Written notification must include:

                            (1)     The name of the prescribed psychotropic medication;

                            (2)     The prescribed dosage;

                            (3)     The reason the medication was prescribed (target
                                    symptoms); and

                            (4)     The youth’s JPPO’s contact information.

                     c)     Staff must document the notification on OYA form YA 3106
                            (Parent/Guardian Notification of New or Changed
                            Medication).

              2.     Changes or substitutions to existing psychotropic medication
                     prescriptions

                     a)     The youth’s JPPO must ensure that information about any
                            changes or substitutions to existing psychotropic medication
                            prescriptions is provided to the parent/guardian during the
                            youth’s multidisciplinary team (MDT) case review every 90
                            days.
Page 3 of 5        III-D-3.0 Medication Management in Substitute Care   Effective: 06/07/2022
                    b)      The information provided must include:

                            (1)     The name of the prescribed psychotropic medication
                                    being changed or substituted;

                            (2)     The change in dosage or name of the substitute
                                    medication; and

                            (3)     The reason for the change in dosage or type of
                                    psychotropic medication.

                    c)      The JPPO must verify the information is documented in the
                            MDT case review and that the parent/guardian is provided a
                            copy of the MDT case review documentation, regardless of
                            the parent/guardian’s MDT attendance or absence.

       E.     Medication Stored in Field Offices

              Medication stored in field offices must be stored as prescribed and be in a
              locked container to prevent unauthorized access. A detailed accounting of
              medications is critical as medications may be controlled substances.

              Two staff must sign an OYA form YA 3107 (Field Medication Storage and
              Disposal Log) to document removal or placement of medications in the
              locked container.

              See OYA Community Services procedure Medication Management for
              detailed storage and handling requirements.

       F.     Medication Transfer/Disposal

              1.    Staff must dispose of medications that are outdated, damaged,
                    deteriorated, discontinued, not in the original pharmacy container,
                    or refused by a youth.

                    a)      Staff must follow OYA Community Services procedure
                            Medication Management when disposing of medications.
                            Two OYA staff must be present during the process. One of
                            the staff must be a field supervisor or designee.

                    b)      Staff must document medication disposal on a YA 3107
                            form.

              2.    Staff must ensure current medications are transferred with a youth
                    when the youth leaves a placement (temporarily or permanently).

                    a)      Medications must be transported in their original labeled
                            containers.

                    b)      Staff must communicate with the person responsible for
                            receiving the youth (e.g., foster/respite care provider, youth’s
Page 4 of 5        III-D-3.0 Medication Management in Substitute Care   Effective: 06/07/2022
                            family member, residential program staff) regarding the type
                            and quantity of medication transported with the youth.

                     c)     Staff must follow up with the receiving person after the
                            youth’s arrival to ensure the medication arrived with the
                            youth.

       G.     Policy Compliance

              1.     Field supervisors must ensure their staff are familiar with this policy
                     and OYA Community Services procedure Medication Management.

              2.     Community Resources Unit staff must review contracted service
                     providers’ procedures and implementation to ensure compliance
                     with related OYA contracts, DHS licensing rules, and
                     OAR 416-340.

V.     GENERAL COMMUNITY SERVICES PROCEDURE REQUIRED: YES

       The general procedure addresses the following topics:

       A.     Medication disclosure requirements;

       B.     Medication storage/handling;

       C.     Administration of medication;

       D.     Medication transfers; and

       E.     Disposal of medication.


VI.    LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

       Local field office operating protocols must address the following topics:

       A.     A secure, locked area for medication storage;

       B.     Medication inventory system;

       C.     Destruction of medication process; and

       D.     Staff training regarding medication management.




Page 5 of 5        III-D-3.0 Medication Management in Substitute Care   Effective: 06/07/2022
