                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Use of State-owned Vehicles
 Section – Policy Number:                Supersedes:               Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                         I-C-2.0 (10/21)                             Revision/Review:
 C: Property Management – 2.0            I-C-2.0 (12/13)           10/29/2024        None
                                         I-C-2.0 (12/11)
                                         I-C-2.0 (9/08)
                                         I-C-2.0 (7/04)
                                         I-C-2.0 (6/03)
                                         I-C-2.1 (9/02 Info
                                         Letter)
 Related             ORS 283.305 through 283.395 (Control and regulation of state-
 Standards            owned motor vehicles)
 and                 ORS 806.010 (Oregon’s Mandatory Insurance Law)
 References:         OAR 125-155 (State Vehicle Use and Access)
                     DAS, Enterprise Asset Management, Fleet and Parking Services
                      policy:
                      107-011-040 PO (Statewide Fleet Management)
                     DAS, Risk Management Division (DAS-RMD) Travel Kit: A Guide
                      to Managing Risks While on the Road
                     Oregon Accounting Manual, 40.10.00.PO (Statewide Travel
                      Policy)
                     Applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements AFSCME Local 191;
                      SEIU Institutions Coalition
                     OYA policy: I-A-4.0 (Tort Liability and Claims)
                      I-C-7.0 (Safety and Health Program)
                      II-A-3.1 (Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips)
                      III-D-2.1 (Youth Transports and Escorts within the Community)
                     OYA forms: YA 0029 (OYA Mileage Report)
                      YA 0030 (State Vehicle Inspection Report Checklist)
                      YA 8008 (Application for Employment – Driving Record
                      Certification)
                      YA 8300 (Incident/Accident/Hazard Report)
                      YA 8313 (Supervisor Responsibilities for Filing SAIF/Workers
                      Comp Claims)
                      YA 8321 (Authorization to Use Private Vehicle)
                     Other forms: SAIF 801 (Workers’ Compensation Claim Form 801)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                Approved:

 Facilities Manager
                                              _____________________
                                              Joseph O’Leary, Director

Page 1 of 10                 I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles                Effective: 10/29/2024
I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides OYA staff guidelines for using state vehicles in a way that
       promotes safety, economy, good public relations, and complies with state rules
       and policy.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Official state business or state business: Any activity conducted in
       conformance to this policy and controlled by OYA to advance the lawful policies
       and purposes of the agency. State law requires a narrow interpretation of this
       term.

       Official workstation: The location designated in writing by OYA from which a
       staff normally carries out their duties.

       Private vehicle: A motor vehicle that is owned, rented, borrowed, leased, or
       otherwise lawfully in the possession and control of any private person or any
       entity other than the state. Private vehicles, when in use for state business, are
       treated as state vehicles in this policy.

       State vehicle: A motor vehicle owned, rented, borrowed, leased, or otherwise
       under the possession and control of the state. It is licensed for highway use.

       Vehicle custodian: OYA staff responsible for review and reconciliation of
       vehicle mileage logs.

       Volunteer: An unpaid person appointed by OYA to work on its behalf.
       Volunteers are appointed in writing to do state business under agency direction
       and control. They receive no compensation.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA is committed to a safe work environment, including prevention of work-
       related automobile accidents and incidents through staff awareness and training.
       Staff may use state-owned vehicles to conduct official state business. Staff must
       use state vehicles legally, courteously, and safely.

       Staff are expected to maintain a good driving record, and to recognize that off-
       duty incidents may affect OYA employment status. In addition, staff are
       cautioned that all on-duty traffic citations, citizen complaints, accidents, and
       vehicle incidents will be reviewed and may result in disciplinary action, up to and
       including dismissal from state service.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Staff and representatives must use state vehicles in a way that promotes
               safety, economy, and good public relations.

       B.      In all cases, persons who use a motor vehicle must have a valid driver’s
               license.


Page 2 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles        Effective: 10/29/2024
       C.      Transportation as required in performance of duties for official state
               business is an obligation. Transportation between home and a staff’s
               workplace is a personal obligation.

       D.      Efficient and economical use of state vehicles is required of all drivers.
               Each driver must select the method of transportation most advantageous
               to state government, when cost and other factors are considered.

               The travel should be by the most expeditious means of transportation
               practicable and commensurate with the nature and purpose of the
               employee’s duties. Also considered is energy conservation, total cost to
               state government (including costs of per diem, overtime, lost work time,
               and actual transportation costs), total distance traveled, number of points
               visited, and number of travelers.

       E.      Privately-owned vehicles may be used for official travel when such use
               benefits OYA and is authorized by the staff’s supervisor/manager.
               Approval must be documented on a completed form YA 8321
               (Authorization to Use Private Vehicle).

       F.      State liability insurance coverage

               1.     State-owned vehicles

                      Coverage is provided to staff and authorized users of state-owned,
                      controlled, or leased vehicles for injuries to persons and property.

               2.     Privately-owned vehicles

                      a)     Coverage is provided for OYA staff using their own vehicles
                             only if the staff is engaged in an activity within their scope of
                             employment, and is secondary to insurance provided by the
                             staff’s own policy.

                      b)     A staff member who elects to use their private vehicle for
                             official travel must have a completed form YA 8321
                             (Authorization to Use Private Vehicle) on file with Central
                             Accounting.

       G.      OYA job announcements and position descriptions must clearly state the
               position’s driving responsibilities, including whether driving is an essential
               function of the job.

               Managers, supervisors, and Human Resources must review each position
               description to determine if driving is an essential function of the job prior to
               posting job the announcement. Limiting driving as an essential job function
               broadens the pool of qualified applicants, allowing a more diverse,
               equitable, and inclusive workforce.

       H.      Minimum driver requirements

               To drive any motor vehicle on state business, a driver must:
Page 3 of 10                 I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles          Effective: 10/29/2024
               1.    Be 18 years or older, legally responsible for their actions and
                     contracts, and subject to OYA’s direction and control;

               2.    Hold an acceptable driver’s license;

                     An acceptable driver’s license is a regular, temporary, or
                     commercial license that is lawful, current, and valid.

               3.    Qualify to drive under this policy and any rules or policies of the
                     State of Oregon; and

               4.    Have permission from OYA to drive.

       I.      Operating state-owned vehicles:

               1.    Generally, only state employees are authorized to operate state
                     vehicles.

               2.    OYA volunteers may occasionally operate state vehicles under
                     these circumstances:

                     a)     The appropriate supervisor/manager has verified a business
                            need and approved of the vehicle use in writing; and

                     b)     The volunteer meets the minimum driver requirements listed
                            in section H above.

               3.    Staff may transport people or things to the extent needed to
                     accomplish state business. Prior authorization from the staff
                     member’s supervisor/manager is required for passengers who are
                     not state employees or youth (including observers, minors, pets, or
                     family members). Such approval must comply with DAS rule OAR
                     125-155-0420 (Passengers).

                     Transporting youth is addressed in OYA policies II-A-3.1 (Facility
                     Youth Transports and Escorted Trips) and III-D-2.1 (Youth
                     Transports and Escorts within the Community).

               4.    Hitchhikers are not allowed in any state vehicle or private vehicle
                     on state business.

       J.      Twelve-passenger vans

               1.    In an effort to reduce the rollover hazards of vans designed to carry
                     12 passengers, OYA requires compliance with the following
                     directives.

                     a)     Roof-top carriers must not be used on vans.

                     b)     Regardless of van capacity, no more than 12 people (total of
                            staff and youth) may be transported per van.


Page 4 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles         Effective: 10/29/2024
               2.     Supervisors/Managers must ensure all staff who operate such vans
                      are trained using the OYA Training Academy curriculum.

       K.      Staff must follow all traffic laws and ordinances while driving during state
               business.

               1.     Individuals are personally responsible for traffic tickets, citations,
                      and fines imposed while operating a state vehicle.

               2.     Approved automobile safety restraints must be operational at all
                      times, unmodified, and used by the driver and all passengers.

               3.     Drivers must not consume alcohol in vehicles nor operate a vehicle
                      under the influence of intoxicants. Alcohol must not be transported
                      in a state vehicle.

               4.     Drivers must not transport weapons, illegal drugs, or contraband of
                      any kind in state vehicles except as necessary to carry out their
                      assigned duties of official state business.

       L.      Vehicle logs

               1.     State vehicle use must be documented in the trip mileage log
                      (YA 0029) when driving outside the official workstation (facility or
                      office).

               2.     OYA assistant directors must designate a custodian of each state-
                      owned vehicle within their purview.

                      The vehicle custodian must review vehicle mileage logs every 90
                      days. A notation of the custodian’s review and whether the vehicle
                      use complied with state and OYA policy must be made on the log.

                      a)      Potential misuse of the vehicle noted during the vehicle log
                              review must be reported to the appropriate assistant director.

                      b)      Vehicle mileage logs must be retained by the custodian. The
                              logs must be destroyed four years after their creation.

               3.     The vehicle custodian must send copies of their vehicle mileage log
                      reviews to the appropriate assistant director on a quarterly basis.

       M.      Day use

               “Day use” means the driver of a state vehicle is not staying away overnight
               due to state business.

               1.     During day use, the driver may only travel for state business. No
                      personal business is allowed.

               2.     The state vehicle must not be used to reach personal recreational
                      activity sites, personal appointments, grooming or fitness facilities,
Page 5 of 10                  I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles         Effective: 10/29/2024
                      or personal visits; or for transportation of, or errands for, friends or
                      relatives.

               3.     Staff may stop for food or breaks at sites reasonably near to their
                      direct business destination route.

       N.      Overnight use

               “Overnight use” means the driver of a state vehicle is staying overnight on
               state business.

               During overnight use, state vehicles may be used for staffs’ daily
               necessities. The minimum necessary use of the state vehicle is permitted
               to meet drivers’ and passengers’ normal daily needs. Such travel must be
               within the local vicinity of the direct travel route or of the overnight
               assignment, and during reasonable hours.

               The driver may travel to:

               1.     Restaurants, stores, etc. for meals, breaks, and personal needs;

               2.     Facilities for grooming, medical treatment, fitness, or laundry; and

               3.     Recreational activity sites such as theaters, parks, or friends’ or
                      relatives’ homes.

       O.      A person may lose permission to drive state vehicles if the person:

               1.     Commits a driving-related offense or violation; or

               2.     Violates this policy.

       P.      Driver assessment and training

               The following standards apply to staff whose position descriptions include
               driving as a part of their job function and staff whose position descriptions
               include driving as an essential job function.

               1.     Prior to employment, Human Resources must assess and review
                      the applicant’s driving record, and verify current driver license
                      status via OYA form YA 8008 (Application for Employment –
                      Driving Record Certification). All employment offers must be
                      contingent upon proof of an acceptable driving record.

               2.     A staff member must immediately report to the staff member’s
                      supervisor/manager (no later than the next working day) if the staff
                      member’s driver’s license is suspended or restricted, and decline
                      any work-related requests to operate a motor vehicle. Upon notice,
                      supervisors/managers must temporarily suspend the staff
                      member’s work-related driving privilege and contact Human
                      Resources to determine appropriate action.


Page 6 of 10                 I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles          Effective: 10/29/2024
               3.    All new OYA staff must complete a defensive driver training during
                     their first year of employment with OYA.

                     a)     The OYA Training Academy must provide a driver safety and
                            use of state-owned vehicle course.

                     b)     A refresher course may be taken as determined by the staff
                            member’s supervisor/manager.

       Q.      Vehicle procurement

               1.    An assistant director may authorize procurement of a state vehicle
                     for offices or facilities under the assistant director's purview.

               2.    State vehicles may be assigned to OYA or to an OYA staff member
                     on a permanent basis when extended and continuous use of a
                     motor vehicle is required, and use will exceed the minimum monthly
                     mileage requirement (see section R below).

               3.    Vehicles may be reserved in advance from the state motor pool by
                     contacting the motor pool dispatcher for temporary use.

       R.      Minimum mileage requirements

               Each OYA regular fueled and hybrid vehicle must meet a minimum
               monthly mileage requirement to ensure the vehicle is used in an efficient
               and cost-effective way. Because of their limited range and lack of refueling
               infrastructure, compressed natural gas, hydrogen powered, and electric
               vehicles are exempt from minimum mileage requirements.

               1.    OYA regular fueled and hybrid vehicles must be driven at least 600
                     miles per month.

               2.    Management staff may request an exemption from the minimum
                     monthly mileage requirement in writing through the OYA facilities
                     manager.

               3.    The below-listed criteria may be considered by the OYA facilities
                     manager when reviewing a minimum mileage requirement
                     exemption request:

                     a)     The vehicle requires specific identification or has special
                            safety considerations for youth transports, site visits, or
                            home visits;

                     b)     The vehicle has a special modification, carries equipment, or
                            carries property required to conduct the work tasks of the
                            agency;

                     c)     The vehicle supports services to a remote facility, remote
                            area, or for a seasonal setting; or


Page 7 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles        Effective: 10/29/2024
                     d)     The vehicle is required for circumstances not listed above.

               4.    After consultation with the appropriate assistant director, the OYA
                     facilities manager will forward the exemption request to DAS Fleet
                     and Parking Services for final determination.

               5.    Removing vehicles that do not meet the minimum mileage
                     requirement or exemption

                     a)     The vehicle user may be allowed six months to raise the
                            vehicle mileage to or above the minimum.

                     b)     If the vehicle's minimum mileage is not met within the six-
                            month period, the vehicle must be reassigned to a work area
                            that can meet the minimum mileage requirement, or the
                            vehicle must be returned to DAS Fleet and Parking Services.

               6.    Nonexempt under-minimum-mileage vehicles may not be replaced.

       S.      Vehicle storage

               1.    Staff must store state vehicles at sites owned, leased, or controlled
                     by the state except during travel or for other business purposes
                     with the approval of a supervisor/manager.

               2.    When possible, a state vehicle stored at any other location must be
                     parked off the public street in a reasonably secure setting.

       T.      Vehicle maintenance

               Maintaining state vehicles in good working order is an essential
               component of vehicle safety.

               1.    Staff must not operate a vehicle that needs repair, or is damaged,
                     to the extent that it is unsafe to drive.

               2.    Staff must adhere to DAS maintenance schedules.

               3.    Supervisors/Managers must ensure that staff complete a monthly
                     State Vehicle Inspection Report Checklist (YA 0030) for all
                     vehicles.

               4.    Supervisors/Managers must coordinate vehicle repairs or
                     maintenance with state motor pool. Service provided by private
                     repair shops must be authorized in advance by the state motor
                     pool.

               5.    Supervisors/Managers are responsible for maintaining the interior
                     and exterior of the vehicle in good repair and clean condition.

               6.    Damage to state-owned vehicles as a result of vandalism must be
                     reported immediately to the supervisor/manager, who will contact
Page 8 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles       Effective: 10/29/2024
                     the OYA risk management coordinator, the state motor pool, and
                     local law enforcement.

               7.    The DAS motor pool credit card use is restricted to fuel and oil
                     purchases, preauthorized service work, and emergency repairs as
                     specified in the vehicle information packet.

                     The credit card may only be used for the state vehicle to which the
                     card is assigned.

               8.    Purchase of vehicle supplies such as tires, batteries, antifreeze and
                     similar items must be through regular state contracts, SPOTS
                     cards, or purchase orders.

        U.     Accident reporting and review

               1.    Following an accident, staff are cautioned not to discuss the
                     accident with anyone except the police, state officials, or a state
                     risk management representative.

                     The driver must complete the following forms for every accident,
                     regardless of damage or cost, and forward them to the appropriate
                     supervisor/manager who will review and forward the documentation
                     to the central risk management coordinator within five working days
                     of the date of the accident.

                     a)     For accidents occurring in state vehicles staff must
                            complete:

                            (1)    A Risk Management Accident Report Packet (found in
                                   the vehicle glove compartment); and

                            (2)    A YA 8300 (Incident/Accident/Hazard Report).

                            (3)    If staff is injured, staff must complete an Injured
                                   Worker’s Packet.

                     b)     For accidents occurring in personal vehicles while
                            completing state business:

                            (1)    Staff must complete OYA form YA 8300.

                            (2)    Staff must also complete the Injured Worker’s Packet
                                   if injured.

               2.    Staff must promptly report to their supervisor/manager any vehicle
                     accident, citation or warning, or incident that occurs while driving a
                     state-issued or personal vehicle in the performance of state
                     business.

                     The supervisor/manager, Human Resources staff, and the staff
                     member who was in the accident must promptly review all such
Page 9 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles         Effective: 10/29/2024
                      incidents and document the outcome of the review in the staff
                      member’s supervisory file. The appropriate assistant director must
                      be notified of such review and its outcome.

                3.    The risk management coordinator must:

                      a)     Maintain the agency repository of data relating to vehicle
                             claims, citations, and citizen complaints;

                      b)     Report citations and citizen complaints to the appropriate
                             assistant director and supervisor/manager, and track
                             process to closure; and

                      c)     Provide vehicle reports annually to the OYA safety manager.

                4.    Human Resources will work with the risk management coordinator
                      to distribute accident, injury, citation and citizen complaint data.

       V.       The OYA safety manager must develop strategies to improve vehicle
                safety and prevent accidents.

       W.       Staff response to roadside emergencies

                A roadside emergency is an obvious accident or breakdown that leaves a
                vehicle's occupants dangerously stranded. Someone just hitchhiking or
                asking for a ride, or someone in a city with a mechanical breakdown are
                not roadside emergencies.

                1.    Staff must not stop to give emergency aid while transporting youth.
                      Staff may call 9-1-1 or use a state mobile communication device to
                      call for assistance.

                2.    Rendering aid is purely voluntary. Staff are not urged or expected
                      to render aid. A staff member should do only what they are willing
                      and trained or experienced to do.

                3.    Staff may render reasonable aid to a roadside emergency by using
                      a state mobile communication device to call for aid. If necessary,
                      the state vehicle may be used to transport someone to the nearest
                      telephone, shelter, repair service or emergency medical provider.
                      State first aid kits and blankets may be used.

                4.    Staff may use a state vehicle to transport an injured staff member
                      or youth to emergency medical care. Traffic laws must be obeyed.
                      A state vehicle must not be used for transport unnecessarily or
                      when appropriate professional emergency services are available.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 10 of 10                I-C-2.0 Use of State-owned Vehicles       Effective: 10/29/2024
