                                OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                           Policy Statement
                             Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)
 Subject:
 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                      Supersedes:            Effective Date:    Date of Last
                                                                                         Review:
 E: Programming – 6.0                     II-E-6.0 (6/21)   10/26/2023
                                                                          10/26/2025
                                          II-E-6.0 (6/16)
                                          II-E-6.0 (12/12)
                                          II-E-6.0 (10/10)
 Related             ORS 182.515 –182.525 (Evidence-based Programs)
 Standards           ORS 419C.486 (Consideration of recommendations of committing
 and                  court; case planning)
 References:         ORS 420A.125 (Adjudicated youth; intakes assessments;
                      reformation; placement)
                     ORS 420A.135 Secure regional youth facilities
                     ORS 420A.145 Regional youth accountability camps
                     ORS 420A.155 Regional residential academies
                     OAR 309-019 (Out-patient Substance Use Disorders and Problem
                      Gambling Treatment and Recovery Services)
                     Performance-based Standards (PbS) Juvenile Correction and
                      Detention Facilities Programming
                     Diagnostic and Statistical Manual Fifth Edition (DSM 5)
                     OYA policy: I-A-11.0 (Assessment, Multidisciplinary Teams, and
                      Case Planning)
                     JJIS forms: JJIS OYA 3002CP (Comprehensive Case Plan)
                     JJIS assessments: JJIS Risk/Needs Assessment
                      OYA 4465 (Youth SUD Screening and Diagnostic Assessment)
                      OYA 4466 (Youth ASAM Continued Services Criteria)
                      OYA 4468 (SUD Treatment Summary and Discharge Plan)
 Related             FAC II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA
 Procedures:           Facilities
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Development Services Assistant
 Director                                      _______________________
                                               Joseph O’Leary, Director
I.      PURPOSE:
        This policy outlines the type of substance use assessment, treatment curriculum,
        and treatment dosage OYA staff must use with youth in OYA facilities.
II.     POLICY DEFINITIONS:
        Assessment: A process of evaluating, diagnosing, and determining an
        appropriate level of intervention based on information obtained from the youth in

Page 1 of 5     II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities       Effective: 10/26/2023
        a personal interview and from other sources, which may include substance use
        screening and assessment instruments.

        Case plan: A formal plan with prescribed interventions and documentation
        requirements and a tool to assist staff in managing cases, setting goals and
        reviewing youth interventions and progress. Case plans are created and
        maintained in the Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS).

        Skill development: A process for improving a person's abilities in the areas of
        problem-solving, emotion regulation, and pro-social interaction.

        Substance use treatment: Interventions that include evidence-based curricula
        to treat substance use disorders and promote long-term recovery.

        Treatment: The coordinated provision of services designed to produce a
        planned outcome in a person's behavior, attitude or general condition. Treatment
        is based on a thorough assessment of factors contributing to the attitude,
        condition or behavior.

III.    POLICY:

        OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
        initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
        environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
        bias.

        OYA’s work with youth includes protecting the public by ensuring youth
        accountability, promoting positive change, developing and improving skills, and
        reducing recidivism. Consistent with best practice, assessment identifies key risk
        and protective factors. Psychological, sociological, cultural, and other factors are
        considered during assessment in addition to underlying reasons for risky
        behavior. An essential part of the assessment process is to appropriately
        safeguard against making inappropriate referrals and duplicating or
        unnecessarily restricting placements. Staff must be aware of and remove barriers
        to treatment or participation in treatment for youth from communities that have
        historically been underserved.

        Youth with untreated substance use problems have been found to return to
        substance use and illegal activity at higher rates than youth who have been
        treated. This policy provides a continuum of evidence-based response to the
        needs of youth who have substance use involvement associated with delinquent
        behavior.

IV.     GENERAL STANDARDS:

        A.     Assessment

               1.     Upon a youth’s initial intake admission to OYA, a certified alcohol
                      drug counselor (CADC), CADC candidate, or licensed mental
                      health professional with at least 60 hours of substance use
                      treatment specific education must be assigned to complete the
                      substance use assessment.

Page 2 of 5     II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/26/2023
                     a)       The assessor must complete a Brief Bio-social Gambling
                              Screen (BBGS).

                     b)       The assessor must document the BBGS results on JJIS
                              assessment OYA 4465, Question 4.

              2.     OYA substance use assessment must conform to the standards of
                     substance use assessment set forth by the Oregon Health
                     Authority, Addictions and Mental Health Division, in chapter 309 of
                     the Oregon Administrative Rules.

              3.     Within 30 days of admission into an intake unit, youth must be
                     administered a TCU 5 screening tool. If a full SUD assessment is
                     warranted, it must be completed within that 30-day period.

              4.     Full comprehensive assessments as identified above must not be
                     conducted more frequently than once per 24-month period unless a
                     significant change in substance use has been identified.

                     If less than 24 months have elapsed since the most recent
                     assessment, a brief addendum assessment using the Build and
                     Base function in JJIS on the most recent assessment must be
                     completed to reflect any of the youth’s changes.

              5.     JJIS assessment OYA 4466 Youth ASAM Continued Services
                     Criteria must be completed at least every 90 days for youth
                     engaged in substance use treatment.

        B.    Treatment matching

              1.     Treatment matching must emphasize matching level of service to
                     the individual youth’s American Society of Addiction Medicine
                     (ASAM) level of need.

              2.     Youth returning to close custody due to parole violations must be
                     reassessed and matched to the appropriate treatment.

              3.     Treatment matching based on new information

                     Youth may be re-assessed if additional information becomes
                     available. A youth’s case plan for substance use treatment must
                     reflect current information.

        C.    Treatment

              1.     A youth’s participation in substance use treatment is voluntary.
                     Refer to facilitywide procedure FAC II-E-6.0 regarding
                     documentation of youth consent and non-compliance process.

              2.     Treatment recommendations must be assessment-driven and
                     individualized to the youth’s needs.


Page 3 of 5    II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/26/2023
              3.     Substance use treatment must not begin until a substance use
                     assessment has been completed and the substance use domain is
                     open in the youth’s case plan.

              4.     The initiation of treatment must begin at the earliest possible time
                     after the youth’s placement at a designated facility, and based on
                     the recommendations of the OYA 4465.

              5.     Youth must have equal access to treatment services regardless of
                     crime committed or legal status.

              6.     Substance use treatment curricula must be reviewed and approved
                     by OYA’s Clinical Team prior to use with youth.

              7.     OYA substance use treatment must complement other OYA-
                     approved interventions to provide a youth with the necessary tools
                     to support healthy development so the youth may live a productive
                     and crime-free life.

              8.     The core curriculum for OYA substance use programs must be
                     augmented by and integrated with cognitive-behavioral treatment to
                     further address high-risk behaviors, beliefs, and peer associations.

              9.     Participation in substance use treatment must not be determined by
                     the facility’s behavior management system, or the youth’s past
                     behavioral issues. Staff must not prevent a youth from participating
                     in treatment as a consequence for a behavior violation unrelated to
                     the treatment program.

        D.    Community Transition

              A CADC, CADC candidate, or licensed mental health professional with at
              least 60 hours of substance use treatment specific education must ensure
              the following documents are available to assist in community placement.

              1.     A treatment summary and discharge plan (OYA 4468) of the
                     youth’s progress in substance use treatment documenting
                     continuum of care recommending referrals for the youth’s ongoing
                     treatment or support.

              2      A relapse prevention plan created and signed by the youth with the
                     support of the treatment provider that outlines struggles, triggers,
                     high-risk situations, coping skills, support systems and plans, and
                     dealing with setbacks.

        E.    Program Evaluation

              1.     OYA must measure core competencies related to recovery from a
                     substance use disorder. The competency-based evaluation system
                     must integrate the following three components:

                     a)       Evidence-based programming and its evaluation;

Page 4 of 5    II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/26/2023
                     b)       Coordination of the OYA RNA assessment instrument with
                              program interventions and evaluation of those interventions;
                              and

                     c)       Use of a standardized case planning form.

              2.     Programs and individual youth progress must be measured using
                     the following in a three-level competency evaluation process:

                     a)       Pre- and post-testing, when available;

                     b)       Staff ratings of generally observed behavioral improvements;
                              and

                     d)       JPPO ratings of demonstrated behavior in the community.

V.      LOCAL PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 5 of 5    II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/26/2023
