                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                             Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Attorney General Opinions and Advice
 Section – Policy Number:                      Supersedes:         Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                                                                       Revision:
 A: General Administration – 3.0               I-A-3.0 (06/13) 01/08/2016
                                                                                       10/23/2023
                                               I-A-3.0 (08/05)                         Review:
                                               I-A-3.0 (07/02)        10/23/2025
 Related             ORS 180.060 (Powers and duties of Attorney General)
 Standards           OYA policy: I-A-4.0 (Tort Liability and Claims)
 and                  I-E-1.2 (Response to Subpoenas)
 References:          I-E-2.6 (Second Look Hearings)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                 Approved:
 Public Policy and Government                  _______________________
 Relations Manager                             Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy describes OYA’s process for accessing the Attorney General’s legal
       services.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       State agencies are required by law to obtain legal advice through the Department
       of Justice (DOJ), and are prohibited from using public funds to obtain legal
       advice except through DOJ. OYA’s use of Attorney General legal services will be
       accomplished in the most timely, effective, and cost-efficient manner possible.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Approval for contact

               1.     Staff must contact and obtain approval from the public policy and
                      government relations manager before seeking advice or legal
                      representation from the Attorney General’s office.




Page 1 of 3                 I-A-3.0 Attorney General Opinions and Advice             Effective: 01/08/2016
              2.    The public policy and government relations manager has
                    authorized staff contact with the Attorney General’s office, as
                    follows.

                    a)       Central Business Services staff for routine employment,
                             procurement, and contract issues, as defined by the
                             assistant director, business services.

                             Tort claims and lawsuits are not considered routine
                             employment or contract issues and must be forwarded to the
                             public policy and government relations manager.

                    b)       Central Office Community Services staff to discuss
                             contested case hearings (foster care certification).

                    c)       Rules and policy coordinator to discuss administrative rule
                             and policy development, review, or repeal.

                    d)       The agency Second Look coordinator for Second Look
                             hearing requests. See OYA policy I-E-2.6 Second Look
                             Hearings for more information.

                    e)       All other inquiries must go through the public policy and
                             government relations manager.

       B.     Evaluating the need for legal advice or opinion

              1.    In order to ensure the most cost-effective use of Attorney General
                    services, staff must:

                    a)       Determine whether all existing OYA resources, including
                             past discussions (internal and with Attorney General staff),
                             Attorney General opinions on related issues, have been
                             explored;

                    b)       Determine the priority level of the request within the work
                             unit/division;

                    c)       Gather all pertinent background information including history,
                             why the assistance is needed, and if there is a particular
                             policy direction OYA is considering;

                    d)       Clearly articulate the OYA timelines and advice
                             expectations; and

                    e)       Maintain a historical record of all requests, responses and
                             decisions in a confidential manner.

              2.    The public policy and government relations manager must review
                    all requests and decide the level of legal analysis needed prior to
                    asking for a legal review.


Page 2 of 3              I-A-3.0 Attorney General Opinions and Advice    Effective: 01/08/2016
              3.     The public policy and government relations manager must maintain
                     a central electronic repository of formal and informal legal opinions
                     or general directives that affect overall agency practices or policies,
                     and final documentation of any rulings that affect the agency. Staff
                     who receive such documents must forward a copy for placement in
                     the repository or contact the public policy and government relations
                     to determine whether the information should be retained in the
                     repository.

       C.     Verification of services

              The public policy and government relations manager must monitor status
              of requests, timeliness, and cost of work performed by Attorney General
              staff. The public policy and government relations manager must work with
              appropriate offices/work units to review requests, trends, increases in
              costs, and quality of services.

       D.     Confidentiality

              a)     All discussions about legal matters with the Attorney General’s
                     office are privileged and exempt from public disclosure.

              b)     All discussion, opinions, and advice must be kept confidential
                     unless determined to be appropriate to release by an assistant
                     director or deputy director, or their designee.

                     Forwarding emails or other documents containing legal discussions
                     and advice outside of OYA is prohibited.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3            I-A-3.0 Attorney General Opinions and Advice      Effective: 01/08/2016
