                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                              Part I – Administrative Services

   Subject: Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse and
   Sexual Harassment
   Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                      Revision/Review:
   A: General Administration – 10.0            I-A-10.0 (10/21)     09/24/2025
                                               I-A-10.0 (07/17)                       None
                                               I-A-10.0 (12/14)
                                               I-A-10.0 (7/14)
                                               I-A-10.0 (1/13)
                                               I-A-10.0 (12/10)
                                               II-B-4.0 (10/05)
   Related              Public Law 108-79 Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) of 2003
   Standards            28 CFR Part 115 National Standards to Prevent, Detect, and Respond to Prison
                         Rape Under PREA
   and                  National Commission on Correctional Health Care, Standards for Health
   References:           Services in Juvenile Detention and Confinement Facilities,
                         Y-B-06 (Procedure in the Event of Sexual Assault)
                        American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile Correctional
                         Facilities; 5-JCF-3D-02 through 5-JCF-3D-09 (Sexual Abuse and Assault
                         (PREA)); 5-JCF-5C-51 (Sexual Assault)
                        Performance-based Standards (PbS), Juvenile Correction and Detention
                         Facilities; Safety
                        DAS Policy 50.010.03: Maintaining a Professional Workplace
                        Attachment A (OYA Contract Requirements Regarding Sexual Abuse
                         Prevention and Response)
                        Youth Safety Guide
                        OYA policy: 0-2.3 (Mandatory Reporting of Abuse)
                          I-A-10.1 (Meeting LGBTQ+ Youth Needs)
                          I-E-1.0 (Director’s Incident Notification and Report)
                          I-E-4.0 (Incident Reviews)
                          II-A-1.2 (Preserving Chain of Evidence)
                          II-B-2.1 (Youth Behavior Management)
                          II-D-1.0 (Facility Health Services)
                          II-D-2.2 (Suicide Prevention in Close-custody Facilities)
                          II-F-1.1 (Youth Grievance Process - Facility)
                          II-F-3.4 (Youth Use of Telephone)
                          III-A-1.0 (Youth Incident Reports - Community)
                          III-B-4.0 (Youth Rights and Grievances in the Community)
                        OYA forms: YA 1958 (Facility First Responders to Sexual Abuse Checklist)
                          YA 1959 (Facility SARRT Sexual Abuse Incident Checklist)
                          YA 4033 (Intake Close-custody Youth Sexual Safety Education)
                          YA 4037 (Facility Staffing Plan PREA Review)
                          YA 4452 (Psychology Progress Report)
                          YA 4453 (Psychiatric Progress Report)
                          YA 8037 (PREA Questionnaire)
   Related              FAC I-A-10.0 Monitoring Youth for Retaliation
   Procedures:          FAC I-E-4.0 Youth Incident Report (YIR)
                        FAC I-A-10.0(b) OYA VSAB Placement Tool
                        HS I-A-10.0 Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Assault




Page 1 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
      Policy Owner:                              Approved:
      Deputy Director
                                                 _____________________________
                                                 Mike Tessean, Director

I.       PURPOSE:

         This policy provides guidelines for staff to prevent, detect, and respond to all forms
         of sexual abuse and sexual harassment within OYA facilities and community
         placements. It also complies with the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) of 2003
         and related national standards.

II.      POLICY DEFINITIONS:

         Executive team: An executive group that provides oversight of agency operations.

         Gender nonconforming: A person whose appearance or manner does not conform
         to traditional societal gender expectations.

         Institutional employer: A prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility,
         juvenile facility, or other “institution” as that term is defined in the Civil Rights of
         Institutionalized Persons Act (CRIPA), 42 U.S.C. 1997 et seq. to include state
         facilities for persons who are mentally ill, disabled, or retarded, or chronically ill or
         handicapped; residential care or treatment facilities for juveniles; and facilities that
         provide skilled nursing, intermediate or long-term care, or custodial or residential
         care. See 42 U.S.C. 1997(1)

         Intersex: A person whose sexual or reproductive anatomy or chromosomal pattern
         does not seem to fit typical definitions of male or female. Intersex medical conditions
         are sometimes referred to as disorders of sex development.

         LGBTQ+: People who have identified themselves or may be perceived as lesbian,
         gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, gender diverse, gender fluid or
         intersex.

         Mental health practitioner: A qualified mental health professional (QMHP),
         psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner, psychiatrist, or psychologist.

         PREA: Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003.

         PREA compliance manager (PCM): Management staff designated by the
         superintendent or camp director with sufficient time and authority to coordinate the
         facility’s efforts to comply with the PREA standards.

         PREA coordinator: A full-time OYA staff member whose responsibilities include
         developing, implementing, and overseeing the agency’s plan for zero tolerance of
         sexual abuse and sexual harassment.

         Retaliation: When a youth or staff injures, harms, or intimidates a person who has
         reported sexual abuse/harassment, has cooperated in an investigation, or is the
         alleged victim of the sexual abuse/harassment; or any attempts to do so.
Page 2 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       Sexual abuse: Includes (1) sexual abuse of a youth by another youth; and
       (2) sexual abuse of a youth by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer.

           (1) Sexual abuse of a youth by another youth includes any of the following acts if
               the victim does not consent, is coerced into such act by overt or implied
               threats of violence, or is unable to consent or refuse:
               a) Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus,
                   including penetration, however slight;
               b) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
               c) Penetration of the anal or genital opening of another person, however
                   slight, by a hand, finger, object, or other instrument; and
               d) Any other intentional touching, either directly or through the clothing, of the
                   genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks of another
                   person, excluding contact incidental to a physical altercation.
           (2) Sexual abuse of a youth by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer includes
               any of the following acts, with or without consent of the youth:
               a) Contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus,
                  including penetration, however slight;
               b) Contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, or anus;
               c) Contact between the mouth and any body part where the staff member,
                  contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual
                  desire;
               d) Penetration of the anal or genital opening, however slight, by a hand,
                  finger, object, or other instrument, that is unrelated to official duties or
                  where the staff member, contractor, or volunteer has the intent to abuse,
                  arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
               e) Any other intentional contact, either directly or through the clothing, of or
                  with the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or the buttocks, that is
                  unrelated to official duties, or where the staff member, contractor, or
                  volunteer has the intent to abuse, arouse, or gratify sexual desire;
               f) Any attempt, threat, or request by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer
                  to engage in the activities described in paragraphs (a)-(e) of this section;
               g) Any display by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer of his or her
                  uncovered genitalia, buttocks, or breast in the presence of a youth; and
               h) Voyeurism by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer is an invasion of
                  privacy of a youth by a staff member, contractor, or volunteer for reasons
                  unrelated to official duties, such as peering at a youth who is using a
                  toilet in his or her cell to perform bodily functions; requiring a youth to
                  expose his or her buttocks, genitals, or breasts; or taking images of all or
                  part of a youth’s naked body or of a youth performing bodily functions.

       Sexual harassment: Includes -
       (1) Repeated and unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors; or verbal
       comments, gestures, or actions of a derogatory or offensive sexual nature by one
       youth directed toward another; and
       (2) Repeated verbal comments or gestures of a sexual nature to a youth by a staff
       member, contractor, or volunteer, including demeaning references to gender,
       sexually suggestive or derogatory comments about body or clothing, or obscene
       language or gestures.


Page 3 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       Sexual abuse response and resource coordinator (SARRC): Staff, preferably
       management, designated by the facility superintendent, camp director, or assistant
       director who coordinates responses, reporting, and follow-up to youth sexual abuse
       incidents.
       Sexual Abuse Response and Resource Team (SARRT): A team of individuals
       who work collaboratively in response to sexual abuse. The team is based on a core
       membership of the PCM, SARRC, youth’s OYA primary case manager and QMHP.

       Sexually aggressive youth: A youth committing sexual abuse against another
       youth, or coercing sex from another youth in exchange for protection or other favors.

       Volunteers: Persons, who, on a non-paid basis, provide services to OYA, including:
       (a) Mentors: Mature, trustworthy and experienced persons who encourage a youth’s
       personal growth, offer supportive friendships, act as positive role models and
       promote a constructive attitude and law-abiding behavior.
       (b) Work Readiness Coaches: Persons who teach particular skills/tasks related to
       employment, or provide practical work experience.
       (c) Students or Interns: Persons enrolled in a college or university-sanctioned
       program who earn college credit for their activities.
       (d) Tutors: Persons who work with individual youth to improve the youth's academic
       performance.
       (e) Religious Services Assistants: Persons who assist with religious programming or
       services.

       Vulnerable youth: A youth who is at high risk to become a victim of sexual abuse
       by another youth due to characteristics related to age, physical stature, criminal
       history, and physical or mental disabilities, or past history of being victimized.

       Youth: A person in the legal and physical custody of the OYA, either in an OYA
       facility or placed in the community under supervision, or a person in the legal
       custody of the Department of Corrections and the physical custody of OYA.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has a zero-tolerance standard toward all forms of youth sexual abuse and
       sexual harassment. This policy provides uniform guidelines and procedures to
       reduce the risk of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in OYA facilities, field
       offices, and community residential programs.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and initiative,
       with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive environment for
       youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and bias. Data shows
       youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately represented in the juvenile
       justice system. While OYA is only one part of that system, we play a critical role in
       addressing the historical and systemic inequities it perpetuates. OYA must ensure
       the sexual safety of all youth. Staff must be aware of possible bias when responding
       to allegations of abuse, and ensure responses are carried out in an equitable
       manner regardless of who the incident reporter, alleged victim, or alleged perpetrator
       is.

       All staff will be trained to recognize the signs of sexual abuse and sexual
       harassment and to understand their responsibility in the prevention, detection,
Page 4 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       response, and reporting of alleged sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
       Professional, trained staff will help prevent sexual abuse by acting in the following
       manner during the performance of their duties:
       • Knowing and enforcing rules regarding sexual behavior;
       • Maintaining professionalism at all times, including maintaining a sexual-
          harassment-free professional workplace; and
       • Treating any allegation of sexual abuse or sexual harassment seriously by
          following appropriate reporting procedures.

       Supervision of youth is necessary to protect them from sexual abuse and sexual
       harassment. Sound correctional practice includes conducting frequent, random area
       checks, providing direct staff supervision, and having an open line of communication
       that includes positive, supportive, consistent, and accountable behavior and
       expectations.

       Inappropriate sexual behavior is prohibited in OYA facilities and community
       residential programs. Youth who commit any type of behavior violation in OYA
       facilities may be refocused according to OYA policy II-B-2.1 (Youth Behavior
       Management). Behavior violations involving sexual behavior will be assessed by the
       PREA coordinator as potential sexual abuse or sexual harassment cases.

       Staff must be aware of warning signs that might indicate that a youth has been
       sexually abused or is in fear of being sexually abused. Warning signs include, but
       are not limited to:
       • Isolating self from others;
       • Depression;
       • Major changes in behavior, mood, and daily activities;
       • Lashing out at others;
       • Refusing to shower;
       • Suicidal thoughts or actions;
       • Seeking protective custody; and
       • Refusing to leave an isolation room.

       In the event that a youth is alleged to have sexually abused a staff member,
       volunteer, or contractor, the immediate response and preservation of evidence steps
       described in this policy must also be followed. Any health care examination must
       occur in the community.

       Any sexual behavior or act between staff and youth, volunteers and youth, or
       contractors and youth, regardless of consensual status, is prohibited and subject to
       administrative and criminal disciplinary sanctions. Termination is the presumptive
       disciplinary sanction for staff, contractors, or volunteers, who have engaged in
       sexual abuse.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      OYA will respond to, investigate, and support the prosecution of sexual abuse
               in its facilities, field offices, and community placements in partnership with law
               enforcement and the judicial system.


Page 5 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
               1.      Through continual education of staff and youth, OYA increases
                       awareness of safe reporting mechanisms and available services to
                       victims, thereby creating an agency culture that discourages sexual
                       abuse and sexual harassment.

               2.      Through appropriate placement in program, education, work, and
                       housing assignments, and physical plant improvements when feasible,
                       OYA identifies opportunities to separate and carefully monitor both
                       sexually aggressive and vulnerable youth to eliminate sexual abuse
                       and sexual harassment incidents.

               3.      OYA will collect related data and review all sexual abuse and sexual
                       harassment incidents to assist in improving sexual abuse and sexual
                       harassment prevention practices. The PREA coordinator will
                       coordinate the data collection.

               4.      OYA requires that all residential programs contracting with OYA are
                       committed to the elimination of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in
                       their programs by adopting policies and procedures consistent with this
                       OYA policy.

               5.      Contract administrators must ensure contracts with individuals who
                       have direct contact with youth address items listed on
                       Attachment A (Contract Requirements Regarding Sexual Abuse
                       Prevention and Response).

       B.      To ensure OYA does not hire, promote, or enlist services of any person who
               may have direct contact with youth who has engaged in, been convicted of, or
               been civilly or administratively adjudicated for engaging in sexual abuse in a
               confinement setting, or has been convicted of engaging or attempting to
               engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt or implied
               threats of force or coercion or if the victim did not consent or was unable to
               consent or refuse, OYA:

               1.      Conducts both a criminal record check and child abuse registry check
                       on every applicant staff member or contractor who may have direct
                       contact with youth;

               2.      Conducts follow-up criminal record checks on the people listed in
                       paragraph 1 above at least every five years;

               3.      Ensures a criminal record check was completed no more than a year
                       prior to any promotion of a staff member;

               4.      When hiring, makes the best effort to contact all previous institutional
                       employers to obtain information on substantiated allegations of sexual
                       abuse and sexual harassment;

               5.      Considers any incidents of substantiated sexual harassment in
                       determining whether to hire or promote staff, or to enlist the services of
                       any contractor who may have contact with youth;

Page 6 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
               6.      In written applications and through a yearly signed disclosure form,
                       affirms the duty to disclose any such actions;

               7.      Considers omissions regarding such conduct or the provision of false
                       information as grounds for termination; and

               8.      Provides information on substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or
                       sexual harassment involving a former staff member upon receiving a
                       request from an institutional employer, as laws allow.

       C.      Training

               1.      All staff receive instruction related to the prevention, detection,
                       reporting, and investigation of youth sexual abuse and sexual
                       harassment during New Employee Orientation (NEO).

                       The training must include the following topics:

                       a)      OYA's zero-tolerance for sexual abuse and sexual harassment;

                       b)      How staff must prevent, detect, report, and respond to youth
                               sexual abuse and sexual harassment;

                       c)      A youth's right to be free from sexual abuse and sexual
                               harassment;

                       d)      A staff member's and youth's right to be free from retaliation for
                               reporting sexual abuse and sexual harassment incidents;

                       e)      The dynamics of sexual abuse and sexual harassment in
                               juvenile facilities, field offices, and community programs;

                       f)      The common reactions of juvenile victims of sexual abuse and
                               sexual harassment;

                       g)      How to detect and respond to signs of threatened and actual
                               sexual abuse and how to distinguish between consensual
                               sexual contact and sexual abuse between youth;

                       h)      How to avoid inappropriate relationships with youth;

                       i)      How to communicate effectively and professionally with youth,
                               including LGBTQ+, and gender nonconforming youth; and

                       j)      Relevant laws regarding the applicable age of sexual consent.

               2.      In-service training

                       a)      Staff who have direct contact with OYA youth will receive in-
                               service training on preventing, detecting, reporting, and
                               responding to youth sexual abuse and harassment during
                               annual staff updates according to their job classifications.
Page 7 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                       b)      In-service training must be tailored to the gender of youth the
                               staff member has contact with.

               3.      Specialized training

                       a)      If a facility has a Sexual Abuse Response and Resource Team
                               (SARRT), staff who may be team members must complete
                               specialized training specific to sexual abuse responses and
                               SARRT functionality.

                       b)      Professional Standards Office (PSO) investigators must
                               complete specialized training specific to conducting sexual
                               abuse investigations in juvenile justice settings.

                       c)      OYA medical and mental health care practitioners must
                               complete specialized training on the following topics:

                               (1)     How to detect and assess signs of sexual abuse and
                                       sexual harassment;

                               (2)     How to preserve physical evidence of sexual abuse;

                               (3)     How to respond effectively and professionally to juvenile
                                       victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment; and

                               (4)     How and where to report allegations or suspicions of
                                       sexual abuse or sexual harassment.

       D.      Youth education

               1.      Upon a youth’s commitment to OYA custody and any subsequent
                       transfer between close-custody facilities, staff must give the youth the
                       Youth Safety Guide and Reporting Line card the same day they arrive
                       at the facility.

                       The Youth Safety Guide identifies abuse; gives guidelines on how to
                       stay safe; how to report abuse; and what to do if abused. The
                       Reporting Line card provides direct contact information to the
                       Professional Standards Office.

               2.      Staff must document in JJIS that the Youth Safety Guide and
                       Reporting Line card were given and explained to the youth, and the
                       youth indicated an understanding. (JJIS case note – category:
                       Orientation; subcategory: Youth Safety Guide)

               3.      Staff also must provide each facility youth a comprehensive age-
                       appropriate presentation (in-person or electronic) regarding the youth's
                       right to be free from sexual abuse and harassment, free from
                       retaliation for reporting incidents, and how OYA must respond to such
                       incidents.


Page 8 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                       This presentation must be provided within 10 days of a facility youth's
                       commitment to OYA custody. Staff must document on OYA form
                       YA 4033 that the youth viewed the presentation and understood it. The
                       YA 4033 must be distributed and retained according to the form’s
                       instructions.

               4.      All OYA facilities and field offices must have the information described
                       in paragraphs 1 and 2 (above) readily available and displayed for
                       youth.

               5.      Provisions of youth education must include formats accessible to all
                       youth, including those who are limited English proficient, deaf or hard
                       of hearing, blind or have low vision, have limited reading skills, or are
                       otherwise disabled (e.g., intellectual, psychiatric, or speech
                       disabilities).

               6.      All OYA facilities and field offices must provide youth with, or display in
                       an accessible area, mailing addresses and telephone numbers of local,
                       state, or national victim advocacy or rape crisis organizations; OYA
                       safety posters; Reporting Line information posters; and Youth
                       Grievance forms (YA 1300).

E.     Confidentiality

               1.      Staff must notify youth upon initial intake to OYA custody that any
                       report of sexual abuse will be reported to law enforcement or
                       Department of Human Services, Child Protective Services.

               2.      OYA facility medical and mental health practitioners

                       a)      Must notify youth at the initiation of services of their duty to
                               report and the limitations of confidentiality.

                       b)      Must obtain informed consent from youth who are 18 years old
                               or older before reporting information about the youth’ prior
                               sexual victimization that did not happen in an institutional
                               setting.

               3.      Any sexual abuse information received by any staff member must only
                       be disclosed on a need-to-know basis. Information must be shared
                       according to state and federal privacy laws, professional licensure, and
                       ethical standards.

               4.      Youth interviews about sexual abuse incidents must be conducted in
                       safe and private environments.

               5.      Under no circumstances may access to treatment resources be denied
                       a youth who is a victim of sexual abuse because the youth refuses to
                       disclose sexual abuse incident details.



Page 9 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       F.      Youth reporting

               1.      OYA provides multiple ways for youth to report sexual abuse and
                       sexual harassment incidents, retaliation for reporting incidents, and
                       perceived staff neglect or policy violations that may be contributed to
                       sexual abuse or sexual harassment incidents, including:

                       a)      The youth grievance process (see OYA policies II-F-1.1 Youth
                               Grievance Process – Facility, and III-B-4.0 Youth Rights and
                               Grievances in the Community);

                       b)      Access to the confidential OYA Reporting Line 1-800-315-5440
                               (see OYA policy II-F-3.4 Use of Telephone);

                       c)      Regular safety surveys;

                       d)      Confidential access (correspondence, telephonic, or in person)
                               to agencies that provide legal services, including legal aid
                               offices; and

                       e)      Confidential access through correspondence to the Governor’s
                               Constituency Services Office that receives and forwards reports
                               of sexual abuse and sexual harassment to OYA officials,
                               allowing the youth to remain anonymous upon request.

               2.      In OYA facilities, the PREA compliance manager (PCM) must ensure
                       any youth who reports sexual abuse or sexual harassment or
                       cooperates with sexual abuse or sexual harassment investigations is
                       protected from retaliation by other youth or staff.

                       a)      Protection may include:

                               (1)     Housing change;

                               (2)     Facility transfer; and

                               (3)     Emotional support.

                       b)      For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse or sexual
                               harassment, the PCM or designee must monitor the youth’s
                               conduct or treatment to see if there are changes that may
                               suggest possible retaliation by other youth or staff and must act
                               promptly to remedy any such retaliation. (See facilitywide
                               procedure FAC I-A-10.0 Monitoring Youth for Retaliation.)

                               (1)     Monitoring must be documented the youth’s JJIS case
                                       notes. Use the PREA category, subcategory Retaliation
                                       Monitoring.

                               (2)     Monitoring may include reviewing youth behavior
                                       violation incident reports (YIRs), housing or other

Page 10 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                                       program changes, unit log entries, and periodic face-to-
                                       face check-ins with the youth.

                                       Staff may only refocus a youth for a behavior violation
                                       regarding an unfounded allegation if it can be determined
                                       that the youth made the allegation in bad faith.

                               (3)     The PCM or designee must continue such monitoring
                                       beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring indicates
                                       continued need.

               3.      After responding to a facility youth's report of sexual abuse or sexual
                       harassment, the facility’s PCM must ensure the youth is notified
                       whether the allegation has been substantiated, unsubstantiated, or
                       unfounded. All notifications must be documented in the youth’s JJIS
                       case notes, PREA category.

                       a)      If the allegation is substantiated and the perpetrator is a staff
                               member, the PCM or designee must inform the youth of the
                               following when known:

                               (1)     The staff member is no longer assigned to work in the
                                       youth’s housing unit;

                               (2)     The staff member is no longer employed at the facility
                                       where the youth is residing;

                               (3)     The agency learns that the staff member has been
                                       indicted on a charge related to the allegation; or

                               (4)     The agency learns that the staff member has been
                                       convicted on a charge related to the allegation.

                       b)      If the allegation is substantiated and the perpetrator is another
                               youth, the PCM or designee must inform the youth who reported
                               the incident of the following when known:

                               (1)     The agency learns that the alleged perpetrator has been
                                       indicted on a charge related to the allegation; or

                               (2)     The agency learns that the alleged perpetrator has been
                                       convicted on a charge related to the allegation.

               4.      Field supervisors must ensure youth who have reported sexual abuse
                       or sexual harassment incidents while in community placements are
                       notified of the results of related investigations, if the information is
                       available to OYA. Investigations of allegations in the community may
                       be conducted by law enforcement or another government agency that
                       may not share the information with OYA.



Page 11 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       G.      Third-party reporting

               OYA may receive youth-related sexual abuse and sexual harassment reports
               from youth family members or the public. Information regarding the reporting
               process is available on the OYA public Internet website and the Youth Family
               Guides (close-custody youth, and community youth) including:

               1.      Access to the confidential OYA Reporting Line 1-800-315-5440;

               2.      Access to a confidential e-mail contact:
                       professionalstandards.office@oya.state.or.us;

               3.      E-complaint form:
                       https://www.oregon.gov/oya/pso/Pages/OnlineComplaintForm.aspx;

               4.      The youth grievance process; and

               5.      By notifying staff.

       H.      OYA must ensure any staff member who reports youth sexual abuse or
               sexual harassment or cooperates with sexual abuse or sexual harassment
               investigations is protected from retaliation by youth or other staff. Protection
               may include workplace changes, ensuring the subject(s) of the investigation
               cannot contact the staff member, and emotional support.

               For at least 90 days following a report of sexual abuse or sexual harassment,
               the PREA coordinator, in collaboration with the facility’s PCM, must monitor
               the staff’s conduct to see if there are changes that may suggest possible
               retaliation by youth or other staff and must act promptly to remedy any such
               retaliation.

               1.      Monitoring must be documented in the PSO case management system
                       database.

               2.      Monitoring may include reviewing for negative performance reviews,
                       unwarranted reassignments, and periodic face-to-face check-ins with
                       the staff member.

               3.      The PREA coordinator, in collaboration with the facility’s PCM, must
                       continue such monitoring beyond 90 days if the initial monitoring
                       indicates continued need.

        I.     Youth placement in OYA facility program, education, work, housing, and bed
               assignments

               OYA will provide safe program, education, work, housing unit, and bed
               assignments for every youth to reduce the likelihood of sexual abuse while a
               youth is in close custody.

               1.      OYA staff will consider vulnerability to sexual abuse or sexual
                       aggressiveness of each youth at the time of the youth’s admission to

Page 12 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                       close custody and prior to assigning the youth a program, education,
                       work, housing unit, or bed.
                       Sexual abuse vulnerability and aggressiveness will be reviewed during
                       the youth's regularly scheduled Multidisciplinary Team (MDT)
                       meetings.

               2.      Sexually vulnerable youth

                       A mental health practitioner will evaluate a youth within 72 hours of the
                       youth's initial intake to close custody, transfer to another OYA facility
                       and annually, specifically to determine the youth's vulnerability to
                       sexual abuse or sexual harassment as indicated by the following risk
                       factors:

                       a)      Age;

                       b)      Physical size and stature;

                       c)      Intellectual or developmental disabilities;

                       d)      Level of emotional and cognitive development;

                       e)      Mental illness or mental disability;

                       f)      Physical disabilities;

                       g)      Current charges and offense history including sexual offenses;

                       h)      First-time-youth status (first time in OYA custody);

                       i)      Past history of victimization;

                       j)      Any gender nonconforming appearance or manner, or
                               identification as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer,
                               questioning, or intersex (LGBTQ+);

                       k)      The youth’s own perception of vulnerability; and

                       l)      Any other specific information about the youth that may require
                               an increase in supervision, additional safety precautions, or
                               separation from certain other youth.

                       See facilitywide procedure FAC I-A-10.0(b) VSAB Placement Tool for
                       more information.

               3.      Sexually aggressive youth

                       a)      A mental health practitioner will also evaluate a youth within 72
                               hours of the youth's initial intake to close custody, transfer to
                               another OYA facility, and annually, specifically to determine if
                               there are indications that the youth is prone to sexually abusing
                               other youth, including the following:
Page 13 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                               (1)     History of sexually aggressive behavior;

                               (2)     History of violence, especially if related to a sex offense
                                       with same gender victim; and

                               (3)     Antisocial attitudes indicative of sexually aggressive
                                       behavior.

                               See facilitywide procedure FAC I-A-10.0(b) VSAB Placement
                               Tool for more information.

                       b)      LGBTQ+ identification or status may not be considered as an
                               indicator of likelihood of being sexually aggressive.

               4.      A youth who discloses any previously unknown sexual victimization or
                       perpetration must be offered an individual meeting with a mental health
                       practitioner to further assess related treatment and placement needs
                       within 14 days of the disclosure.

                       The mental health practitioner’s meeting must be documented in the
                       following manner and include recommendations about the youth's
                       treatment and placement needs:

                       a)      A case note restricted to the "OYA MH Full Access" group in
                               JJIS; or

                       b)      A YA 4452 (Psychology Progress Report) if completed by a
                               psychologist; or

                       c)      A YA 4453 (Psychiatric Progress Report) if completed by a
                               psychiatrist or psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner.

               5.      Any staff who learns that a youth is subject to a substantial risk of
                       imminent sexual abuse, or is a substantial risk of imminently sexually
                       abusing must immediately ensure the youth's safety, and notify the
                       staff member's supervisor or officer-of-the-day (OD), and a PCM.

V.     Responding to Alleged Youth Sexual Abuse in OYA Facilities

       A.      Each superintendent or camp director must designate a PREA compliance
               manager (PCM) who is responsible for the facility’s compliance with the
               national PREA standards and OYA policies regarding preventing, detecting,
               and responding to sexual abuse and sexual harassment incidents.

       B.      The PCM may designate a Sexual Abuse Response and Resource Team
               (SARRT) to facilitate a coordinated response to sexual abuse.

               The PCM must ensure responses to sexual abuse incidents and
               investigations use a coordinated response that follows established protocols
               described in this policy, local operating protocols, and if appropriate, the
               Facility SARRT Sexual Abuse Incident Checklist (YA 1959).

Page 14 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
       C.      Notification and investigation of sexual abuse in OYA facilities
               1.      If a youth notifies a staff member that the youth has been sexually
                       abused or the staff sees or learns of the abuse, staff must, in the
                       following order, immediately:
                       a)      Ensure the victim is safe and kept separated from the
                               perpetrator.
                       b)      If the incident occurred within 96 hours, secure the incident
                               area(s) and treat it as a crime scene(s) in accordance with OYA
                               policy II-A-1.2 (Preserving Chain of Evidence) until released.
                               (1)     Request that the alleged victim not take any action that
                                       could destroy physical evidence to include brushing
                                       teeth, changing clothes, showering, washing, urinating,
                                       defecating, drinking, or eating.
                               (2)     Ensure that the alleged abuser does not take any action
                                       that could destroy physical evidence to include brushing
                                       teeth, changing clothes, showering, washing, urinating,
                                       defecating, drinking, or eating.
                       c)      Notify their supervisor or officer-of-day (OD).
               2.      The supervisor or OD must verbally notify:
                       a)      The superintendent or camp director;
                       b)      The PCM; and
                       c)      The PSO Chief Investigator.
               3.      The superintendent, camp director, or OD, and the facility SARRC will
                       ensure their local operating protocol is followed.
               4.      Staff responding to sexual abuse incidents may refer to the Facility
                       First Responders to Sexual Abuse Checklist (YA 1958) to help guide
                       them through the appropriate response.
               5.      The staff who saw the incident or to whom the incident was reported
                       will initiate a related Youth Incident Report (YIR).
                       Refer to facilitywide procedure FAC I-E-4.0 (Youth Incident Reports)
                       for YIR instructions.
               6.      Staff must follow mandatory reporting laws regarding child abuse if the
                       victim is less than 18 years old. Refer to OYA policy
                       0-2.3 (Mandatory Reporting of Abuse) for instructions on how to
                       comply with mandatory child abuse reporting.
               7.      The agency’s PREA coordinator will automatically be notified of the
                       incident through the YIR reporting process.




Page 15 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
                   8.        If the victim is under the guardianship of the child welfare system
                             (Department of Human Services - DHS), the PREA coordinator must
                             ensure DHS is notified of the incident.
                   9.        If the victim was committed to OYA through a juvenile court and has an
                             attorney or legal representative on record, the PREA coordinator must
                             ensure that person is notified within 14 days of the sexual abuse
                             allegation.
         D.        Sexual abuse victim services in OYA facilities

                   1.        If the reported incident was a sexually abusive penetration1 that
                             occurred within 96 hours, Health Services staff (if available) must
                             assist in arranging the youth’s medical examination in the local
                             community at a facility equipped to evaluate and treat sexual abuse
                             victims. If Health Services staff are not available, facility staff will
                             arrange the medical examination in the community.

                   2.        Health Services staff must follow Health Services procedure
                             HS I-A-10.0 (Preventing, Responding to Monitoring Sexual
                             Assault/Abuse) when responding to sexual abuse incidents.

                   3.        Prophylactic treatment and follow-up care for sexually transmitted or
                             other communicable diseases must be offered to the victim, as
                             appropriate, and documented.

                   4.        A mental health practitioner must evaluate the victim for crisis
                             intervention counseling and long-term follow-up within 24 hours of the
                             medical examination.

                             a)        The evaluation must include an assessment for potential for
                                       suicide and anxiety disorders, and appropriate treatment needs
                                       to address victimization. (See OYA policy II-D-2.2 Suicide
                                       Prevention in OYA Close-custody Facilities)

                             b)        The evaluation must be documented in the following manner
                                       and include specific recommendations about the youth's
                                       treatment and placement needs:

                                       (1)       A case note restricted to the "OYA MH Full Access"
                                                 group in JJIS;

                                       (2)       A YA 4452 (Psychology Progress Report) if completed by
                                                 a psychologist; or

                                       (3)       A YA 4453 (Psychiatric Progress Report) if completed by
                                                 a psychiatrist or psychiatric mental health nurse
                                                 practitioner.


1 The sexual act included: (1) Contact between the penis and the vagina or the anus; or (2) Contact between the mouth and
  the penis, vagina, or anus; or (3) Penetration of the anal or genital opening by a hand, finger, or other object.

Page 16 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
               5.      The superintendent, camp director, SARRC or PCM, must ensure the
                       sexual abuse victim is reminded of victim rights and advocacy
                       information, and that a qualified victim advocate is available to the
                       sexual abuse victim. The qualified victim advocate may be a qualified
                       agency staff member, or an advocate from a community-based
                       organization.

       E.      Alleged perpetrator services in OYA facilities

               1.      A mental health practitioner must conduct an evaluation of a youth who
                       allegedly perpetrated a sexual abuse against another youth to assess
                       related treatment needs within 60 days of the mental health practitioner
                       learning of the alleged sexual abuse.

               2.      The evaluation must be documented in the following manner and
                       include specific recommendations about the youth's treatment and
                       placement needs:

                       a)      A case note restricted to the "OYA MH Full Access" group in
                               JJIS;

                       b)      A YA 4452 (Psychology Progress Report) if completed by a
                               psychologist; or

                       c)      A YA 4453 (Psychiatric Progress Report) if completed by a
                               psychiatrist or psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner.

       F.      Allegations of sexual abuse in another facility

               1.      Upon receiving an allegation that a youth was sexually abused while
                       housed in another facility, the superintendent/camp director that
                       received the allegation must notify the following entities as soon as
                       possible, but no longer than 72 hours after receiving the allegation:

                       a)      The head of the facility or appropriate office of the agency
                               where the alleged abuse occurred;

                       b)      The other facility’s or office’s investigative agency; and

                       c)      PSO.

               2.      PSO must document the notification in its case management system.

       G.      Sexual abuse incident review

               The superintendent, camp director, or PCM, must ensure an Administrative
               Incident Review Report (YA 0024) is completed within 30 calendar days after
               the conclusion of a sexual abuse investigation whenever the allegation is
               unsubstantiated or substantiated. (See OYA policy I-E-4.0 Incident Reviews)


Page 17 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
VI.    Responding to Alleged Youth Sexual Abuse in the Community

       A.      Notification and investigation of alleged youth sexual abuse in the community

               1.      If a staff member becomes aware of a sexual abuse allegation of a
                       youth on OYA supervision in the community, the staff member must, in
                       the following order, immediately:

                       a)      Ensure the victim is safe and kept separated from the alleged
                               perpetrator;

                       b)      Notify the field supervisor;

                       c)      If the victim is a minor, notify law enforcement or DHS Child
                               Protection Services (see OYA policy 0-2.3 Mandatory Reporting
                               of Abuse); and

                       d)      If the victim is 18 years old or older, notify law enforcement.

               2.      The staff who saw the incident or to whom the incident was reported
                       will initiate a related Youth Incident Report (YIR).

                       Refer to OYA policy III-A-1.0 (Youth Incident Reports – Field) for YIR
                       instructions.

               3.      Staff must follow mandatory reporting laws regarding child abuse if the
                       victim is less than 18 years old. Refer to OYA policy
                       0-2.3 (Mandatory Reporting of Youth Abuse and Child Abuse) for
                       instructions on how to comply with mandatory child abuse reporting.

               4.      The agency’s PREA coordinator will automatically be notified of the
                       incident through the YIR reporting process.

       B.      Victim and alleged perpetrator services for youth in the community

               1.      Appropriate OYA contract administrators must ensure contracted
                       community residential programs have procedures addressing sexual
                       abuse victim services and alleged perpetrator services.

               2.      Field supervisors must ensure OYA youth victims and alleged OYA
                       youth perpetrators receive appropriate health care services in the
                       community if needed or requested.

VII.   Data Collection and Monitoring

       A.      The PREA coordinator must coordinate OYA’s PREA data collection and
               generate any reports needed to comply with national PREA Standards. The
               data will be retained for 20 years after related investigations are completed.

       B.      The PREA coordinator is responsible for monitoring the PREA data and
               alerting the OYA Executive Team of any notable trends.

Page 18 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
VIII.   LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: YES

        Each OYA facility must have a local operating protocol that coordinates actions
        taken among staff first responders, medical and mental health practitioners,
        investigators, and facility leadership in response to an incident of youth sexual
        abuse.




Page 19 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
Attachment A: OYA Contract Requirements Regarding Sexual Abuse Prevention and Response


                Type of Contractor                  Language Required in Contract
                                                    1. Sexual abuse prevention training and reporting required.
                                                    2. Criminal record and child abuse registry checks required;
                                                       update CRC every five years. Language re: zero tolerance of
  Medical Treatment Providers at OYA facilities
                                                       sexual abuse
                                                    3. Completion of a PREA Acknowledgment form prior to contact
                                                       with youth
                                                    1. Sexual abuse reporting required.
  Medical Treatment Providers serving youth         2. Zero tolerance of sexual abuse required.
  outside of OYA facilities (e.g., dentists, ERs,
  opticians)                                        Professional licenses require reporting and criminal records
                                                    checks. Also, they have minimal contact with youth.
                                                    BRS Placements are not subject to the PREA regulations because
                                                    youth are admitted to BRS programs "pursuant to a social
                                                    service system, or for medical purposes, and is beyond the scope
                                                    of these regulations." (28 CFR Part 115 § 115.5 General
                                                    Definitions "juvenile facility.")
                                                    However, DHS and OYA remain committed to the safety of the
  Residential Providers (BRS Medical)               youth in these programs through licensing and review for
                                                    compliance with Oregon Administrative Rules and contracts.
                                                    Therefore, OYA requires:
                                                    1. Sexual abuse reporting.
                                                    2. Zero tolerance of sexual abuse.
                                                    3. Criminal record checks required and updated every five
                                                       years.
  Residential Providers (non-BRS)                   1. Sexual abuse reporting required.
  (e.g., county providers, YCCs)                    2. Zero tolerance of sexual abuse required.
                                                    3. Criminal record and child abuse registry checks required; and
  Youth-specific Residential Providers (non-BRS)       CRC updated every five years.
  [Used on occasional short-term placements
  (under 90 days) to meet targeted needs of a
  specific youth]
                                                    1. Zero tolerance of sexual abuse required.
                                                    2. Criminal record and child abuse registry checks required; and
  Licensed Contractors With Direct Facility Youth      CRC updated at least every five years.
  Contact                                           3. Completion of a PREA Acknowledgment form prior to contact
  (e.g., LCSWs, LPCs, LMFTs)                           with youth
                                                    These contractors already are subject to training and reporting
                                                    requirements as part of their licensure.
  • Unlicensed Contractors With Direct Facility     1. Sexual abuse prevention training and reporting required.
    Youth Contact                                   2. Zero tolerance of sexual abuse required.
  • VESOY providers                                 3. Criminal record and child abuse registry checks required; and
  • Community Reintegration Contractors with           CRC updated at least every five years.
    Direct Facility Youth Contact                   4. Completion of a PREA Acknowledgment form prior to contact
  • Youth Work Crew Contractors                        with youth
  No Direct Youth Contact - e.g., trade services
                                                    No sexual abuse prevention training or reporting required.
  contractors, consultants, training vendors etc.
                                                    Language regarding considering the effect of the building design,
  Architects, Engineers, Building Design            acquisition, expansion, or modification upon OYA’s ability to
  Consultants                                       protect residents from sexual abuse required in relevant
                                                    building design contracts.




Page 20 of 20 I-A-10.0 Preventing, Detecting, and Responding to Youth Sexual Abuse/Harassment
Effective: 09/24/2025
