                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:          Effective Date:     Date of Last
                                          I-B-1.0 (03/11)                            Review:
 B: Financial Management – 1.0            I-B-1.0 (9/08)   01/29/2013
                                                                         08/02/2024
                                          I-B-1.0 (11/06)
                                          I-B-1.0 (12/02)
 Related             29 CFR 553, Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
 Standards           ORS 651.110 (Assistance and cooperation in enforcement of Fair
 and                  Labor Standards Act of 1938)
 References:         Department of Administrative Services, State Controller’s Division
                      (DAS-SCD); Oregon Accounting Manual (OAM) 45.05.0000.PO
                      through 45.50.0000.PO;
                     Department of Administrative Services, Human Resources
                      Division, policies Division 60: Employee Leave
                     Applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements (AFSCME Local
                      191, SEIU)
                     OYA forms: YA 2236 (Payroll Release Form)
                      YA 2237 (Request for Payroll Advance)
                      YA 2238 (Lost Check Affidavit)
                      YA 8020 (Notification of Separation)
 Related            FAC I-B-1.0(a) Sick Leave
 Procedures:        FAC I-B-1.0(b) Overtime Assignment in Facilities
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Chief Financial Officer
                                            ________________________
                                            Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy describes OYA’s process for reporting and documenting staff work
       time and issuing paychecks.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Payroll staff: The staff responsible for and trained in various time-keeping
       activities, including receiving and reviewing time sheets, entering time sheet
       information into an automated payroll system, and other related activities.

       Supervisor/Manager: A staff member’s immediate supervisor and other
       manager with designated responsibility for monitoring the staff member’s work
       hours.

Page 1 of 10           I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks                Effective: 01/29/2013
       OYA Time-tracking Information System (OTIS): The Oregon Youth Authority’s
       automated staff time-tracking information system.

       Time event: Any event outside a regular work schedule recorded on a time
       sheet including but not limited to leave requests, overtime requests, and shift
       trade requests.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA staff work time will be reported in a manner that results in accurate payroll
       reporting, adequate backup documentation, and compliance with applicable
       Collective Bargaining Agreements, Department of Administrative Services State
       Controllers Division (DAS-SCD) policies, and federal government policies.
       Paychecks will be produced and distributed in a consistent way throughout OYA.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.      Time Sheets

               1.   Authorization

                    a)       Staff who are required to report hours worked due to their
                             status under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and
                             applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements must record
                             actual hours worked.

                             For example, when such staff work a flexible schedule, the
                             hours and days actually worked must be reflected on their
                             time sheets using the OTIS flex time event code (FLEX).

                    b)       Supervisors/Managers must have a process to keep record
                             of their staff’s leave time. The record is used to reconcile
                             with the staff’s time sheet information.

                    c)       Staff will mark their time sheets as “Completed” in OTIS. If
                             supervisors/managers approve time sheets, the
                             supervisors/managers are attesting that the times reported
                             are true and accurate.

                    d)       Staff and supervisors/managers complete and approve time
                             sheets in OTIS on or after the last workday of the pay period.
                             In some cases, staff may complete their time sheets in OTIS
                             prior to the last working day and project their time through
                             the end of the pay period, with supervisor/manager approval.

                    e)       Supervisors/Managers will approve time sheets in OTIS after
                             the staff member’s shift is completed on the staff member’s
                             last workday of the pay period.




Page 2 of 10         I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks        Effective: 01/29/2013
                    f)     If a staff member is unavailable to complete their time sheet
                           in OTIS because of extended leave, the supervisor/manager
                           will both complete and approve the time sheet in OTIS.

                    g)     Central Payroll will pull a report from OTIS that contains all
                           pay and leave information and enter it into the payroll
                           system.

                    h)     Payroll staff must not enter their own payroll information into
                           the payroll system.

                           Payroll staff’s approved time sheets must be entered by a
                           designee assigned by the Payroll Manager.

                    i)     Staff who engage in regular work hours or work overtime at
                           an office/facility other than their assigned location must
                           complete a separate time sheet for hours worked at each
                           location.

               2.   Corrections

                    a)     Generally, corrections made after time sheets have been
                           approved or interfaced will be done by the affected staff and
                           the supervisor/manager.

                    b)     The supervisor/manager or Central Payroll may make
                           changes that benefit staff, with notification to the affected
                           staff.

                           Example: A staff member claims 40 hours of vacation but
                           has accumulated only 32, resulting in eight hours of leave
                           without pay. However, the staff member has at least eight
                           hours of accrued compensatory or personal business time.
                           The supervisor/manager or Central Payroll may change
                           eight of the 40 vacation hours to compensatory or personal
                           business leave on the time sheet, and notify the staff
                           member of the change.

                    c)     Changes that are detrimental to a staff member must be
                           communicated to the staff member in person or in writing.

                           Example: A staff member improperly claims sick leave. The
                           supervisor/manager or Central Payroll makes the correction
                           and calls the staff member regarding the correction.

                    d)     Corrections should be made by the fifth workday of the
                           month following the pay period in order to be included with
                           that month’s statistics. If the need for corrections is
                           discovered after the fifth workday and the staff member is
                           unavailable, the supervisor/manager will:



Page 3 of 10         I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks        Effective: 01/29/2013
                           (1)      Authorize the necessary corrections by requesting the
                                    time sheet be removed from OTIS by Central Payroll;

                           (2)      Communicate in writing to the staff member
                                    explaining the corrections; and

                           (3)      Notify Central Payroll that the corrected time sheet is
                                    ready to be entered.

       B.      Overtime

               1.   Authorization

                    a)     All overtime must be approved by a supervisor/manager or
                           designee through OTIS prior to the overtime shift, except for
                           emergency situations.

                           (1)      Emergency situations are unscheduled overtime
                                    necessary to respond to safety and security issues or
                                    the delivery of therapeutic services where it is
                                    unreasonable to contact the supervisor/manager for
                                    approval.

                           (2)      Staff will request overtime in OTIS prior to the
                                    overtime shift. The supervisor/manager, or designee,
                                    will review and approve or deny the request in OTIS.

                                    In facilities that use a centralized scheduler, the
                                    scheduler will have final approval of overtime time
                                    events.

                           (3)      When attendance to work-related meetings requires
                                    overtime compensation, an overtime time event must
                                    be requested in OTIS.

                    b)     In non-emergency situations when a supervisor/manager or
                           designee is not available to immediately approve the
                           overtime request in OTIS, staff must obtain verbal approval
                           and enter the time event into OTIS prior to the overtime shift.
                           The supervisor/manager or designee will approve the
                           overtime in OTIS when feasible.

               2.   Scheduling

                    a)     Supervisors/Managers will schedule staff leave in a way that
                           minimizes overtime use.

                    b)     See appropriate Collective Bargaining Agreements for
                           provisions regarding scheduling leave.




Page 4 of 10         I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks        Effective: 01/29/2013
               3.   Monitoring

                    Supervisors/Managers, or designees, will use overtime reports
                    provided by Central Payroll to monitor staff overtime and earned
                    compensatory time.

               4.   Compensation

                    a)    Collective Bargaining Agreements provide the most current
                          provisions regarding overtime and compensatory time.

                          See DAS-SCD policy for management and unrepresented
                          staff provisions.

                    b)    SEIU-represented, FLSA non-exempt staff:

                          (1)      May be paid in cash or in compensatory time for
                                   overtime worked.

                                   The staff member will make this choice when they
                                   enter the time event into OTIS.

                          (2)      Compensatory time accumulated in excess of 80
                                   hours will be paid in cash.

                          (3)      Staff may request to have a portion or all of their
                                   compensatory time accrued balance paid to them.
                                   Requests must be made in writing to the staff’s
                                   supervisor. If approved, payment will be made on the
                                   next applicable pay date.

                    c)    SEIU-represented, FLSA-exempt staff:

                          (1)      Receive straight time accrued for overtime worked on
                                   a time-for-time basis.

                          (2)      Straight time:

                                   (a)     Must be used within the fiscal year earned or
                                           will be lost; and

                                   (b)     Has no cash value.

                          (3)      Are subject to Collective Bargaining Agreement
                                   provisions regarding timely use of accumulated
                                   compensatory time.

                          (4)      Are responsible for monitoring and managing
                                   compensatory time, as are their
                                   supervisors/managers.

                    d)    AFSCME-represented staff:

Page 5 of 10        I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks        Effective: 01/29/2013
                            Receive cash or compensatory time for overtime worked.
                            Compensatory time accumulated in excess of 80 hours must
                            be paid in cash.

                            Staff may request to have a portion or all of their
                            compensatory time accrued balance paid to them. Requests
                            must be made in writing to the staff’s supervisor. If approved,
                            payment will be made on the next applicable pay date.

                     e)     Unrepresented and management, FLSA non-exempt staff:

                            (1)      Will receive either compensatory time or cash for
                                     overtime worked at the supervisor’s/manager’s
                                     discretion.

                            (2)      Must be paid in cash for compensatory time
                                     accumulated in excess of 80 hours.

                            (3)      Staff may request to have a portion or all of their
                                     compensatory time accrued balance paid to them.
                                     Requests must be made in writing to the staff’s
                                     supervisor. If approved, payment will be made on the
                                     next applicable pay date.

                     f)     Management, FLSA-exempt staff:

                            (1)      May earn compensatory time or cash for actual time
                                     worked on a holiday at time-and-one-half.

                            (2)      Must get written pre-approval from their supervisors to
                                     work on a holiday.

       C.      Leave Authorization

               1.    All leave will be authorized using the OTIS Time Event screen.

               2.    Vacation leave scheduled in accordance with Collective Bargaining
                     Agreements for facility staff may be scheduled on a calendar or
                     some similar means for administrative ease. The
                     time event may be entered into OTIS by the staff member and
                     approved by the supervisor/manager at a later time that still
                     complies with relevant payroll deadlines for time sheet submission.

               3.    Accrued sick leave is the only leave that may be used without prior
                     written approval. Staff will provide reasonable notice for sick leave
                     and follow facility or local procedures.

               4.    Vacation and compensatory time may not be used for unscheduled
                     sick leave, except for leave under the Family Medical Leave Act
                     (FMLA) or Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA).

               5.    Supervisors/Managers are responsible for:

Page 6 of 10          I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks       Effective: 01/29/2013
                     a)     Verifying the staff member has sufficient accrued time for
                            requested time off, using payroll reports provided by Central
                            Payroll;

                     b)     Verifying that requested time off will not impact the workload
                            of the work area by causing unnecessary overtime to accrue;

                     c)     Determining if requests for sick leave qualify under FMLA or
                            OFLA; and

                     d)     Approving or denying leave requests prior to the leave
                            occurring, except unscheduled sick leave which is generally
                            approved on the day staff return to work following sick leave
                            events.

               6.    In facilities that use a centralized scheduler, the scheduler will have
                     final approval of time events.

       D.      Leave without Pay (LWOP)

               Supervisors/Managers will ensure all projected instances of LWOP are
               reported to Central Payroll by the payroll cutoff date (approximately five
               business days prior to the end of the month) to prevent overpayments to
               the LWOP staff.

               1.    When a staff member incurs or will incur LWOP after the payroll
                     cutoff date, the supervisor/manager must contact Central Payroll by
                     telephone or e-mail so the paycheck can be canceled and reissued
                     in the correct amount.

               2.    A LWOP time event and a time sheet must be completed and
                     approved in OTIS to document all LWOP hours for staff on
                     extended leave including workers’ compensation claims or under
                     FMLA or OFLA.

       E.      Processing paychecks

               Regular monthly and mid-month staff paychecks are processed a few
               days prior to the 1st and the 15th of each month, respectively. Paychecks
               are based on information entered by Central Payroll.

       F.      Distribution of staff paychecks and pay stubs.

               1.    An agency payroll or fiscal staff member who has update authority
                     to the Oregon State Payroll Application (OSPA) must not receive or
                     distribute payroll checks or direct deposit pay stubs. This includes
                     daily manual payroll checks.

               2.    OYA will provide staff paychecks, pay stubs, and payroll reports to
                     all OYA locations at least one day prior to the day paychecks are to
                     be issued. Paychecks are released as follows:


Page 7 of 10          I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks       Effective: 01/29/2013
                     a)    Payday on a weekday: paychecks will be available for
                           distribution to staff no later than 8 AM on payday.

                     b)    Payday on a weekend or a holiday: paychecks will be
                           available to staff no later than 8 AM on the last weekday
                           workday prior to payday.

                     c)    Staff not scheduled to work on payday: paychecks may be
                           released the day prior to payday if the paycheck is available
                           and the staff has completed a YA 2236.

                     d)    December paycheck dated January 1: released the first
                           working day in January. This will avoid the possibility of the
                           December paycheck being included in the prior year
                           earnings for tax purposes.

               3.    As required by the State Treasurer, paychecks may not be cashed
                     or deposited by any staff member until the official payday even
                     though they may have received the check earlier as allowed above.

               4.    Upon receipt of the paycheck, it is the staff member’s responsibility
                     to review the paycheck for accuracy. Any discrepancies should be
                     reported to payroll staff immediately for correction.

               5.    Electronic deposit pay stubs may be distributed at any time prior to
                     payday upon availability.

       G.      Special Paychecks

               1.    Special paychecks are those which are processed and written
                     outside the normal payroll cycle.

               2.    Special checks may be written for the following reasons:

                     a)    Adjustments for errors on the regular payroll cycle, including
                           time sheet entry errors and incorrect deductions;

                           Ordinarily, reimbursement to correct these errors will be
                           made in the next regular payroll cycle. However, a special
                           check may be issued at the request of a staff member.
                           Requests for corrections (either in writing or via corrected
                           time sheet) must be approved by the staff member’s
                           supervisor/manager prior to being sent to Central Payroll for
                           review.

                     b)    Pay for newly-hired staff;

                           Paychecks are routinely issued to a newly-hired staff
                           member who has worked 32 hours or more in the month.

                           (1)      A Personnel Action form must be submitted to Human
                                    Resources Section and forwarded to Central Payroll
                                    when new staff work more than 32 hours.
Page 8 of 10         I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks       Effective: 01/29/2013
                     (2)      New staff who have worked less than 32 hours in the
                              month and wish to be paid before issuance of the first
                              regular payroll check must request a pay advance.
                              (See section c) below).

               c)    Pay advances;

                     A staff member must complete form YA 2237 (Request for
                     Payroll Advance) and submit it to their supervisor/manager
                     for approval. The supervisor/manager will send it to Central
                     Payroll.

                     (1)      A staff member may request a 60% draw against
                              salary and wages earned but not paid to date, less
                              any wage attachments.

                     (2)      Advance paychecks are issued only when it has been
                              established that a bona fide emergency exists.
                              Payment of ordinary debts, other routine obligations,
                              and departure on scheduled leave are not considered
                              to be emergencies.

                              Examples of emergency situations include:

                              •       Death in the family,
                              •       Major car repairs,
                              •       Theft of funds,
                              •       Automobile accident (loss of vehicle use),
                              •       Accident or sickness,
                              •       Destruction or major damage to home,
                              •       New staff lack of funds, or
                              •       Moving due to transfer or promotion.

                     (3)      A receipt or written verification may be required as
                              supporting evidence for each request.

                     (4)      If the request is denied, it will be returned to the staff
                              member with a notation as to why it was denied.

                     (5)      If approved, the regular paycheck will be decreased
                              by the amount of the advance drawn. Advance
                              paychecks will not be issued in the following month to
                              compensate for this shortage.

                     (6)      No more than one advance paycheck will be made to
                              a staff member in one month.

                     (7)      No more than two pay advances will be made to a
                              staff member during a calendar year.


Page 9 of 10   I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks           Effective: 01/29/2013
                           (8)      If a staff member requests an advance after the
                                    payroll cutoff, the staff member’s paycheck may be
                                    held and rewritten for the proper amount to avoid an
                                    overpayment.

                     d)    Pay owed to staff terminating from state employment (not
                           including staff transferring to another state agency);

                           (1)      Special paychecks will automatically be issued to staff
                                    who terminate employment during the month,
                                    provided the payroll unit has 48 hours notification.

                                    See OYA form YA 8020 (Notice of Separation).

                           (2)      Pay for unused vacation leave (up to 250 hours),
                                    compensatory time, and overtime will be included with
                                    the staff member’s final paycheck.

                           (3)      Final paychecks will be in check form only. Direct
                                    deposit of final paychecks is not an option.

                           (4)      A special paycheck will not be issued for staff who
                                    transfer to another state agency, unless it qualifies as
                                    a pay advance. Staff who transfer to another state
                                    agency will receive their final pay from OYA during
                                    the regular payroll cycle.

                3.   Special payroll checks will not be written to pay for overtime,
                     compensatory time, or accumulated vacation time with the intent of
                     reducing the amount of taxes withheld.

                4.   Special check requests must be approved by the staff member’s
                     supervisor/manager, and submitted to Central Payroll.

                     Central Payroll reviews for completeness and appropriate
                     signatures, makes proper calculations for payment, and routes to
                     the Accounting Manager, or designee, for approval.

                5.   Any pay produced outside of the regular payroll cycles cannot be
                     directly deposited into a staff member’s bank account. The staff
                     member or the supervisor/manager must indicate how the check
                     will be distributed (mail to the staff member’s home; mail to the
                     facility/office; or picked up by the staff member, staff member’s
                     representative, or appropriate OYA staff).

                6.   Special paychecks may take up to 72 hours to process.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 10 of 10        I-B-1.0 Payroll Reporting; Issuing Paychecks         Effective: 01/29/2013
