                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)
 Subject:
 Youth Legal Assistance (Community)
 Section – Policy Number:                Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
 A: General Administration – 2.1         III-A-2.1 (10/22) 10/29/2024 Review/Revision:
                                         III-A-2.1 (1/20)                None
                                         III-A-2.1 (1/07)
 Related             ORS 419C.200 (Court-appointed Counsel)
 Standards           ORS Chapter 151, Public Defenders; Counsel for Financially
 and                  Eligible Persons
 References:         OAR Chapter 416, Division 150 (Interviews with Youth in Custody)
                     OAR Chapter 416, Division 440 (Youth in Custody Mail)
                     Oregon Public Defense Commission
                      OYA policy: III-B-4.0 (Youth Rights and Grievances in the
                      Community)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                           Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                ____________________
                                         Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides general standards for addressing youth attorney legal
       assistance for youth on parole or probation.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA recognizes youth have the right to consult privately with legal counsel and
       have access to courts, without obstruction or interference by staff.

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Access to legal assistance is vital in ensuring all youth, particularly


Page 1 of 2                 III-A-2.1 Youth Legal Assistance (Community)    Effective: 10/29/2024
       youth of color, are adequately represented in any legal proceedings and can
       discuss legal matters.

       Youth who have concerns regarding issues that require legal representation or
       assistance may obtain an attorney licensed to practice in the State of Oregon at
       their own expense. Youth may request a court-appointed attorney from the court
       to assist in certain post-dispositional or probation violation hearings.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     All correspondence and communication between a youth and the youth’s
              attorney is confidential.

       B.     Staff must not harass, intimidate, punish or retaliate against youth for
              presenting complaints to the courts, participating in litigation or
              communicating with their attorneys.

       C.     Youth requests for communication by telephone or in person with their
              attorneys must be documented in JJIS notes. OYA staff must make
              reasonable efforts to ensure youth have an opportunity to attempt contact
              within one business day after their request.

       D.     Contract administrators must ensure contracts between OYA and
              residential programs specify that the programs will develop written
              procedures to implement specific OYA policies, including III-A-2.1 Youth
              Legal Assistance – Community.

       E.     Staff in each OYA field office must be aware of local circuit court protocol
              regarding court-appointed attorney representation.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 2 of 2                 III-A-2.1 Youth Legal Assistance (Community)   Effective: 10/29/2024
