                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                      Policy Statement
                            Part 0 – Mission, Values, Principles

 Subject:
 Weapons in the Workplace
 Section – Policy Number:                     Supersedes:       Effective Date:   Date of Last
 0: Mission, Values, Principles - 6.0 0-6.0 (2/17)
                                                                        Review:
                                                        06/07/2022
                                        0-6.0 (9/11)                    06/07/2026
                                        I-C-7.4 (8/96)
                                        I-D-3.0 (8/96)
 Related          ORS 166.360 through 166.380 Possession of Weapon or
 Standards         Destructive Device in Public Building or Court Facility
 and              ORS 166.210 Definitions
 References:      OAR 125-155-0500(5)(e) Prohibiting Firearms in State Vehicles
                  Department of Administrative Services (DAS), Chief Human
                   Resources Office (CHRO), statewide policy 50-010-05 Weapons
                   in the Workplace
                  DAS CHRO Weapons in the Workplace Toolkit
                  OYA policy: 0-5.0 (Violence-Free Workplace)
                   II-A-1.2 (Preserving Chain of Evidence)
 Related          None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                Approved:

 Human Resources Administrator
                                              ________________________
                                              Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines regarding weapons in the workplace to ensure
       safety in OYA facilities and offices.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Firearm: A weapon, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
       projectile by the action of powder. See ORS 166.210(3).

       Handgun: Any pistol or revolver using a fixed cartridge containing a propellant
       charge, primer, and projectile, and designed to be aimed or fired otherwise than
       from the shoulder. See ORS 166.210(5).

       Weapon: Includes weapons of any kind as defined in ORS 166.360, including
       any destructive device as defined in ORS 166.382. These items include, but are
       not limited to, firearm, dirk, dagger, ice pick, slingshot, metal knuckles, or any
       similar instrument or knife (except for an ordinary pocket knife with a blade less

Page 1 of 4                    0-6.0 Weapons in the Workplace                 Effective: 06/07/2022
       than four inches in length), mace, tear gas, pepper mace or any similar
       deleterious agent as defined in ORS 163.211, electrical stun gun or similar
       instrument, club, bat, baton, billy club, bludgeon, knobkerrie, nunchaku,
       nightstick, truncheon or any similar instrument. This further includes any weapon,
       device, instrument, material, or substance which under the circumstances in
       which it is used, intended or attempted to be used or threatened to be used, is
       readily capable of causing death or serious physical injury or specifically
       designed for and presently capable of causing death or serious physical injury.
       This includes “antique firearms” as defined by ORS 166.210.

       Workplace: All property and facilities owned, leased, rented, or otherwise
       occupied by the Oregon state government including grounds, buildings, parking
       structures, and lots, vehicles and other equipment, and any site where an
       employee enters on behalf of the employee’s employment with Oregon state
       government except for an employee’s home (including employees who live in
       state housing) or as authorized by a specific law, collective bargaining
       agreement, policy, rule, or statute.

III.   POLICY:

       State law prohibits state employees from carrying, handling, operating, or
       transporting a weapon in state workplaces unless it is part of an employee’s
       assigned duties (e.g., during an authorized search; while processing contraband
       items). As a safety practice, OYA prohibits weapons in its facilities and offices,
       including handguns owned by staff who possess valid concealed handgun
       licenses.

       Staff may contact OYA’s Human Resources Office if they have questions
       regarding weapons in the workplace policy.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     In the workplace

              1.     Staff are prohibited from carrying or having within their possession
                     or control a weapon while on state duty or at any other time while in
                     a state-owned or controlled building, office, vehicle, or on state
                     property. This includes state-owned or leased parking structures
                     and lots.

                     A permit to carry a concealed weapon does not give authority to
                     use or carry a weapon on the job or into the workplace, concealed
                     or openly. See the storage exception listed in section C below.

              2.     Staff must follow OYA policy 0-5.0 Violence-free Workplace when
                     responding to a threatening person who is carrying a weapon, and
                     contact law enforcement (call 911).

       B.     Within facilities

              1.     Staff may not bring a weapon (including a pocket knife), firearm,
                     handgun, self-defense spray, or ammunition into an OYA facility.
Page 2 of 4                  0-6.0 Weapons in the Workplace           Effective: 06/07/2022
              2.    Staff must direct law enforcement personnel to secure their
                    weapons outside the perimeter of the facility, or in a designated
                    secured locker.

              3.    Only the facility superintendent/camp director or officer-of-the-day
                    (OD) may authorize law enforcement personnel to enter a facility
                    with a weapon, and only during an emergency situation.

              4.    Staff must report violations of this policy in writing to facility security
                    staff or the appropriate manager, with a copy to the superintendent
                    or camp director.

              5.    If a visitor, volunteer, or contractor violates this policy, staff must
                    immediately notify security staff or the appropriate manager.
                    Security staff or the appropriate manager must instruct the visitor,
                    volunteer, or contractor to leave the facility. If the visitor, volunteer,
                    or contractor refuses to leave, staff must notify law enforcement.

              6.    Items confiscated during youth searches that meet the definition of
                    a weapon must be secured as directed in OYA policy II-A-1.2
                    Preserving Chain of Evidence.

       C.     Exceptions

              The below-listed items are allowable in the workplace under the specified
              conditions.

              1.    Serving utensils when used for eating or serving.

              2.    Self-defense sprays (mace, pepper spray) carried for personal
                    protection.

                    a)     Self-defense sprays are not allowed within the perimeter of
                           an OYA facility.

                    b)     In allowable workplaces, self-defense sprays must be stored
                           out of sight and in the owner’s personal belongings (e.g.,
                           purse, briefcase).

                    c)     The self-defense spray must be contained in a commercially
                           manufactured capped aerosol device containing no more
                           than four ounces of spray with less than 10% concentration
                           of capsicum.

              3.    Sporting equipment stored in vehicles for personal use (e.g.,
                    baseball bats, martial arts equipment, golf clubs). Firearms,
                    biological or chemical weapons, and any explosive device are not
                    considered sporting equipment for the purposes of this policy.

              4.    Staff who possess valid concealed handgun licenses (CHL) issued
                    pursuant to ORS 166.291 and 166.92 may secure personal
Page 3 of 4                0-6.0 Weapons in the Workplace                Effective: 06/07/2022
                    firearms inside their personal vehicles in a closed and locked
                    container designed for the storage of firearms.

       D.     Training

              1.    New OYA staff must review this policy during the new hire
                    orientation process.

              2.    Supervisory staff must ensure their staff review this policy annually
                    and complete the online Annual Policy Acknowledgement review in
                    iLearn.

              3.    Staff may also complete available iLearn courses regarding
                    statewide DAS CHRO Weapons in the Workplace policy.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4               0-6.0 Weapons in the Workplace             Effective: 06/07/2022
