                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                   Policy Statement
                      Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 OYA Juvenile Parole/Probation Officer Contact Standards
 Section – Policy Number:                Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Case Management – 1.3                 III-D-1.3 (1/24) 10/29/2024          Review/Revision:
                                          III-D-1.3 (2/21)                   None
                                          III-D-1.3 (12/18)
 Related             ORS 420.045 Parole; discharge; revocation of parole
 Standards           ORS 420.915 Procedure upon apprehension of escapee,
 and                  absentee or parole violator; rules
 References:         ORS 420A.023 (Authority of director to authorize youth correction
                      officers to exercise power of peace officer)
                     ORS 420A.115 Director, appointment
                     OAR 416-300 Parole and Revocations
                     OAR 416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC Offenders
                      Releasing from OYA
                     OYA Multidisciplinary Team (MDT) Standards
                     OYA policy: I-A-9.0 Parent/Guardian Involvement in Youth
                      Reformation
                      I-A-11.0 Assessment, MDT, Case Planning
                      II-A-1.4 Apprehension of Escaped Youth from OYA Facilities
                      III-A-3.0 Youth Foster Care Eligibility, Referral, Placement and
                      Safety
                      III-A-7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Community Location or
                      Escape from an OYA Facility
                      III-B-1.0 Tribal Notification - Community
                      III-D-2.3 Meeting with Youth in the Community
                      III-C-1.3 Behavior Incentives and Reinforcing Behavior
 Related             COM 416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC Youth
 Procedures:         COM III-D-1.2 Courtesy Supervision
 Policy Owner:                            Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                ____________________
                                         Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:
       This policy sets contact standards for OYA juvenile parole/probation officers with
       youth, families, and providers.
II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Adjudicated Youth: A person placed in the legal custody of OYA through a
       juvenile court, either in an OYA facility or placed in the community under
       supervision.
Page 1 of 7                  III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards          Effective: 10/29/2024
       DOC Youth: A person in the legal custody of the Department of Corrections
       (DOC) and physical custody of OYA in an OYA facility.

       Escapee: A youth who resides in an OYA facility:
       • Who has left the grounds of a facility or work crew area without authorization;
       • Whose location remains unknown after a reasonable search time regardless
         of whether they have gone beyond the perimeters of the facility;
       • Who has physically escaped during a secure transport or from a hospital
         commitment; or
       • Who has failed to return from an authorized leave at the specified date and
         time.

       Family: Includes a biological or legal parent, legal guardian, or other identified
       family member or support person who is an active part of the youth’s treatment
       team and case plan.

       Youth: A person in the legal and physical custody of OYA, either in an OYA
       facility or placed in the community under supervision, or a person in the legal
       custody of the Department of Corrections and the physical custody of OYA.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity, and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Regular contact with youth, families and providers supports OYA
       staff to build and maintain developmental relationships with youth and families.
       Positive relationships will help reduce staff bias and support youth behavior
       change.

       OYA protects the public by holding youth accountable, promoting change,
       developing and improving skills, and increasing the likelihood that youth will go
       on to lead productive, crime-free lives. OYA supports a culture of Positive Human
       Development (PHD) to assist in achieving those goals. PHD is built on the
       foundation of positive youth development and includes performing our duties in
       support of the five levels of the PHD pyramid. The five levels are safety and
       security, caring and supportive relationships, high expectations and
       accountability, meaningful participation, and community connection. Successfully
       conducting our work in alignment with PHD provides better support for youth
       success.

       OYA encourages interaction with youth through a developmental approach. A
       developmental approach recognizes that most adolescent criminal behavior is
       largely influenced by factors associated with adolescence and focuses on
       providing opportunities that support development, especially around social and
       emotional learning, decision-making and problem-solving, and self-efficacy and
       self-identity.

       Applying both this culture and approach, OYA assigns a JPPO to each youth in
       its legal or physical custody. The JPPO has routine contact with youth to provide
Page 2 of 7                 III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards        Effective: 10/29/2024
       support and reinforce treatment and development goals and progress. JPPOs
       are the primary case manager for adjudicated youth, monitoring the youth’s case
       plan, supporting development and ensuring compliance with probation/parole
       conditions.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       Youth contacts are intended to reinforce the case plan by identifying progress
       toward short and long-term goals, support youth in behavior change, and monitor
       compliance with probation and parole conditions.

       A.     Adjudicated youth

              1.    JPPOs must have face-to-face contact with each adjudicated youth
                    on their caseloads at least once every 30 days.

                    a)     Any exceptions must be authorized by the field supervisor. In
                           those instances, JPPOs may use available technology (e.g.,
                           remote video meetings) for the required contact.

                    b)     If an exception(s) has been granted for a 30-day face-to-face
                           contact, the JPPOs must at least have face-to-face contact
                           with the youth once every 90 days.

              2.    JPPOs must have face-to-face contact with adjudicated youth at
                    the youth’s place of residence at least once every 90 days.

                    a)     An exception may be authorized by the field supervisor, only
                           if travel is not feasible or the contact would be unsafe for the
                           JPPO.

                    b)     JPPOs will follow safety standards listed in OYA policy
                           III-D-2.3 Meeting with Youth in the Community when meeting
                           youth in any community environment.

       B.     JPPOs must have contact with DOC youth once every 30 days, and face-
              to-face contact at least once every 90 days.

       C.     All youth and family contacts must be documented as JJIS youth contact
              notes, describing the contact content, who was present, the type of
              contact (e.g., in person, by phone) and any authorized exceptions.
              Contacts must be documented in JJIS within five business days of the
              contact.

       D.     JPPOs must participate in multidisciplinary team (MDT) meetings as
              outlined in the OYA MDT Standards.

       E.     JPPOs must notify the OYA tribal liaison/Native American program
              coordinator when a youth identifies as Native American.

              When a youth is an enrolled member of one of the nine federally
              recognized tribes in Oregon, JPPOs must notify tribal representatives of
Page 3 of 7                III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards        Effective: 10/29/2024
              MDT meetings, significant events, and establish a routine communication
              plan as outlined in OYA policy III-B-1.0 Tribal Notification – Community.

       F.     Field supervisors must complete and document case reviews as outlined
              in OYA policy I-A-11.0 Assessment, MDT, and Case Planning to verify
              youth contacts and exceptions are noted in JJIS.

V.     ADDITIONAL CONTACTS

       The below contacts supplement the contacts listed above.

       A.     Youth in OYA facilities

              1.    Family contact

                    a)     JPPOs must contact an adjudicated youth's family every 30
                           days to engage the family in the youth’s case plan and
                           inform the family of progress.

                           Exceptions to family contact must be authorized by the field
                           supervisor.

                    b)     JPPOs must contact a DOC youth's family as appropriate to
                           engage the family in the youth’s case plan and inform the
                           family of progress.

              2.    Case coordinator/camp counselor contact

                    a)     JPPOs must contact an adjudicated youth’s case coordinator
                           or camp counselor every 30 days to receive updated
                           treatment information from facility or program staff.

                    b)     JPPOs must contact a DOC youth’s case coordinator or
                           camp counselor as appropriate to receive updated treatment
                           information from facility staff.

       B.     Youth on community supervision

              1.    Adjudicated youth

                    a)     Youth transitioning between placements

                           JPPOs must have face-to-face contact with youth preferably
                           the day of the transition placement (e.g., substitute care,
                           home), or within ten days of the transition placement.


                    b)     JPPOs must contact a youth’s family at least every 30 days
                           to engage families in case planning and inform families of
                           the youth’s progress. Exceptions to family contact must be
                           authorized by the field supervisor.
                    c)     JPPOs must contact a youth’s substitute care provider at
                           least every 30 days to receive updated treatment and
Page 4 of 7                III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards      Effective: 10/29/2024
                         progress information.

                         JPPOs may contact proctor parents to discuss behavior in
                         the proctor home.

                   d)    JPPOs must contact a foster parent(s) at least once per
                         month to review the youth’s progress. The contact may be in
                         person, by phone, or by email. Increased contact is advised
                         when youth are presenting with behavioral or emotional
                         difficulties in the foster home.

                   e)    Courtesy supervision

                         (1)    Primary (sending) JPPO must have face-to-face
                                contact with the youth every 90 days.

                         (2)    Courtesy (receiving) JPPO must have face-to-face
                                contact with the youth every 30 days.

                   f)    Youth who have absconded

                         (1)    When staff are unable to contact youth who have
                                absconded from their assigned community location,
                                they must attempt to communicate with the youth or
                                collateral contacts at least monthly. This includes
                                people who the youth may contact or who may
                                receive information about the youth’s location.

                         (2)    Communication efforts must be documented in JJIS
                                as a contact note.

                   g)    Youth escapee from an OYA facility

                         (1)     Staff must follow the standards in OYA policy III-A-
                                 7.0 Unauthorized Absence from Assigned
                                 Community Location or Escape from an OYA Facility.

                         (2)     Staff must attempt contact with the parent/guardian
                                 or collateral contacts of an escapee at least monthly.

                         (3)     Communication efforts must be documented in JJIS
                                 as a contact note.

              2.   Paroled Youth with Public Safety Reserve (PSR) Crimes

                   A higher level of community supervision must be provided during
                   the first 90 days of parole to youth who were adjudicated for PSR
                   crimes.

                   a)    First 30 days of parole: At a minimum, the primary JPPO or
                         other OYA staff must have weekly contact with the youth.
                         The contact must be in person at least every other week. Off
                         weeks may be by phone or video.
Page 5 of 7              III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards      Effective: 10/29/2024
              b)   Days 31-90 of parole: At a minimum, the primary JPPO or
                   other OYA staff must have in-person contact with the youth
                   every other week.

              c)   The JPPO may also use other approaches to increase a
                   youth’s parole supervision, including but not limited to:

                   (1)    More frequent in-person contact or home visits (from
                          primary JPPO or other OYA staff);

                   (2)    More frequent phone contact;

                   (3)    Increased monitoring of community activity;

                   (4)    Limiting overnight stays away from approved
                          placement; and

                   (5)    Restricting activities that expose youth to high-risk
                          situations.

              d)   Youth parole supervision level review

                   (1)    The JPPO must review a youth’s increased level of
                          parole supervision with the field supervisor after the
                          first 30 and 90 days, and every 90 days thereafter.

                   (2)    The JPPO must discuss with the youth the youth’s
                          progress after 90 days and any recommendations to
                          maintain or decrease the level of parole supervision.
                          The JPPO must also inform the youth that the youth
                          may choose to discuss the recommendations with the
                          field supervisor.

                   (3)    Field supervisors must approve the removal or
                          continuation of a youth’s increased level of parole
                          supervision.

              e)   The need for continuing a youth’s increased level of parole
                   supervision may be based on a number of factors, including,
                   but not limited to:

                   (1)    Criminal history and risk for recidivism (ORRA and
                          ORRA-V);

                   (2)    Crime type and circumstances;

                   (3)    Treatment and services completed while in an OYA
                          close-custody facility;
                   (4)    Psychosocial maturity needs (based on the Healthy
                          Youth Development domain in the case plan);

Page 6 of 7        III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards       Effective: 10/29/2024
                         (5)    Placement setting and level of supervision;

                         (6)    Community and victim impact;

                         (7)    Community support (e.g., family, mentors); and

                         (8)    Efforts toward meeting case plan goals and
                                compliance with parole conditions.

              3.   DOC youth

                   JPPOs may only contact DOC youth who have been released from
                   an OYA facility and placed on post-prison supervision as agreed by
                   the supervising agency. (See Community Services procedure COM
                   416-255 Reentry Support and Services for DOC Youth.)

VI.    LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 7 of 7              III-D-1.3 OYA JPPO Contact Standards     Effective: 10/29/2024
