                              OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                        Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)
 Subject:
 Youth Marriage - Facility
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                    Review:
 F: Justice – 3.3                           II-F-3.3 (03/07) 10/26/2023
                                                                         10/26/2025
                                            II-F-3.3 (02/00)
 Related             ORS 106.010 to 106.060 (Marriage)
 Standards           ORS 419C.550 through 419C.558 (Legal Custodian of Youth or
 and                  Adjudicated Youth; Guardian)
 References:         OYA policy: I-A-8.0 (Exercise and Delegation of Legal Custodian
                      and Guardianship Authority)
                      I-E-2.3 (Requests for Youth Information and Records)
                      II-E-2.5 (Visits with Youth)
 Related             FAC II-E-6.0 Substance Use Assessment and Treatment in OYA
 Procedures:           Facilities
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Facility Services Assistant Director
                                            _______________________
                                            Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes a guideline for marriages of eligible youth within OYA
       close-custody facilities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Staff must not impose their own belief systems or biases about
       marriage on youth in OYA custody.

       Oregon permits people 17 years of age or older to marry. Youth 17 years of age
       require written consent of their parent or guardian to marry. If no parent or
Page 1 of 2                  II-F-3.3 Youth Marriage – Facility                Effective: 10/26/2023
       guardian resides within Oregon, a marriage license may be issued without
       consent of the parent or guardian providing the youth has resided for six months
       within the county where the application is submitted. Youth 18 years of age or
       older do not require written consent of any party to marry.

       For youth 17 years of age:
             When a court grants legal custody and guardianship of a youth to OYA,
              the agency has the authority to consent to the youth’s marriage, if the
              youth is legally permitted to marry. Authorization to give consent to marry
              is exercised by an OYA assistant director or the OYA director.
             In cases where only legal custody is granted to OYA, the agency cannot
              provide consent to marry.

       Eligible youth may be permitted to marry provided that the marriage is legal,
       would not present a threat to the safe, secure, and orderly operation of an OYA
       facility and would not jeopardize public safety.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA will not pay for fees incurred related to the marriage process, such as
              the marriage license fee and ceremony expenses.

       B.     Designated facility staff must provide information as desired by the youth
              regarding pre-marital counseling. Prior to release of youth records, staff
              must refer to OYA policy I-E-2.3 (Request for Youth Information and
              Records).

       C.     Designated facility staff or the assigned juvenile parole/probation officer
              (JPPO) will discuss marriage plans with the youth and the youth’s family (if
              available).

       D.     Marriage ceremonies within a facility must follow the facility’s local
              operating protocol, remaining consistent with OYA policy II-E-2.5 (Visits
              with Youth).

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 2 of 2                II-F-3.3 Youth Marriage – Facility         Effective: 10/26/2023
