                               OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                          Policy Statement
                            Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)

 Subject:
 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities
 Section – Policy Number:                        Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                          Review/Revision:
 D: Health and Mental Health – 1.1          II-D-1.1 (01/20) 10/29/2024
                                                                          None
                                            II-D-1.1 (12/17)
                                            II-D-1.1 (01/12)
                                            II-D-1.1 (08/04)
 Related                ORS 420A.010 Oregon Youth Authority; Creation and Duties
 Standards and          OAR 416-345 Youth in Custody Medical Care and Treatment in
 References:             Youth Correction Facilities
                        Performance-based Standards for Juvenile Correctional Facilities,
                         American Correctional Association, 4-JCF-4C-12 (Provision of
                         Treatment); 4-JCF-4C-11 (Elective Procedures)
                        OYA Policy: II-D-1.0 Facility Health Services
                        OYA Forms: YA 4404 Therapeutic Level of Care Referral
 Related                None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                    Approved:

 Health Services Director
                                                  ____________________
                                                  Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:
       This policy categorizes OYA close-custody youth medical care and treatment into
       priority levels with authorization for each level specified. The policy also
       establishes guidelines for OYA staff to follow when determining if a particular
       level of medical care or treatment for youth will be provided by OYA.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:
       Clinical Review Committee (CRC): A committee comprised of the OYA medical
       director, a medical practitioner, other licensed health care staff and, at times,
       ancillary staff convened by the OYA medical director to review requests for non-
       medically necessary treatment of youth in OYA close-custody facilities and for
       requests for treatment with associated extraordinary costs. Recommendations
       made by a specialist in the relevant field are also reviewed.

III.   POLICY:
       Youth in OYA close custody are entitled to responsive, timely, and clinically
       appropriate diagnosis, treatment, and care of health problems. Youth have equal
       access to cost-effective and medically necessary health care services. Health

Page 1 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
       Services personnel care for patients with compassion and respect for the
       patient's privacy and dignity. Treatment is provided in an objective and
       nonjudgmental manner; and Health Services personnel must advocate for the
       patient's health. Health Services recognizes that youth from underserved and
       marginalized populations may require more health care services in order to
       restore health due to lack of access to health care services while living in the
       community.

       OYA provides those health care services that are medically necessary and
       preserve and maintain the health status of youth during incarceration. The level
       of health care services provided by OYA must be consistent with the standard for
       such services in the community. This means that health care procedures must be
       conducted in a clinically appropriate manner by appropriately credentialed and
       licensed personnel in an appropriate setting. OYA health care providers use
       evidence-based, nationally recognized clinical guidelines when providing youth
       with medical care and treatment.

       The following general standards establish the method and guidelines used to
       determine whether treatment will or will not be provided by OYA to a youth
       consistent with applicable law, and to ensure sufficient health care resources are
       available to preserve and maintain the youth’s health status while in an OYA
       close-custody facility.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.       Overview

                1.      Medical care and treatment are prioritized into levels with
                        authorization for each level specified:

                        a)       Level 1 - Medically Mandatory: Will be routinely provided to
                                 all youth by OYA. Authorization for treatment may be given
                                 by any licensed Health Services staff.

                        b)       Level 2 - Presently Medically Necessary: May be provided to
                                 OYA youth subject to periodic utilization review by the OYA
                                 medical director. Care is authorized by any OYA Health
                                 Services medical practitioner.

                        c)       Level 3 - Medically Acceptable, but not Medically Necessary:
                                 Provision of services to youth will be decided on a case-by-
                                 case basis.

                        d)       Level 4 - Of Limited Medical Value: Will not be provided to
                                 youth by OYA.

                2.      The levels of care are general categories of diagnoses, therapies
                        and procedures. In some cases, additional factors may need to be
                        considered in deciding whether or not OYA will provide a given
                        procedure or therapy.


Page 2 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
                3.      Access of a youth to adequate diagnosis and review by appropriate
                        medical personnel is essential and is not abridged by this policy.

                4.      The final authority in all Therapeutic Level of Care reviews and
                        review appeals is the OYA medical director or designee(s).

       B.       Definition of Levels of Care and Treatment and Authorization to Proceed

                1.      Level 1 - Medically Mandatory

                        a)       Definition: Care that is essential to life and health, without
                                 which rapid deterioration may be an expected outcome and
                                 where medical surgical intervention makes a very significant
                                 difference or has a very high cost effectiveness.

                                 Examples include:

                                 (1)      Acute problems, potentially fatal, where treatment
                                          prevents death and allows full recovery (e.g.,
                                          appendectomy for appendicitis);

                                 (2)      Acute problems, potentially fatal, where treatment
                                          prevents death but does not necessarily allow for full
                                          recovery (e.g., burn treatment, treatment for severe
                                          head injuries, status asthmaticus); and

                                 (3)      Maternity care (e.g., monitoring, delivery,
                                          hypertension of pregnancy).

                        b)       Authorization: Any OYA Health Services medical practitioner
                                 may authorize care and treatment. In an emergency
                                 situation, OYA nursing staff may authorize care and
                                 treatment.

                        c)       Medically mandatory care is frequently urgent or emergency
                                 care. It is best initiated by Health Services personnel at the
                                 time of intervention and is routinely authorized, provided,
                                 and paid for by OYA.

                2.      Level 2 - Presently Medically Necessary

                        a)       Definition: Care without which the youth could not be
                                 maintained without significant risk of either further serious
                                 deterioration of the condition or significant reduction of the
                                 chance of possible repair after release or without significant
                                 pain or discomfort.

                                 Examples include:

                                 (1)      Chronic, usually fatal, conditions where treatment
                                          improves lifespan and quality of life (e.g. medical

Page 3 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
                                          management of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus,
                                          medical management of asthma, hypertension);

                                 (2)      Immunizations;

                                 (3)      Comfort care such as pain management and hospice-
                                          type care for the end stages of diseases such as
                                          cancer and AIDS;

                                 (4)      Proven effective preventive care for youth (e.g.,
                                          preventive dental care, pap smears, BP screenings,
                                          STD screenings);

                                 (5)      Acute nonfatal conditions where treatment causes a
                                          return to a previous state of health (e.g., fillings for
                                          dental cavities, medical treatment of various infectious
                                          disorders);

                                 (6)      Acute nonfatal conditions where treatment allows the
                                          best approximation of return to previous health (e.g.,
                                          reduction of dislocated elbow or shoulder, repair of
                                          corneal laceration, treatment of displaced fractures of
                                          the extremities); and

                                 (7)      Medical treatment to ameliorate symptoms of gender
                                          dysphoria.

                        b)       Authorization: Any OYA Health Services medical practitioner
                                 may authorize care and treatment. The decisions of
                                 practitioners are subject to periodic review by the OYA
                                 medical director.

                        c)       Level 2, Presently Medically Necessary, care when not of an
                                 emergency nature, must undergo periodic review. These
                                 services will be routinely provided and paid for by OYA.

                3.      Level 3 - Medically Acceptable, but not Medically Necessary

                        a)       Definition: Care for nonfatal conditions where treatment may
                                 improve the quality of life for the patient (e.g., asymptomatic
                                 hernia repair, treatment of non-cancerous skin lesions
                                 [common wart], surgery for certain chronic knee conditions,
                                 elective procedures).

                        b)       Authorization: May be authorized on an individual-by-
                                 individual basis or a problem-by-problem basis as outlined
                                 below.

                                 (1)      Medical and surgical procedures and therapies from
                                          Level 3 which can be appropriately done on premises
                                          in a routine clinic and are within the skills of the

Page 4 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
                                          medical practitioner may be offered at the medical
                                          practitioner’s discretion. Any case may be referred by
                                          a practitioner to the OYA medical director for review.

                                 (2)      Off-site procedures and therapies for chronic
                                          diseases from Level 3, if deemed appropriate for
                                          treatment by the facility medical practitioner, will be
                                          referred to the OYA Medical Director for clinical
                                          review.

                                 (3)      Clinical Review: A YA 4404 (Therapeutic Level of
                                          Care Referral) form must be completed by the
                                          medical practitioner or designee and submitted to the
                                          OYA medical director. The OYA medical director may
                                          form a CRC to review requests on a case-by-case
                                          basis. Discussions and decisions made by the CRC
                                          may be in meetings or by email. Factors that will be
                                          considered either singularly or in combination when
                                          deciding if a clinical service should be provided
                                          include:

                                          (a)     The urgency of the procedure, the anticipated
                                                  length of the youth's remaining commitment to
                                                  close custody and whether the
                                                  surgery/procedure could be or could not be
                                                  reasonably delayed without causing a
                                                  significant progression, complication, or
                                                  deterioration of the condition;

                                          (b)     The necessity of the procedure/therapy;

                                          (c)     Any relevant functional disability and the
                                                  degree of functional improvement to be gained;

                                          (d)     Medical necessity - the overall morbidity and
                                                  mortality of the condition if left untreated;

                                          (e)     Pre-existing conditions - the condition existed
                                                  prior to the youth’s incarceration. If treatment
                                                  was not obtained prior, the reasons for not
                                                  obtaining treatment;

                                          (f)     The probability the procedure/therapy will have
                                                  a successful outcome along with relevant risks;

                                          (g)     Alternative therapy/procedures, which may be
                                                  appropriate;

                                          (h)     Youth’s desire for the procedure and the
                                                  likelihood of the youth’s cooperation in the
                                                  treatment efforts;

Page 5 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
                                          (i)     Risk/Benefits if known;

                                          (j)     Cost if known; and

                                          (k)     Pain Complaints/Pain Behaviors (subjective
                                                  complaints vs. objective findings).

                4.      Level 4 - Limited Medical Value

                        a)       Definition: Care that is valuable to certain individuals but
                                 significantly less likely to be cost effective or to produce
                                 substantial long-term gain. This includes treatment of minor
                                 conditions where treatment merely speeds recovery, gives
                                 little improvement in quality of life, offers minimal palliation of
                                 symptoms, or is exclusively for the convenience of the
                                 individual. Examples include nasal reconstruction for
                                 cosmetic reasons, elective circumcision, and surgery for
                                 gynecomastia.

                        b)       Care and treatment will not be authorized by OYA.

                        c)       OYA health care providers use evidence-based clinical
                                 guidelines when determining the appropriateness of
                                 treatment for medical conditions. OYA does not provide
                                 medical care and treatment for elective, cosmetic, or
                                 experimental procedures.

       C.       Exceptions

                1.      There may be occasion when the level of care is unclear or when it
                        is not appropriate to apply the levels of care to an individual patient
                        (i.e., it may not seem appropriate to provide care for a Level 2
                        diagnosis, or it may seem appropriate to provide care for a Level 4
                        case).

                2.      Any individual case or proposed therapy may be reviewed for
                        appropriateness, second opinion, approval or denial of coverage,
                        etc., by submitting a completed YA 4404 to the OYA medical
                        director for review. The medical director may also choose to
                        convene a CRC for clinical review of the request.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 6 of 6   II-D-1.1 Therapeutic Levels of Physical Health Care in OYA Facilities   Effective: 10/29/2024
