                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Pre-employment Physical Abilities Test
 Section – Policy Number:                  Supersedes:           Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Personnel Management – 2.2           I-D-2.2 (08/15) 06/22/2026          Review/Revision:
                                         I-D-2.2 (11/06)                     None
                                         I-D-2.2 (04/01)
 Related             ORS 181A.410 (Minimum standards and training for certification;
 Standards            duties in improving public safety units; grants; fees, rules)
 and                 American Correctional Association, Standards for Juvenile
 References:          Correctional Facilities; 5-JCF-7C-06 (Pre-employment Physical
                      Examination)
                     OYA forms: YA 8018 (Pre-Employment PAT Test)
                      YA 8019 (Pre-Employment PAT Roster)
                      YA 8014 (Pre-Employment Physical Abilities Test Follow Up
                      Attestation)
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                             Approved:

 Human Resources Administrator
                                           _______________________
                                           Mike Tessean, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidance on Pre-employment Physical Abilities Testing
       (PAT) for applicants being considered for Group Life Coordinator positions. The
       following is addressed:
        PAT monitoring;
        PAT standards;
        PAT equipment; and
        Pre- and post-PAT activities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS: None

III.   POLICY:

       The OYA Pre-Employment Physical Abilities Test (PAT) is used to ensure
       individuals are capable of meeting the physical standards considered necessary
       to complete the essential duties of the group life coordinator (GLC) position.
       Compliance with these standards is necessary to ensure workplace safety.

       Applicants being considered for GLC positions must successfully pass the PAT
       to advance through the selection process. This includes applicants who have
Page 1 of 4           I-D-2.2 Pre-employment Physical Abilities Test           Effective: 06/22/2026
       previously been employed by OYA and passed the PAT, and are reapplying for a
       GLC position.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     PAT Certified Monitor Team

              Each OYA facility must have a PAT Monitor Team to ensure local testing
              meets agency standards.

              1.    PAT Monitor Team members must complete the PAT Certified
                    Monitor Course facilitated by an existing certified monitor. This may
                    be done locally or at another facility that has a certified PAT
                    monitor.

              2.    Each facility’s superintendent/camp director must ensure their
                    facility’s PAT Monitor Team members have been trained by a
                    certified PAT monitor.

              3.    Each PAT Monitor Team must consist of a minimum of two PAT
                    monitor certified individuals.

              4.    Facilities located geographically close to one another may choose
                    to share PAT Monitor Teams.

       B.     Testing standards

              The PAT (YA 8018) is designed to determine whether an applicant for the
              Group Life Coordinator position can meet the following standards:

              1.    Ability to simulate climbing a flight of stairs using a stair step;

              2.    Ability to jog 100 yards;

              3.    Ability to use physical restraining force for three minutes and forty
                    seconds;

              4.    Ability to kneel, bend, turn and stand, turn and sit, reach and crawl;

              5.    Ability to move objects weighing from 6 to 165 pounds.

              6.    Ability to handle and have dexterity;

              7.    Repeat standards 1 through 6 above;

              8.    Have vision of at least 20/30 in each eye, with or without correction;
                    and

              9.    Have binaural hearing, aided or unaided, in the ranges of 500-3000
                    hertz and 20-60 decibels.



Page 2 of 4         I-D-2.2 Pre-employment Physical Abilities Test       Effective: 06/22/2026
       C.     Testing equipment

              Each PAT will be conducted using the following standard equipment:

              1.    Dummy, weighing 165 pounds;

              2.    Six-pound medicine ball;

              3.    Small cones (50);

              4.    A 100-yard measuring tape;

              5.    Crawl station (30-inches high);

              6.    Plastic chairs (two minimum);

              7.    Key-lock station;

              8.    Stopwatches (four);

              9.    Hearing test equipment;

              10.   Vision test equipment;

              11.   Introduction video;

              12.   Ten-pound kettle bell;

              13.   Push-button telephone;

              14.   List of numbers to assign to participants; and

              15.   Approved video.

       D.     Pre-PAT activities

              1.    Prior to starting the tests, the PAT monitors will:

                    a)      Set up the test site according to PAT specifications;

                    b)      Verify participants are listed on the sign-up list;

                    c)      Describe each PAT event in writing;

                    d)      Demonstrate the standard(s) for each event prior to
                            administering the test for that event; and

                    e)      Read the following form to participants and ensure the
                            participants sign as an indication of their understanding of
                            the PAT process: YA 8018 Pre-employment Physical
                            Abilities Test.


Page 3 of 4         I-D-2.2 Pre-employment Physical Abilities Test        Effective: 06/22/2026
              2.    If an applicant refuses to sign the required forms, the applicant may
                    not continue with the PAT process.

              3.    A certified PAT monitor must determine the suitability of an
                    applicant to continue the PAT when an applicant:

                    a)      Indicates the applicant has a restriction or disability that
                            might prevent completion of the PAT; or

                    b)      Has other concerns or conditions that cause the PAT
                            monitor to question the applicant’s ability to participate.

       E.     Post-PAT activities

              The certified PAT monitor must complete the following activities after the
              PAT is finished:

              1.    Certify the PAT results and immediately scan and e-mail the forms
                    and test results to the Human Resources Office;

              2.    Notify successful applicants of the next steps in the employment
                    process;

              3.    Inform successful applicants that the PAT results are good for six
                    months; and

              4.    Give unsuccessful applicants instructions for re-testing
                    opportunities, including that the applicant must wait 30 days to
                    retest if they fail the physical portion of the PAT.

                    If an applicant fails the hearing or vision portion of the PAT, give
                    them a YA 8014 form to take to their provider to evaluate whether
                    they meet the standards outlined on the form.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4         I-D-2.2 Pre-employment Physical Abilities Test      Effective: 06/22/2026
