                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                    Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Nonbudgeted Personnel Requests
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:   Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                            Review:
 D: Personnel Management – 2.0              N/A           10/24/2019        10/24/2023
 Related             ORS 240.012, 240.013, 240.015, 240.306, 240.309, 240.570
 Standards           DAS policy: Chief Human Resources Office statewide policy
 and                   40.010.02: Recruitment and Selection
 References:         Collective Bargaining Agreements
                     OYA forms: YA 8126 Nonbudgeted Personnel Approval
                     Attachment A: Nonbudgeted Personnel Request Process
                      Flowchart
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Chief Financial Officer
                                            ________________________
                                            Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy delineates how OYA approves nonbudgeted personnel requests.

       OYA staff may refer to their appropriate bargaining agreements for classification
       review request processes.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Nonbudgeted personnel: An employee position or position change that is not in
       the agency’s legislatively approved budget.

III.   POLICY:

       According to statewide human resources policy 40.010.02 Recruitment and
       Selection, a nonbudgeted position may occur for the following situations:
       • To cover an employee on leave for any reason when a temporary
          appointment is not appropriate, and a vacant position does not exist to
          address the workload need;
       • Short-term transition of employees into impending vacant positions for
          purposes of training;
       • Establishing position pending the budget system update;
       • When approved or directed by the Budget and Management Section to
          address budget issues; or
Page 1 of 4    I-D-2.0 Nonbudgeted Personnel Requests         Effective: 10/24/2019
       •      For job share when the total FTE of the employees assigned to the position is
              no more than 1.00 FTE.

       OYA may consider assigning lead work, work out of class, etc., based on
       business need only.

       OYA hiring managers must follow the process described in this policy when
       proposing any nonbudgeted positions or changes to budgeted positions.
       Changes include reclassifications, abolishing/establishing positions, lead worker,
       work out of class, or hiring any new staff member in the absence of a budgeted
       position.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.        Hiring managers must complete a YA 8126 Nonbudgeted Personnel
                 Approval form when requesting to fill the following types of positions:

                 1.     Temporary;

                 2.     Limited duration;

                 3.     Reclassification (up or down);

                 4      Newly established nonbudgeted; and

                 5.     Any other that create an unfunded liability for the agency (e.g., lead
                        worker, work out of class).

       B.        The appropriate OYA fiscal analyst must review the YA 8126 and
                 collaborate with the hiring manager to complete an analysis of funding
                 options within the requesting manager’s budget section or department.

       C.        The appropriate assistant director must review the YA 8126 and determine
                 whether to approve the request to move forward for further analysis.

       D.        If the request is approved for further analysis, the YA 8126 must be
                 reviewed by the OYA human resources classification and compensation
                 analyst for appropriate classification determination.

       E.        Limited duration and temporary positions (including temporary work out of
                 class)

                 1.     If the personnel request can be funded within the hiring manager’s
                        section or division, the assistant director may approve the request
                        and notify the hiring manager to proceed with the hiring process.

                 2.     If the personnel request requires funding outside the hiring
                        manager’s section or division, the YA 8126 must be reviewed by –

                        a)     OYA Human Resources administrator;

                        b)     OYA Chief financial officer; and
Page 2 of 4      I-D-2.0 Nonbudgeted Personnel Requests           Effective: 10/24/2019
                     c)     OYA Business Services assistant director.

                     d)     The Business Services assistant director will confer with the
                            appropriate assistant director prior to presenting the request
                            to the OYA executive team for review.

       F.     Reclassifications and new positions

              If the personnel request is for a reclassification or a new position, the
              YA 8126 must be reviewed as described in section E.2. above.

       G      The OYA executive team must consider the agency’s unfunded position
              liability document when reviewing the personnel request and deny,
              approve, or request more information to make a final decision.

       H.     If the personnel request is nonbudgeted without a funding plan and the
              OYA executive team has approved it, the OYA chief financial officer must
              seek approval from the Department of Administrative Services, Chief
              Financial Office prior to filling the position.

              The nonbudgeted personnel request may be filled with the Department of
              Administrative Services, Chief Financial Office’s approval.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 4   I-D-2.0 Nonbudgeted Personnel Requests            Effective: 10/24/2019
Attachment A: Nonbudgeted Personnel Request Process Flowchart




Page 4 of 4   I-D-2.0 Nonbudgeted Personnel Requests   Effective: 10/24/2019
