                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services
 Subject:
 Tort Liability and Claims
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
 A: General Administration – 4.0     I-A-4.0 (10/19) 10/29/2024      Review:
                                     I-A-4.0 (9/16)                  None
                                     I-A-4.0 (7/14)
                                     I-A-4.0 (07/12)
                                     I-A-4.0 (11/06)
                                     I-A-4.0 (09/96)
 Related         ORS 30.260 through 30.300 (Tort Actions Against Public Bodies)
 Standards       OAR Chapter 125, Division 150 (Risk Management)
 and             Department of Administrative Services, Enterprise Goods and
 References:      Services(DAS-RMD) 125-7-201 (Liability Self-Insurance Policy
                  Manual)
                 OYA policy: I-A-3.0 (Attorney General Opinions and Advice)
 Related         None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                       Approved:
 Public Policy and Government                ____________________
 Relations Manager                           Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy describes OYA's responsibilities in reporting claims or lawsuits
       against OYA, staff, agents, or lawful agents when acting in their official
       capacities.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Claim: A legal action to obtain money, property or the enforcement of a right
       protected by law against another party.

       Complaint: A complaint is the initial pleading that starts the process of civil
       litigation, citing the grounds for the lawsuit, the plaintiff’s claim, and the relief
       sought.

       Personal liability insurance: Provides coverage to staff in connection with
       claims for damages to persons or property caused by alleged wrongful acts or
       omissions.

       Torts: Wrongful acts, except for breach of contract, for which civil action may be
       instituted.

Page 1 of 4                   I-A-4.0 Tort Liability and Claims                 Effective: 10/29/2024
III.   POLICY:

       The State of Oregon is liable for its torts and those of its officers, employees,
       agents and lawful agents acting within the scope of their employment or
       contracted responsibility. The Department of Administrative Services, Risk
       Management Division (DAS-RMD) administers the liability fund insurance
       program that covers tort liability. The scope of tort liability is limited by Oregon
       statute. The maximum amount of liability coverage is also limited by statute.

       Defense of a staff or agent is the responsibility of the Attorney General's office.
       The Attorney General will reject defense of the claim if, after investigation, it is
       found that:
       • The claim or demand does not arise out of an alleged act or omission
          occurring in the performance of duty; or
       • The act or omission complained of amounted to malfeasance in office, or
          willful or wanton neglect of duty.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     OYA’s risk coordinator is the public policy and government relations
              manager.

              The tort and litigation administrative specialist 2 or agency records officer
              may serve as the risk coordinator’s designee.

       B.     Notification process

              1.     The risk coordinator, or designee, must notify DAS-RMD verbally or
                     in writing of any accident, occurrence, or loss which could
                     reasonably be assumed to result in a tort liability claim or lawsuit.
                     The risk coordinator must ensure that summary information is
                     gathered and provide it to DAS-RMD risk within 10 days of
                     becoming aware of the incident.

              2.     Upon receipt of a tort notice or a suit, the risk coordinator must
                     notify the OYA director, deputy director, Human Resources Office,
                     and pertinent assistant directors. The risk coordinator must
                     complete the notifications within five days of becoming aware of the
                     incident.

                     The risk coordinator, or designee, must respond to DAS-RMD
                     within 30 days of receipt of a tort notice.

              3.     OYA must cooperate with DAS-RMD and the Trial Division,
                     Department of Justice in the investigation, settlement, and defense
                     of claims and lawsuits. This may include attending hearings and
                     trials, securing and giving evidence, obtaining the attendance of
                     employee witnesses, and disclosing all pertinent records and files.

                     The risk coordinator manages this process.



Page 2 of 4                  I-A-4.0 Tort Liability and Claims           Effective: 10/29/2024
              4.     DAS RMD has sole authority to pay tort claims. OYA must have
                     DAS-RMD approval prior to resolving, assuming an obligation, or
                     incurring an expense concerning a claim.

       C.     Potential tort liability claims

              1.     If a manager becomes aware of a reason to believe that an act by a
                     staff, agent, or lawful agent could produce a liability claim or
                     lawsuit, the manager must notify the risk coordinator by emailing
                     OYAtortsandlitigation@oya.oregon.gov and attaching any relevant
                     reports.

                     The notice must be completed as soon as possible after the
                     manager becomes aware of a specific incident or identification that
                     an act may have the potential for a liability claim.

              2.     The risk coordinator, or designee, may obtain incident
                     documentation from JJIS and youth records when appropriate.

              3.     If documentation is not available through JJIS or youth records,
                     staff must provide the following information to the risk coordinator:

                     a)      The time, place, and circumstances giving rise to the claim;
                             and

                     b)      The identity of persons involved, and any witnesses.

       D.     Tort liability claims

              1.     Staff, agents or lawful agents must direct individuals to DAS-RMD,
                     Claims Section if contacted by individuals about claim filing
                     procedures or notice of a claim.

              2.     The local office or facility must immediately forward any written
                     claim notices, whether received in person or by mail (usually a
                     demand letter or notice of intent to sue), through the local
                     management structure to the risk coordinator at
                     OYAtortsandlitigation@oya.oregon.gov.

                     Staff must also include the following information with the notice:

                     a)      The person upon whom notice was served;

                     b)      If personally presented, by whom and date received; and

                     c)      If by mail, date received.

              3.     The risk coordinator, or designee, must send a letter to the claimant
                     notifying the claimant to file a claim with DAS-RMD.

       E.     Tort complaints (lawsuits)

              Whenever a staff, agent, or lawful agent is served with a complaint
              (lawsuit), they must immediately notify the risk coordinator.
Page 3 of 4                  I-A-4.0 Tort Liability and Claims         Effective: 10/29/2024
              1.   Copies of the summons and complaint papers, along with a
                   description of the exact date, time, and method the complaint was
                   served, must be forwarded to the risk coordinator at
                   OYAtortsandlitigation@oya.oregon.gov.

              2.   The risk coordinator, or designee, must work with the local office or
                   facility to initiate communication with the appropriate parties in the
                   Department of Justice, Trial Division, and DAS-RMD.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 4 of 4               I-A-4.0 Tort Liability and Claims          Effective: 10/29/2024
