                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                            Part I – Administrative Services

 Subject:
 Staff and Volunteer Recognition
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
 D: Personnel Management – 3.7        I-D-3.7 (5/19)  04/26/2024
                                                                  Review:
                                      I-D-3.7 (1/16)              06/26/2026
                                      I-D-3.7 (12/13)
                                      I-D-3.7 (12/11)
                                      I-D-3.7 (7/10)
                                      I-D-3.7 (3/08)
                                      I-D-3.7 (7/96)
 Related         Department of Administrative Services, Human Resource Services
 Standards        Division 50.040.01 (Employee Performance Recognition Program)
 and             OYA forms: YA 1000 (Tenure Certificate)
 References:      YA 1002 (OYA Director’s Outstanding Service Award Nomination)
 Related         None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Communications Director
                                             _____________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy governs the Certificate of Recognition, Length of Service Award,
       Retirement Acknowledgment, Coin Award, Director’s Award, and Volunteer of the
       Year Award processes.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Executive Team: An OYA executive group that provides oversight to agency
       operations.

III.   POLICY:

       Diversity, equity, and inclusion is an OYA priority, with a goal to build a
       respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive environment for youth and staff that is
       free from harassment, discrimination, and bias. Data shows youth of color and
       LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately represented in the juvenile justice system.
       While OYA is only one part of that system, it plays a critical role in addressing the
       historical and systemic inequities it perpetuates.


Page 1 of 6            I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition                 Effective: 04/26/2024
       OYA is committed to building and maintaining a work culture and systems that
       center diversity, equity, and inclusion. Systemic bias and racism impact OYA
       staff and work teams. OYA will monitor its recognition and award process and
       history of recipients for disparities and bias and aim for equitable recognition of
       stellar performance.

       In alignment with OYA's core mission, it is important to recognize and uplift the
       outstanding staff and teams improving outcomes for marginalized youth and
       building better communities.

       Daily recognition and praise for staff individual and team efforts is important to
       maintain safe work environments and good morale. Recognizing staff for giving
       continuous service to the agency and the State of Oregon is a tangible
       expression of appreciation for their contributions and expertise.

       In addition, individual OYA staff or teams of staff that demonstrate outstanding
       performance and exemplary service during a calendar year will be formally
       recognized for their contributions.

       OYA volunteers also provide valuable services to youth. Recognizing
       outstanding volunteers for their contributions is an important way to continue our
       partnership with them, to show appreciation for their efforts, and to potentially
       help in recruiting new volunteers.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Certificate of Recognition

              OYA recognizes and appreciates those who make outstanding
              contributions to the agency’s mission.

              1.     OYA management staff may recognize such a contributor at any
                     time with a certificate. No formal nomination process is needed.

              2.     The Communications Office may be consulted for guidance on
                     drafting the certificate’s language. As needed, the Communications
                     Office will assist with writing, designing, and printing the certificate.

       B.     Length of Service Awards

              OYA shows its appreciation of staff by giving recognition awards based on
              tenure for completion of years of permanent state service in five-year
              increments (e.g., 5, 10, 15, etc.). The calculation of length of service is
              based on the staff member’s recognized service date.

              1.     The Human Resources Office will send a Length of Service Award
                     and certificate signed by the director to the recipient’s supervisor.

              2.     The recipient’s supervisor will present the award to the recipient.



Page 2 of 6          I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition             Effective: 04/26/2024
       C.     Retirement Acknowledgment

              OYA recognizes and shows its appreciation of staff retiring from OYA.

              1.    The retiring staff member’s supervisor must notify Human
                    Resources staff when the supervisor becomes aware of the staff
                    member’s impending retirement.

              2.    The Human Resources Office will notify the Director’s Office of the
                    staff member’s retirement.

              3.    The retiring staff member’s supervisor must send a draft
                    acknowledgment letter to the Director’s Office at least three weeks
                    prior to the retiring staff member’s retirement date. The supervisor
                    will coordinate with the Director’s Office regarding the staff
                    member’s choice of personalized acknowledgement item (e.g.,
                    plaque or coasters), if any.

              4.    The Director’s Office will prepare a final recognition letter from the
                    director to the retiree based on information provided by the
                    supervisor.

              5.    The retiring staff member’s supervisor, or designee, will present the
                    retirement award on or close to the staff member’s final agency
                    work day.

       D.     Coin Awards

              OYA recognizes and shows appreciation to its staff and volunteers for
              significant work achievements, or ongoing excellent performance or
              service.

              1.    Supervisors, managers, and assistant directors will seek
                    opportunities throughout the year to acknowledge high-quality staff
                    and volunteer performance or service by awarding Coin Awards.

              2.    The staff member’s supervisor, manager, or assistant director, as
                    appropriate, will prepare a letter acknowledging the staff member’s
                    performance and requesting a Coin Award from the Director’s
                    Office.

                    Coin Award request letters for volunteers are prepared by the
                    agency or local volunteer coordinator.

              3.    A management staff member will present the Coin Award and
                    acknowledgement letter to the recipient.




Page 3 of 6          I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition           Effective: 04/26/2024
       E.     Director’s Outstanding Service Awards (Director’s Award) for OYA Staff

              1.    Each December, the OYA director may formally recognize a staff
                    member or a team of staff who exhibit outstanding and exemplary
                    service based on the following criteria:

                    a)      Outstanding performance that demonstrates the mission,
                            vision, and core values of OYA;

                    b)      Outstanding performance in a special work project or
                            operation that brought honor or distinction to the agency;

                    c)      Outstanding performance that resulted in significantly
                            enhancing staff or youth safety or wellness;

                    d)      Outstanding performance that was transformative, or made a
                            significant positive impact; or

                    e)      Outstanding performance that resulted in substantial agency
                            cost savings.

              2.    Nomination Process

                    a)      The Director’s Office will facilitate the nomination process.

                    b)      The Communications Office must distribute nomination
                            forms (YA 1002) to all staff and agency advisory committee
                            members via e-mail no later than September 30 of each
                            year.

                            An October 31 nomination deadline will be announced with
                            the form distribution.

                            (1)     Any staff member may nominate an individual or team
                                    for an award.

                            (2)     Members of the public and stakeholders may
                                    nominate an individual or team for an award.

                            (3)     Nominations may be submitted via e-mail or online
                                    form to the deputy director.

                            (4)     Nominations must be received no later than
                                    October 31.

              3.    Selection Process

                    a)      The deputy director will:

                            (1)     Review the nominations for completeness;


Page 4 of 6          I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition           Effective: 04/26/2024
                           (2)     Check with the Human Resources Office and direct
                                   supervisor as appropriate;

                           (3)     Solicit recommendations from Executive Team; and

                           (4)     Forward the nominations and recommendations to the
                                   director for recipient selection.

                    b)     The director must select the award recipient(s) no later than
                           November 30.

                    c)     The deputy director or designee will track demographics,
                           including race, gender, department, worksite, and years of
                           service of award recipients for at least the last five years.

              4.    Acknowledgement of Nominees and Awards Recognition

                    a)     All nominees will receive a certificate acknowledging their
                           nominations.

                    b)     Director’s Awards may be presented to recipients at Central
                           Office, at the recipient’s workplace, at a Joint Management
                           Team meeting, or during an online forum.

                           (1)     Recipients may receive a plaque from the director or
                                   designee memorializing their outstanding service.

                           (2)     The names of the recipients of the Director’s Award
                                   will be shared with the entire agency.

       F.     Volunteer of the Year Award

              1.    Each December, the director may formally recognize an active
                    volunteer who exhibits outstanding and exemplary service. This
                    award is optional, and not required to be given annually. Awards
                    will be given based on the following criteria:

                    a)     Outstanding performance that demonstrates the mission,
                           vision, and core values of OYA;

                    b)     Exemplifies mission effectiveness, impact on youth, role
                           modeling, enthusiasm, and outstanding performance;

                    c)     Must be an active volunteer at the time of nomination; and

                    d)     Dependability, hours, and length of service may also be
                           considered.

              2.    Nomination Process

                    The Director’s Office will facilitate the nomination process.

Page 5 of 6         I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition           Effective: 04/26/2024
                   a)     The Communications Office will distribute nomination forms
                          to all staff, agency advisory committee members, and
                          volunteers via email no later than Sept. 30.

                          An Oct. 31 nomination deadline will be announced with the
                          form distribution.

                   b)     Any staff member or youth may nominate an individual, an
                          organization, or a group for an award.

                   c)     Nominations must be received no later than Oct. 31.

              3.   Selection Process

                   a)     The deputy director must:

                          (1)     Review the nominations for completeness;

                          (2)     Check with the OYA volunteer program manager or
                                  the volunteer coordinator or supervisor at the OYA
                                  site where the volunteer serves for input; and

                          (3)     Forward the nominations and recommendations to the
                                  director for recipient selection.

                   b)     The director must select the award recipient(s) no later than
                          November 30.

              4.   Acknowledgement of Nominees and Awards Recognition

                   a)     All nominees must receive a certificate acknowledging their
                          nominations.

                   b)     Awards may be presented to recipients at the volunteer’s
                          service site or at a Joint Management Team meeting.

                   c)     Recipients may receive a plaque or other gift from the
                          director or designee memorializing their outstanding service.

                   d)     OYA may share the award recipient(s) name(s) with the
                          entire agency, with the recipient(s) permission.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 6 of 6        I-D-3.7 Staff and Volunteer Recognition          Effective: 04/26/2024
