                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)

 Subject:
 Recreational Activities in Substitute Care Placements
 Section – Policy Number:                     Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                       Review:
 A: General Administration – 3.1          III-A.3.1 (05/12) 05/29/2019
                                                                          07/03/2025
                                          III-A-3.1 (07/11)
                                          III-E-2.1 (11/04)
 Related              OAR Chapter 416, Division 500 (Recreational Activities for
 Standards             Adjudicated Youth in Substitute Care Placements)
 and                  OYA policy: I-A-8.0 (Exercise and Delegation of Legal Custodian
 References:           and Guardianship Authority)
                      OYA form: YA 3080 (Recreational Activity Risk Assessment)
                       YA 3081 (Consent for OYA Youth to Participate in Recreational
                       Activity)
 Related              None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                                Approved:

 Community Services Assistant
 Director                                     ________________________
                                              Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides standards for OYA Community Services staff when
       reviewing youth recreational activities in the community.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Recreation: Any play or leisure activity in which youth participate, either
       structured or unstructured. Recreation activities are intended to refresh, offer
       sport or pastime. Recreation is all those things that a person or group chooses to
       do in order to make leisure time more interesting, more enjoyable, and more
       personally satisfying.

       Substitute care placements: Any of the out-of-home care and treatment
       programs authorized by OYA to serve youth in OYA custody, including
       contracted residential programs and certified foster homes. Substitute care
       placements exclude OYA’s close-custody facilities.

       Substitute care providers: Persons authorized by OYA through contract or
       other written agreement to provide supervision and care for youth on parole or
       probation status in the community. Such persons include, but are not limited to,
       contracted residential providers and certified foster parents (including respite
       providers).
Page 1 of 4     III-A-3.1 Recreational Activities in Substitute Care Placements    Effective: 05/29/2019
III.     POLICY:

         OYA recognizes recreational activities provide youth positive reinforcement and
         healthy prosocial alternatives to boredom and illegal behavior.

         Recreation develops concepts of cooperation, sportsmanship, and community
         connection. Purposeful youth recreational activities can develop positive
         physical, cognitive, social, and emotional skills.

         OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
Added
7/6/23   initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable and inclusive
         environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
         bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
         represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
         system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
         it perpetuates. OYA expects its substitute care providers to seek and engage in
         recreational activities that support a youth’s cultural identity.

IV.      GENERAL STANDARDS:

         A.     Activity Approval Process

                1.     The approval process outlined below is required only for those
                       youth recreational activities that:

                       a)      Require a moderate to high level of technical expertise to
                               perform safely;

                       b)      Present environmental hazards; or

                       c)      Require or recommend special certification or training (e.g.,
                               whitewater rafting, rock climbing, Ropes courses, recreating
                               on or in any body of water where a certified lifeguard is not
                               present and on duty, backpacking, mountain climbing).

                2.     Foster Home Placements

                       a)      The foster parents, foster care certifier, and youth must
                               review and sign a completed OYA Recreational Activity Risk
                               Assessment (YA 3080) form.

                       b)      OYA staff must notify the foster care certifier of any concerns
                               with the activity.

                       c)      The original signed YA 3080 must be retained in the master
                               foster home file.

                               The foster care certifier must send a copy of the signed
                               YA 3080 to the youth’s juvenile parole/probation officer
                               (JPPO).



Page 2 of 4     III-A-3.1 Recreational Activities in Substitute Care Placements   Effective: 05/29/2019
                     d)      The youth’s JPPO, and parent/guardian (if available), must
                             review and sign a completed Consent for OYA Youth to
                             Participate in Recreational Activity (YA 3081) form.

                     e)      The JPPO must retain the original YA 3081 in the youth’s
                             file.

                             Copies must be sent to the foster parents and foster care
                             certifier.

              3.     Substitute Care Program Placements

                     a)      Program staff and Community Resources Unit staff must
                             sign a completed YA 3080.

                     b)      OYA staff must notify the Community Resources Unit liaison
                             of any concerns with the activity.

                     c)      Community Resources Unit staff must send a copy of the
                             signed YA 3080 to the residential program for individual
                             youth signature and distribution to the JPPO(s).

                             The original YA 3080 signed by Community Resources Unit
                             staff (without individual youth signatures) will be retained by
                             the Community Resources Unit.

                     d)      The youth’s JPPO, and parent/guardian (if available), must
                             sign a completed YA 3081.

                     e)      The JPPO must retain the original YA 3081 in the youth’s
                             file.

                             Copies must be sent to the substitute care program.

              4.     The JPPO may determine whether subsequent approval via a
                     YA 3081 is necessary for an identical recreational activity for the
                     same youth when the youth does not present any higher level of
                     risk, and is living in the same substitute care placement.

              5.     Community Resources Unit staff may determine whether
                     subsequent approval via YA 3080 is necessary for a substitute care
                     program planning an identical recreational activity when the youth
                     do not present any higher level of risk.

              6.     The foster care certifier may determine whether subsequent
                     approval via a YA 3080 is necessary for a foster home planning an
                     identical recreational activity for the same youth or for youth who do
                     not present a higher level of risk.

       B.     Restrictions



Page 3 of 4   III-A-3.1 Recreational Activities in Substitute Care Placements   Effective: 05/29/2019
              1.     Youth travel outside of Oregon for recreational purposes must be
                     reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

                     a)      The Community Services assistant director must review
                             every request for youth travel to another state for
                             recreational purposes and approve or deny the request.

                     b)      Staff will ensure interstate compact agreements are followed
                             when necessary.

              2.     Youth in a substitute care placement may not participate in hunting
                     activities. No exceptions may be made to this standard.

       C.     Release of liability form signatures

              1.     Youth age 18 or older may sign release of liability forms for their
                     participation in recreational activities.

              2.     Youth under age 18 require their parent/legal guardian’s signature.

              3.     The Community Services assistant director or designee may only
                     sign release of liability forms for youth participation in recreational
                     activities if all the following conditions are met:

                     a)      Parent or legal guardian approval has been attempted and
                             they are not responsive, or uninvolved in the youth’s
                             placement and treatment;

                     b)      The activity supports the youth’s case plan or treatment
                             goals;

                     c)      The OYA Recreational Risk Activity (YA 3080) has been
                             approved by the Community Resources program analyst or
                             Foster Care certifier;

                     d)      The Consent for OYA Youth to Participate in Recreational
                             Activity (YA 3081) has been completed and signed; and

                     e)      The JPPO has documented in JJIS notes all information on
                             items (a) through (d) listed above.

              4.     When the Community Services assistant director or designee signs
                     a release of liability form, a copy of the signed form must be
                     retained in the youth’s case file.

              5.     The Community Services assistant director or designee may not
                     sign release of liability forms if the youth’s parent or legal guardian
                     has communicated they do not approve of the youth’s participation
                     and have declined to sign the release of liability form.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO


Page 4 of 4   III-A-3.1 Recreational Activities in Substitute Care Placements   Effective: 05/29/2019
