                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                   Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)
 Subject:
 Targeted Case Management
 Section – Policy Number:               Supersedes:         Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                              Review:
 A: General Administration – 2.0        III-A-2.0 (03/10) 07/08/2016        07/08/2024
                                        III-E-3.7 (01/96)
 Related             Social Security Act, Title XIX (Grants to States for Medical
 Standards            Assistance Programs)
 and                 Title XXI (State Children’s Health Insurance Program)
 References:         OAR 413-050-0600 through 0670 (Targeted Case Management)
                     DHS Child Welfare Procedure Manual: Chapter 10: Section 1:
                      Targeted Case Management (TCM)
                     OYA forms: YA 3009 - (J) Report to Court
                      YA 3008 - (J) Full Report to Court
                      YA 3027 - (J) Targeted Case Management Service Activity Report
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                          Approved:

 Accounting Manager
                                        ________________________
                                        Fariborz Pakseresht, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy provides guidelines for OYA staff in documenting targeted case
       management (TCM) activities.

       For rules on the Targeted Case Management Program, see OAR 413-050-0600
       (Targeted Case Management).

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Juvenile Justice Information System (JJIS): The Juvenile Justice Information
       System (JJIS) is a statewide-integrated electronic information system designed,
       developed, and implemented to support a continuum of services and shared
       responsibility among all members of the juvenile justice community. In a
       collaborative partnership between the Oregon Youth Authority (OYA) and
       Oregon's county juvenile departments, JJIS is administered by the State of
       Oregon through OYA.




Page 1 of 3                 III-A-2.0 Targeted Case Management            Effective: 07/08/2016
III.   POLICY:

       OYA provides youth comprehensive reformation programs to include arranging
       for and coordinating necessary medical, social, educational, mental health or
       other services. OYA may be reimbursed through the Division of Medical
       Assistance Programs (DMAP), Targeted Case Management Program (TCM) for
       a portion of the personnel cost associated with linking a youth to such services.

       OYA’s TCM “target population” is Medicaid-eligible youth under 21 years old
       residing in foster care or residential treatment settings, or in subsidized
       independent living situations. TCM activities are activities performed by the case
       manager (juvenile parole/probation officer (JPPO)) to assist these youth in
       obtaining necessary services. The TCM activities performed by the JPPO
       include:
       • assessment;
       • case planning;
       • case plan implementation;
       • case plan coordination;
       • case plan reassessment; and
       • arranging for a Medicaid service.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       There are essentially two ways TCM may be documented in OYA. These include
       random documentation of a JPPOs’ work-related activities, and periodic
       completion of a Targeted Case Management Service Activity Report (YA 3027).

       A.     Random moment sampling data

              OYA generates individual inquiries of JPPOs regarding their work-related
              activities during specific timeframes known as “random moment sampling”
              (RMS).

              1.    JPPOs receive RMS inquiries via e-mail messages.

              2.    JPPOs must reply to the e-mail messages describing what work-
                    related activity they were performing during the specified
                    timeframe.

              3.    Central Accounting staff must collect, record, and code the activity
                    reported by the JPPOs.

       B.     Targeted Case Management Service Activity Report

              Disability analysts must periodically document TCM activity on Targeted
              Case Management Service Activity Reports (YA 3027).

              1.    JPPOs must record youth contacts, consultations, special events,
                    and collateral contacts in the appropriate youth’s JJIS case notes.

                    These contacts may also be documented during case plan reviews.

Page 2 of 3                III-A-2.0 Targeted Case Management         Effective: 07/08/2016
              2.    The assigned disability analyst may review a youth’s JJIS case
                    notes for services that meet TCM eligibility.

              3.    The assigned disability analyst must complete a YA 3027 to
                    document the specific TCM services provided. The disability
                    analyst must also code the TCM service and ensure the information
                    is reflected in the youth’s JJIS eligibility tab.

       C.     The assigned disability analyst must provide an informational packet
              regarding RMS activity to newly-hired JPPOs.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3                III-A-2.0 Targeted Case Management       Effective: 07/08/2016
