                            OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                     Policy Statement
                       Part III – Youth Services (Community)
 Subject:
 Field Custody and Use of Detention/Jail
 Section – Policy Number:                   Supersedes:            Effective Date:   Date of Last
                                                                                     Review:
 C: Case Planning and Review –          III-C-1.1 (10/21) 01/22/2024
                                                                          01/22/2026
 1.1                                    III-C-1.1 (8/13)
                                        III-C-1.1 (7/11)
                                        II-C-1.4 (7/98)
 Related             ORS 419C.080 Custody; when authorized
 Standards           ORS 419C.145 Preadjudication detention; grounds
 and                 ORS 419C.453 Detention; when authorized
 References:         ORS 420.910 Arrest and detention of escaped, absent or paroled
                      adjudicated youths
                     ORS 420.915 Procedure upon apprehension of escapee,
                      absentee or parole violator rules
                     OAR 416-300 Parole and Revocations
                     OYA policy: III-A-8.0 Use of Physical Intervention and Restraints
                      in the Community
                      III-D-2.1 Youth Transports and Escorts in the Community
 Related             None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                              Approved:

 Community Services Assistant               ____________________
 Director                                   Joseph O’Leary, Director


I.     PURPOSE:

       The policy provides OYA field staff directives on when and how a youth on OYA
       community supervision may be taken into custody by OYA staff and when use of
       detention/jail may be appropriate.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       Peace officer: Any sheriff, constable, marshal, or the deputy of any such officer,
       any member of the state police or any member of the police force of any city.
       (ORS 420.905)

III.   POLICY:

       OYA has identified diversity, equity and inclusion as an agency priority and
       initiative, with a goal to build a respectful, diverse, equitable, and inclusive
       environment for youth and staff that is free from harassment, discrimination and
Page 1 of 3           III-C-1.1 Field Custody and Use of Detention/Jail        Effective: 01/22/2024
       bias. Data shows youth of color and LGBTQ+ youth are disproportionately
       represented in the juvenile justice system. While OYA is only one part of that
       system, it plays a critical role in addressing the historical and systemic inequities
       it perpetuates. Placing a youth in custody can be traumatizing for the youth,
       particularly for youth of color due to historical racial trauma, and therefore must
       only be done in accordance with OYA policy.

       Taking a youth into custody is comparable to arresting an adult and may pose a
       risk to the youth and staff involved. For this reason, standardized measures must
       be followed to safely execute the custody process.

       The superintendent/camp director of the youth correction facility from which a
       youth is on parole (or the superintendent’s/camp director’s authorized
       representative) may order the “arrest and detention” of the youth as described in
       ORS 420.910. When this occurs, a juvenile parole/probation officer or juvenile
       parole/probation assistant may take the youth into custody.

       OYA staff may take a youth on OYA probation into custody without a peace
       officer’s assistance if the juvenile court has authorized OYA staff to do so.

       Once the authority to take a youth into custody is verified or obtained, the
       process for initiating custody must comply with this policy. All field staff and field
       supervisors whose duties include taking youth into custody are required to
       complete physical intervention and restraint training provided by the OYA
       Training Academy.

       Any use of physical intervention and restraint or restraint device must follow OYA
       policy III-A-8.0 Use of Physical Intervention and Restraint in the Community. Any
       transport of a youth must comply with OYA policy III-D-2.1 Youth Transports and
       Escorts in the Community.

IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     Field supervisors must ensure appropriate field staff have
              successfully completed physical intervention and restraint training
              offered by the OYA Training Academy.

       B.     Staff must have supervisory approval prior to taking a youth into
              custody.

       C.     Staff must use verbal intervention skills as the primary means of
              encouraging a youth to cooperate with the custody process.

       D.     Staff may only take a youth into custody in a controlled environment
              (e.g., OYA field office, treatment provider’s office, school principal’s
              office, foster home), not in a public area.

       E.     The following people must be involved in the custody process:

              1.     At least two OYA staff;


Page 2 of 3          III-C-1.1 Field Custody and Use of Detention/Jail   Effective: 01/22/2024
              2.     One OYA staff member and a contracted provider; or

              3.     One OYA staff member and law enforcement.

       F.     Staff must request law enforcement assistance if:

              1.     The youth has a history of assaultive behavior;

              2.     It is anticipated that force may be necessary to initiate
                     custody (e.g., youth was non-compliant in the past; youth
                     has made verbal threats; youth is aware of pending legal
                     action); or

              3.     The youth becomes non-compliant during any time of the
                     custody process.

       G.     Only compliance techniques taught by the OYA Training Academy
              are authorized for use on youth. (See OYA policy III-A-8.0 Use of
              Physical Intervention and Restraints in the Community.)

       H.     During the entire custody process, staff must continuously assess
              their own, the youth’s, and the public’s level of safety and must
              discontinue the custody process if safety is threatened.

V.     USE OF DETENTION/JAIL

       OYA supports the use of detention/jail with youth, in accordance with
       Oregon laws, to maintain public safety and as a behavioral intervention
       when all other intervention options have failed. When a youth is not
       exhibiting violent or aggressive behavior (e.g., poses a physical risk or has
       made verbal threats to harm others or self), OYA staff must attempt other
       behavioral intervention options (e.g., additional contact, removal of
       privileges, different placement) prior to using detention/jail. If behavioral
       intervention options are not appropriate to address the youth’s situation
       (e.g., termination from community placement), immediate use of
       detention/jail may be warranted.

       A.     Staff must obtain supervisor approval before placing a youth in
              detention/jail or recommending detention/jail to the court.

              In emergent circumstances, the field officer-of-the day or chief of
              parole/probation operations may approve the use of detention/jail.

       B.     Staff must be aware of and mitigate any potential bias they may
              have when recommending or using detention/jail.

       C.     Staff must follow local county protocol for accessing detention/jail.

VI.    LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO



Page 3 of 3          III-C-1.1 Field Custody and Use of Detention/Jail   Effective: 01/22/2024
