                             OREGON YOUTH AUTHORITY
                                       Policy Statement
                          Part II – Youth Services (Facilities)
 Subject:
 Youth Tattoo Removal Service - Facility
 Section – Policy Number:                    Supersedes:          Effective Date:   Date of Last
 E: Programming – 2.3                      II-E-2.3 (12/17) 10/26/2023     Review:
                                           II-E-2.3 (3/07)                 10/26/2025
                                           II-E-2.3 (11/96)
 Related              ORS 419C.550 (Duties and Authority)
 Standards            OYA policy: I-A-8.0 (Exercise and Delegation of Legal Custodian
 and                   and Guardianship Authority)
 References:           II-A-3.1 (Facility Youth Transports and Escorted Trips)
                      OYA forms: YA 1510 (Tattoo Removal Service Application)
                       YA 1511 (Consent for Tattoo Removal)
 Related              None
 Procedures:
 Policy Owner:                               Approved:

 Office of Inclusion and Intercultural
 Relations Director                          ________________________
                                             Joseph O’Leary, Director

I.     PURPOSE:

       This policy establishes a referral process for youth in close-custody facilities to
       use tattoo removal services located within a close-custody facility.

II.    POLICY DEFINITIONS:

       None.

III.   POLICY:

       OYA strives to offer specific youth services to foster positive youth development.
       Youth in OYA custody may have tattoos that hinder their successes in the
       community. Public perception of certain tattoos may impede youth from
       associating with positive peer groups, limit opportunities for employment, or delay
       disassociation from previous negative/unlawful behavior.

       Tattoo removal services are available to eligible youth to assist them in achieving
       their reformation goals and promote positive social change. These services are
       performed by volunteer physicians using an aesthetic laser, or by other means
       determined by the treating physician.




Page 1 of 3    II-E-2.3 Youth Tattoo Removal Service - Facility       Effective: 10/26/2023
IV.    GENERAL STANDARDS:

       A.     The Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations director oversees youth
              tattoo removal services.

       B.     The Office of Inclusion and Intercultural Relations director has designated
              a tattoo removal coordinator to coordinate tattoo removal services.

       C.     The tattoo removal coordinator’s duties include:

              1.      Verifying volunteer physicians are certified to perform tattoo
                      removal services;

              2.      Verifying volunteer nurses and medical assistants have a current,
                      active license or certification;

              3.      Ensuring youth meet the criteria (listed below) to participate in
                      tattoo removal services;

              4.      Identifying areas where tattoo removal services are performed;

              5.      Identifying areas to store tattoo removal lasers and supplies; and

              6.      Preparing youth for the laser procedure.

       D.     The tattoo removal coordinator must ensure youth meet the below criteria
              to participate in tattoo removal services.

              1.      The youth has a tattoo(s) which may impede successful
                      rehabilitation.

              2.      The youth’s multidisciplinary team (MDT) recommends participation
                      in tattoo removal services.

              3.      The youth can establish commitment to disassociate from antisocial
                      and criminal groups and activities by completing an application that
                      documents the below information.

                      a)      Successful participation in rehabilitative activity as reported
                              by a case manager. Such activity includes participation in
                              any OYA-approved treatment program.

                      b)      An understanding of how the youth’s tattoo(s) may associate
                              the youth with antisocial or criminal groups or activity, and
                              how tattoo removal will affect the youth’s life.

                      c)      A signed statement of intent to disassociate from antisocial
                              and criminal culture.

                      d)      A willingness to support tattoo removal procedures by
                              attending scheduled treatment appointments.


Page 2 of 3   II-E-2.3 Youth Tattoo Removal Service - Facility    Effective: 10/26/2023
       E.     Youth application for tattoo removal services

              1.      Youth participation in tattoo removal services is voluntary.

              2.      Designated facility staff must ensure youth interested in receiving
                      tattoo removal services complete a Tattoo Removal Service
                      Application (form YA 1510). The completed form must be forwarded
                      to the tattoo removal coordinator for review.

              3.      Staff must obtain written consent from each youth prior to their
                      participation in tattoo removal services by having youth complete a
                      Consent for Tattoo Removal (form YA 1511).

                      a)      For youth under 15 years of age, facility staff must also
                              obtain the youth’s parent’s or legal guardian’s consent prior
                              to participation in tattoo removal services.

                      b)      If OYA is the guardian, consent authority is exercised only by
                              the superintendent or camp director of the facility where the
                              youth is placed.

       F.     Staff must follow OYA policy II-A-3.1 Youth Transports and Escorted Trips
              when transporting youth from one facility to another for tattoo removal
              services.

       G.     Designated facility staff must ensure youth who are transported into the
              facility to receive tattoo removal services have no contact with youth
              regularly housed at that facility.

       H.     Staff must disqualify youth who obtain additional tattoos which may
              impede their successful rehabilitation after receiving tattoo removal
              services from further tattoo removal services.

       I.     Designated staff must document tattoo removal services received in the
              youth’s JJIS notes.

V.     LOCAL OPERATING PROTOCOL REQUIRED: NO




Page 3 of 3   II-E-2.3 Youth Tattoo Removal Service - Facility   Effective: 10/26/2023
